

601 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East: Rumania;
The Old Guard in a New Government

BYLINE: By DAVID BINDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUCHAREST, Rumania, Jan. 25

 BODY:
One month after Nicolae Ceausescu and his wife were executed as despots, this nation is lurching awkwardly under the influence of those who finally overthrew the old regime as well as those who had helped sustain it in power for 24 years.
The remnants of the old guard are still around, and many thousands of them still hold the positions they had under the Ceausescus or have received new appointments.
Among these Ceausescu holdovers, as disclosed this week by the boldest Bucharest daily, Romania Libera, are officials of the Foreign Ministry who took part in a meeting last March 15 condemning a former colleague, Mircea Raceanu, as a spy and traitor before he was even tried.
Mr. Raceanu, the Deputy Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs, was arrested as an opponent of the Government a year ago, apparently on direct orders from President Ceausescu, and condemned to death by a secret military tribunal in July. He was released from solitary confinement on death row at Rahova prison on Dec. 23, the day after the Ceausescu Government toppled. 
 
Embarrassing Transcript
On Sunday, Romania Libera published an excerpt of the transcript of the March meeting at which Constantin Ene, then and now the ministry's Director of Foreign Economic Relations, called for ''the maximum penalty under the law'' to be applied to Mr. Raceanu. He was joined by Dumitru Stanescu, then and now Director of African Affairs, who said, ''I indignantly condemn the act of treason'' of his colleague; by Moise Petre, Director of Protocol, who demanded ''no clemency,'' and by Ion Mielcioiu, Director of Asian and Middle East Affairs, who declared, ''I condemn these grave acts.''
The newspaper promised to continue printing excerpts of the transcript. But the next day, it was ordered by Silviu Brucan, a senior member of the governing Council of National Salvation, to cease because of the embarrassment it was causing at the Foreign Ministry. The council replaced the Ceausescu Government on Dec. 22. Romania Libera defied Mr. Brucan and resumed publishing the account today.
''There is still censorship of the press, and also of radio and television,'' Mr. Raceanu remarked today. ''It is not over.''
Another instance of the authoritarian manner in which the council is conducting its affairs is the demand by Andrei Plesu, a historian and art critic who is a member of the council, that the publication Cinema get rid of four of its chief editors and instead accept six outsiders of his choice. The reporters, critics and editors of Cinema are protesting vigorously that this is not the democratic way to do things.
 
New Post for a Ceausescu Official
An example of a new appointment of a Ceausescu official is that of Virgil Constantinescu, the newly designated Rumanian Ambassador to Washington. In a previous post, Mr. Constantinescu served in the Ceausescu Government's Department of Cults, which supervised religious organizations.
There, according to a knowledgeable Rumanian source, he served as an informer for the Securitate, the state security police, which has been officially dissolved by the new Government. For that matter, a huge number of Securitate officers remain on the job at lower levels, Rumanian officials said in interviews.
Throughout this month, members of the Securitate's elite troops who kept fighting the popular insurgency even after President Ceausescu and his wife, Elena, were captured, sentenced and executed have kept surfacing from their hiding places, mostly underground, and turning themselves in.
In the same period, many Rumanians who have spoken out against the Ceausescu Government and against the presence of Communists in the new provisional Government have received anonymous death threats on the telephone and in their mailboxes. A widely distributed anonymous leaflet specifically threatens death to outspoken people on Friday, which would have been Mr. Ceausescu's 72d birthday.
Despite these continuing threats and their own fears, thousands of Rumanians have gone into the streets in Bucharest and in Timisoara, the western city where the national uprising started, to demonstrate in favor of democracy and, on Wednesday in the capital, against the political plans of the Council of National Salvation.
 
A Clumsy Announcement
In a particularly clumsy way, the council first declared five days ago that it intended to field its own candidates in spring elections, then announced the decision to do so on Wednesday at a press conference for foreign journalists. Mr. Brucan, of the council's 11-member executive board, even chastised a Rumanian journalist for daring to ask a question about the decision at the conference. Only that night did Ion Iliescu, the president of the council, inform the nation about the action on Rumanian television.
Affronted not only by the decision itself but the manner in which it was conveyed, leaders of the three main political parties that have sprung up since December joined in demanding that the provisional leaders step down immediately and give way to a caretaker government. These political organizations are the National Peasants Party, the National Liberal Party and the Social Democratic Party of Rumania.
The council's decision also affronted members of the council itself, one of whom, Prof. Doina Cornea, a brave dissident under the Ceausescus, immediately resigned. Ana Blandiana, a prominent poet, who is still in the council, published a commentary in Romania Libera today saying she was offended by the manner in which the decision was made.
On Wednesday, thousands of people, many of them students, suddenly gathered on University Square to march in two separate demonstrations protesting the council's decision.
 
Council Bans Demonstrations
This prompted the council to issue a fresh decree on Wednesday night, banning spontaneous demonstrations, demanding 48 hours' notice for any demonstration, confining demonstrations in the capital to four city parks or agreed street routes, and threatening violators with fines and up to 30 days in jail. A small group of young people defied the ban this afternoon by marching on Nicolae Balcescu Boulevard this afternoon and shouting anti-council slogans. A big demonstration downtown is scheduled for Sunday in defiance of the ban as well. And Nicolae Costel, head of the small Free Democratic Party, said there would be strikes in the cities of Sibiu, Brasov and Timisoara at the same time.
The guiding force of the council appears to be Mr. Brucan, a veteran Communist who opposed Mr. Ceausescu publicly from 1987 onward. He had said on Jan. 1 that the council should enter Rumanian politics and persuaded the council to accept this proposal 23 days later. He also played a central role in reversing the council's plan to hold a referendum on banning the already defunct Communist Party and reviving the death penalty.
Despite the efforts of Mr. Brucan, or perhaps because of them, Rumania seems to be only marginally governable at this stage and, in the case of Timisoara, hardly governable at all. From Dec. 22 to Jan. 12, Timisoara province was run by Lorin Fortuna, a former Communist Party official. He was replaced by Maj. Gen. Gheorghe Popescu, who took over until Jan. 20, when he, too, stepped down. Since then the province and city have been in the hands of a murky group of self-appointed people who call themselves the Commission of Competents and whose main task is to prepare local elections.
There are demonstrators every day in the streets of Timisoara. ''It is chaos,'' said Gabrela Paulet, a 22-year-old physics and chemistry teacher from Timisoara who arrived in Bucharest this morning.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters outside Victoria Palace in Bucharest heckling a representative of the interim government late Wednesday as he announced a new policy limiting mass demonstrations. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (55%); 

COMPANY: CEAUSESCU GOVERNMENT'S DEPARTMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUMANIA

SUBJECT: TRANSCRIPTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TREASON (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); ESPIONAGE (74%); CENSORSHIP (67%); ARRESTS (54%); MILITARY COURTS (53%); 

PERSON: BINDER, DAVID; CEAUSESCU, NICOLAE (PRES); RACEANU, MIRCEA NICOLAE CEAUSESCU (94%); 



602 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
Five of the Financiers Investing in Hungary

 BODY:

Andrew Sarlos
Andrew Sarlos, a Toronto investment manager who fled Hungary in 1956, has been among the leaders of the movement to invest in Eastern Europe. In 1989, he joined American financiers in creating an $80 million fund for Hungarian investment, the largest capital pool in the country.
In an interview last year with a Canadian newspaper, he said that of the Eastern European countries, ''Hungary is probably the most advanced in its transition politically.''
Citing the experiences of McDonald's and Citibank, he said that Western businesses could earn a high rate of return in Hungary. The main role of the West, he said, is to provide capital and sophisticated management. 
 
Melvin Simon
Along with his brother, Herbert, Melvin Simon owns the nation's largest mall development corporation, Melvin & Associates. Forbes magazine estimates that the corporation is worth $900 million. Melvin Simon, 62, owns two-thirds; Herbert Simon, 54, owns the other third. Melvin Simon is also a co-owner of the Indiana Pacers professional basketball team, which he purchased in 1983.
Mr. Simon, the son of a tailor, was born in Brooklyn and attended City College of New York. The winner of a Horatio Alger award, he once took a job selling encyclopedias in Indianapolis to augment his Army pay. He founded Melvin & Associates in 1960.
The company is estimated to own 60 million square feet of mall space and to manage another 13 million. In the 1970's, Simon produced several Hollywood films, including ''Love at First Bite.''
 
Albert Reichmann
Albert Reichmann is one of three Reichmann brothers controlling Olympia & York Development Ltd., which Business Week magazine recently called ''the richest and most powerful real estate developer in the world.'' Based in Toronto, the privately held company controls a worldwide real estate empire worth an estimated $25 billion, including the World Financial Center in New York.
The brothers - Albert, 60, Paul, 59, and Ralph, 56 - are three of six children born to a Hungarian couple who fled Europe at the beginning of World War II. The family settled in Tangier, where the father became a successful currency trader and the mother worked to smuggle Spanish passports to Jews trying to flee Hungary. Ralph Reichmann moved to Toronto in 1956, and the family followed in stages.
The Reichmanns have contributed $65 million for a civic center in Jerusalem and have pressed the Soviet Union to allow more Jews to emigrate. Olympia & York is scheduled to begin work this year on a $210 million, 60-story office tower that will be Moscow's tallest.
''The Jewish population is the reason I'm interested in Hungary and the Soviet Union,'' Albert Reichmann recently told Business Week.
 
R. Mark Palmer
Mr. Palmer, 48, is a career Foreign Service officer who was appointed Ambassador to Hungary in 1985. At the time of his appointment, he had spent three years as a Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, heading up sections on Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.
Earlier in his career, Mr. Palmer served as chief speechwriter for two Secretaries of State, William P. Rogers and Henry A. Kissinger. He served in Moscow from 1968 to 1971 and has also worked in India and Yugoslavia.
Mr. Palmer had hoped to be named an Assistant Secretary of State in the Bush Administration. He is known to have close ties with both Communists opposition members in Hungary. He has been an outspoken advocate of free enterprise and the privatization of the Hungarian economy.
 
Ronald S. Lauder
An heir to the Estee Lauder cosmetics fortune, Mr. Lauder recently spent more than $12 million on an unsuccessful race for Mayor of New York. He lost the Republican primary to Rudolph W. Guiliani, whom he had criticized in highly negative campaign ads.
In his campaign, conducted without public funds, Mr. Lauder called for lower taxes to stimulate business growth. He urged private companies to provide many of the services now offered by the city.
Largely in return for his work as finance chairman for the New York Republican Party, Mr. Lauder was appointed a Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense in 1983. In 1986, he was sent to Austria as Ambassador. Mr. Lauder is 45 years old.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (96%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); INDIANA PACERS (55%); INDIANA PACERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNGARY

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS REAL ESTATE (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (84%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); BASKETBALL (72%); WORKING MOTHERS (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (70%); WORLD WAR II (65%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (65%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (65%); SMUGGLING (60%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (60%); FILM (50%); 

PERSON: SARLOS, ANDREW; SARLOS, ANDREW (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); SIMON, MELVIN; SIMON, MELVIN (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); REICHMANN, ALBERT; REICHMANN, ALBERT (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); PALMER, R MARK (AMB); PALMER, R MARK (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); LAUDER, RONALD S; LAUDER, RONALD S (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) ALBERT REICHMANN (81%); RONALD S LAUDER (78%); HERBERT SIMON (71%); R MARK PALMER (69%); ANDREW SARLOS (58%); 



603 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East: Tokyo;
Japanese Leader's Europe Trip Missed Mark

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu returned from a trip to Poland, Hungary and Western Europe last week saying Japan had lived up to its new international responsibilities as an economic superpower by offering nearly $2 billion in financial aid to support democracy in Eastern Europe.
But a decidedly different light was shed on Japan's view of its role in the world when Government, banking and business leaders here responded to Mr. Kaifu's trip. The people who will have to give substance to the Prime Minister's initiatives generally criticized them as geographically and politically misguided. They still found it hard to support a program that would bring no tangible benefit to Japan. 
''Why he had to go to Eastern Europe is beyond me, since it is not clear what we get from it'' in business terms, one of Japan's top bankers said in a surprisingly angry denunciation. He continued: ''In the long run, China is much more attractive. Why does Japan have to wait on the U.S. before lifting sanctions?''
The executive, who asked not to be identified, expressed the view that to establish an independent stance in international affairs, Japan would have been better off ending its freeze on relations with China after the military crackdown last June and permitting new economic programs to move ahead with its Asian neighbor - even if the United States did not approve.
 
'Its Future Is Not So Bright'
The banker's outburst has been repeated all over Tokyo. What has been noteworthy is how consistently those leaders turned the situation into an economic equation, which they saw as tilted decidedly away from Eastern Europe and toward China, where Japan enjoys many economic advantages that it is nervous about losing.
The countries of Eastern Europe ''have changed politically; they have not necessarily changed economically yet,'' said Noboru Hatakeyama, head of the international trade policy bureau of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, offering that important ministry's lukewarm reception to the visit.
''Down the road, its future is not so bright,'' he said. ''Investing in Asian countries might be better than investment in Eastern European countries.''
Kazuo Nakazawa, a managing director of Keidanren, the trade group representing Japan's largest corporations, said, ''We have more to lose by staying out of China that we have to gain in Eastern Europe.''
 
Image as a Statesman
The flow of news since the visit demonstrated that inclination even more clearly. The only big announcement relating to Eastern Europe recently was that Suzuki Motors is to build an auto plant in Hungary.
There is still a recognition that doing business in China is frought with difficulties and contracts between Japanese trading houses and China were down about 20 percent last year.
Nonetheless, a group of Japanese banks have said they would permit China to draw $500 million of a large loan arranged several years ago. In the first technology deal with China since June, Mitsui & Company agreed to sell China a plant to help make television tubes and switches. The Kisho Corporation, a maker of tape recorders and audio equipment, plans to open a new factory in Guangdong Province next month. And Nippon Steel said it had agreed to provide China the technology to build high-grade silicon steel, used in consumer electronics products.
Many political commentators have agreed that the Prime Minister's trip was motivated largely by domestic political concerns, which is often the case for foreign visits by national leaders. Mr. Kaifu, they have said, was trying to establish an image as a statesman in advance of parliamentary elections, to be held on Feb. 18. The lower house of Parliament was dissolved on Wednesday to open way for the elections.
 
Program for Use of Aid
But of most concern to business leaders involved in international affairs was that Mr. Kaifu passed up an opportunity to articulate a vision for the world and state Japan's case for the development of capitalism in Eastern Europe.
Shijuro Ogata, deputy governor of the Government-owned Japan Development Bank and former deputy governor for international relations at the Bank of Japan, described the visit as a watershed because Japan occupied center stage of a major international development. But he was critical of the fact that Mr. Kaifu did not present a clear program for use of the aid.
''We are willing to give money, but not ideas or leadership,'' Mr. Ogata said. ''The Government isn't ready to produce ideas, and that is what people are criticizing.''
Some have also expressed concern that aid to Eastern Europe will just contribute to the development of a large European economic bloc that excludes Japan. Japan has not had strong ties with the region in the past, and economic assistance would not be likely to build such ties in the future, in that view.
Keidanren has agreed to sponsor visits by hundreds of Eastern European officials to Japan to learn about the country's business methods. The aim, an official said, would be to begin building those ties.
''We want them to understand us before we just give over money,'' said Hiroya Ichikawa, deputy director of the international cooperation department at the Keidanren. But he held out little hope, given the realities of economic competition.
''We are close to China,'' Mr. Ichikawa said. ''They understand us. Perhaps it would be more useful for Japan to be more of an actor there.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); EUROPE (97%); CHINA (95%); HUNGARY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); POLAND (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST; JAPAN

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; KAIFU, TOSHIKI (PRIME MIN) KAIFU TOSHIKI (59%); 



604 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Cuts in Military Threaten Big Bases

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney is considering closing some of the nation's largest military bases and making deep cuts in the National Guard and reserves of virtually every state, Administration and Congressional officials said today.
The list includes the possible closing of the Army's base at Fort Ord, Calif., and Navy bases in the San Francisco Bay area as well as the Philadelphia Navy Yard. Among the bases and units being considered for major reductions are the New York Army National Guard's 42d Infantry Division and the Army's base at Fort Hood, Tex.
Fort McClellan in Alabama is also being considered for closure, and the Pentagon is considering large reductions in the 9th Infantry Division at Fort Lewis, Wash., and the 194th Separate Armored Division at Fort Knox, Tenn. 
 
Document to Be Offered
The officials said that Mr. Cheney will tell Congress next week about the possible cutbacks in a document that outlines the military's strategy and plans for the next five years. The changes would come on top of the 86 military bases that Congress agreed to close last year.
Mr. Cheney's document is certain to touch off a furor on Capitol Hill, where each state's delegation stoutly protects its military bases.
The plan appears to be an opening step in his effort to keep control of the budget process, which begins next week when President Bush formally presents to Congress his requests for the 1991 fiscal year. By publicly identifying bases that may be closed, particularly those used by the National Guard and Reserves, Mr. Cheney would put pressure on Congress to either follow his lead or take responsibilty for ducking difficult decisions.
The plan, entitled ''The Structure of U.S. Military Forces in 1995,'' also includes a general discussion of military strategy and an overall approach for deploying American forces on the assumption that Moscow and Washington reach agreement on a pact to reduce conventional forces in Europe.
 
Right to Reject Closings
By law, the Pentagon must formally notify Congress of planned base closings, and the officials emphasized that the Pentagon document was only a proposal to study which bases should be eliminated.
By not making any formal proposals at this time, Mr. Cheney will be able to generate debate without having to submit the six complex assessments of economic, environmental and other consequences that must accompany a formal plan to close bases.
Congress has the right to overturn any base closure that affects 300 civilian jobs or any transfer of troops that affects 1,000 civilian jobs or more than 50 percent of the local work force. Those limits would apply to most of the bases on the list.
Closing a large base also requires environmental studies, which if challenged in court which can lead to years of delay.
 
National Guard Reductions
Mr. Cheney has broad authority to trim the National Guard and reserves, and the document he will give Congress suggests possible reductions in such units across the country. National Guard and reserves have long been popular with politicians because they provide jobs and benefits to many local citizens.
Representative Patricia Schroeder, Democrat of Colorado and chairwoman of the House Armed Services Committee panel on military installations, praised Mr. Cheney's overall proposal today, but disagreed with his plan to cut active duty and reserve forces equally.
''I think deeper cuts must come in active forces and the reserves ought to be strengthened,'' Ms. Schroeder said in a statement. ''Secretary Cheney proposes only modest cuts overseas. I think we should close many more foreign bases.''
She added, ''I want to make sure that no base is being closed for political reasons.''
A Congressional official said the Cheney plan also calls for base closing and troop reductions overseas, but he said that the identities of those bases were being kept secret while American diplomats brief the allies this weekend about the plan.
 
Effects for the Navy
Mr. Cheney's list of possible base closes heavily affects the Navy, the service that suffered the least under the 1989 base closings. Navy officials have felt protected from cuts by the Navy's roles in drug interception and the fact that it is the service responsible for projecting American power throughout the world.
Among the Naval installations that are being considered for possible closure, officials said, are San Francisco's Treasure Island Naval Air Station, the Oakland Naval Supply Center and the Oakland Naval Hospital.
The Long Beach Naval Shipyard is also on the list, as is the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard, which employs 9,000 military and 20,000 civilian workers.
Army bases under consideration for closure include Ford Ord, Calif., home to the 7th Infantry Division, which would be transfered to Fort Lewis, Wash. The division would be sharply reduced from its current level of 14,800 soldiers and 2,300 civilian support workers.
At Fort Lewis, the Pentagon is considering reducing the 9th Infantry to a motorized brigade, a cut of 7,900 soldiers, officials said.
Mr. Cheney's Army list includes a proposal to deactivate the 10,000-man 2d Armored Division at Fort Hood, Tex.
Proposals for possible cuts in the National Guard and Reserves would hit especially hard in the Northeast, officials said.
In New York, for example, the Pentagon would consider cutting 5,000 slots in 1991 and 8,000 more between 1993 and 1994 from the 42nd National Guard.
In Massachusetts, there is a proposal to reduce the 26th Army National Guard Infantry Division by more than 3,000 slots, eliminating the headquarters division and two brigades.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY GUARDIAN (57%); OAKLAND NAVAL SUPPLY CENTER (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GUARD (US)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); RESERVES (MILITARY) ARMED FORCES (91%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); ARMIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); NAVIES (79%); BUDGETS (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (65%); 

PERSON: CHENEY, RICHARD (SEC) DICK CHENEY (90%); 



605 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1698 words

HEADLINE: Washington at Work;
Living With Washington Mayor: Sense of Realism as a Tonic for Rumors

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Last Sunday, after Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr. publicly and tearfully confessed to ''weaknesses'' and prepared to enter a substance abuse clinic, he turned and planted a big kiss on the cheek of his wife, Effi. ''She's just great,'' he said. ''For our family,'' she responded, ''this is just the beginning.'' Then, arm in arm, they departed. There was more to that exchange and departure than met the ear or eye.
By her own account, Effi Barry has never been quite sure where she stands with her husband, whether he does, in fact, think she is great. He has been accused of womanizing almost from the start of their marriage a dozen years ago. While he has never conceded having extramarital affairs, saying only that the relationships have been ''personal,'' Mrs. Barry herself has called him an ''indiscreet street dude.''
 
A 'Beginning'
So when she spoke Sunday of a ''beginning,'' a beginning brought on by the Mayor's arrest on a charge that he used crack that he obtained from a woman described by the police as a former girlfriend, it was perhaps inevitable that Washington would begin speculating once again why Effi Barry did not instead speak of an ''ending,'' and why she had not spoken of one long ago. 
Other than her statement Sunday, she has said nothing publicly about the current situation and has turned aside all requests for interviews. For that matter, she has never said much publicly about her life with Marion Barry except to call him ''indiscreet'' several times and to suggest acidly once that a woman linked to him by the press should get out of town.
Realistically, she has told friends and an occasional interviewer, the wife of a public figure must always be aware that certain kinds of women will be drawn to her husband.
In good part, some of her friends say, it was that realism that led her to be at her husband's side on Sunday in the auditorium of St. Timothy Episcopal Church, next to the Barry home. And it was that realism, the friends suggest, that led her two days earlier to walk side by side with the Mayor into the United States Courthouse here, to see him arraigned like any other common drug suspect.
 
For the Sake of Their Son
There is also something else at work here, those who know Mrs. Barry best say. They do not use the word ''love.'' Rather, they suggest that she continues to endure all the rumors and innuendo about the Mayor, in part because of 9-year-old Christopher Barry, the couple's only child, who in one of the most poignant scenes of the past week was led from his home on the morning of his father's arraignment with a coat over his head.
''Effi is a very strong and determined woman,'' said Peggy Cooper Cafritz, one of Christopher's godmothers, who is a prominent figure in the city's arts world. ''She is determined to create an atmosphere that will allow her child to be raised in the best possible way. She's very aware of all the pressure on black families today. She very much wants to hold this family together.''
Another family friend, Ruby McZier, a Washington lawyer, suggested that Mrs. Barry is able to deal with whatever trauma injects itself into her life because she ''internalizes'' problems. ''I've never seen her fall apart,'' Ms. McZier said. ''She has this ability to put problems on almost a third-party basis.''
Ms. McZier, like many of Mrs. Barry's friends, refused to discuss her further. ''We owe her that protection,'' she said.
In her most candid interview to date about her marriage, Mrs. Barry two years ago told Barbara Harrison, a reporter for WRC-TV, a local station: ''You must be philosophical, and you have to be a realist.''
''There is a caliber of female in this world,'' she continued, ''for whatever her own personal needs might be, who tends to gravitate toward a power figure. It has always been that way and, unfortunately, will continue to be that way.''
She did not elaborate on the nature of those personal needs. But the consequences are often mates who go astray, she said, alluding to revelations of extramarital affairs about any number of Presidents, members of Congress and other public figures over the years.
''This kind of involvement is a necessary nuisance that the wife of a power figure has to deal with,'' she concluded.
And so, there was Effi Barry last Sunday, dealing, gently stroking her husband's hand as he prepared to take the stage and confess to weaknesses of ''body, mind and soul,''
After he had spoken, she took the stage, put herself in the limelight that she normally avoids, and rephrased his message, throwing in words like ''problem'' that he would not use or, for political and legal reasons, could not use. Then, that chore done, she threw in the plug for their marriage, adding to the drama of the moment, leaving the impression that here was a woman who would do whatever she had to do, swallow whatever she had to swallow, to save a job, a man, a family and, indeed, herself.
 
A Striking Figure
Mrs. Barry herself has not been entirely free of rumors and allegations since she arrived in town in the late 1970's and her regal good looks caught the eye of a new City Councilman, Marion Barry.
Tall, angular, given to designer clothes and bright jewelry, she cuts a striking figure: people notice her. And when she shows up at a club or somewhere without the Mayor, as she has done now and again with friends, male and female, the talk starts anew.
The friends say that Mrs. Barry is just relaxing, that there is nothing to be made of the fact that she is not with her husband. She does not respond to the talk for the most part, though when she does she can be tart.
Once she called the city's gossip-mongers ''piranhas, alligators, crocodiles.'' Another time she pointed her finger at an investigative reporter and snapped, ''You're going to hear from me!''
While she herself was drawn to and married a man of power, she has never shown much inclination to seek power or play the role of first lady to its fullest potential.
Except for major occasions, like a State of the City Message by the Mayor or a welcoming ceremony at the White House, she has seldom shown up at official functions with her husband.
She is a member of the Mayor's cabinet, but does not attend all meetings. She works with a number of groups in child care, health, education and the arts, but mostly in the background.
''This is not a woman out to impress a lot of people or to build a very high profile,'' said a former top mayoral aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ''She lets him do his thing and she does her thing. She's very private, very much her own person. They tend to stay in contact through their secretaries.''
Ms. Cafritz said Mrs. Barry likes to be involved in city matters and makes a solid contribution. ''But she prefers to work quietly,'' Ms. Cafritz said. ''She looked at all the hoopla that a lot of other first ladies here and around the country have been involved in and decided she wanted to be substantive, not flashy. She works hard, but she seeks no great publicity.''
 
A Conventional Youth
Born in a modest, racially mixed neighborhood in Toledo, Ohio, Mrs. Barry, now 45 years old, never knew the poverty and racism that scarred and molded her husband from an early age. As a young man, he was one of the shock troops of the civil rights movement, then jumped into the hurly-burly of elective politics.
Her youth was less remarkable, more conventional - a home economics degree from Hampton Institute, an all-black college in Virginia, then on to New York and eventually Washington in search of a future, first as an airline stewardness, then as a Wall Street credit reporter, then as a teacher, model and, finally, city health inspector.
The last job was where Marion Barry found her.
They were married in early 1978, the year Mr. Barry won his first term as Mayor, and Effi Barry almost immediately found herself plunged into the fishbowl ''filled with piranhas, alligators, crocodiles.''
She knew little or nothing about political life or what to expect, and while she eventually learned how to slap a back, smile through her teeth and duck the tough question, she mainly coped by becoming a more private person, more protective of herself, her friends said.
She had always been something of a loner, ever since her youth in Toledo, where she grew up an only child. She simply became more of a loner, in touch with a small group of close protective friends, but otherwise low key, low profile.
In those early years as the Mayor's wife, several controversies broke out around her.
She and Mr. Barry received a discount on the $125,000 loan on their new house, in a mostly black neighborhood on the southeastern edge of the city. When it was disclosed that she sat on the bank's board, the discount was rescinded and she resigned her seat.
When she took a job with an advertising and public relations company that did business with the city, another conflict-of-interest problem loomed. She left the company.
Then she was criticized for accepting a gift of designer clothes from a friend who also happened to be a city lobbyist. And she was criticized for wearing a coat paid for with city money. Eventually the Mayor paid for the coat with his own money, explaining that when a deliquent bill on the coat had come in an aide had mistakenly used city money to settle it.
 
'What About the Wife?'
After a while, those controversies died down and slipped into the background of city politics and gossip. Not so the controversies about the Mayor's personal life.
Mrs. Barry has never been able to get away from them. And while they obviously bother her and concern her, the self-described ''realism'' she brings to the situation has never permitted her to present herself as long-suffering or put upon.
Only once, publicly at least, has she come close to that. In her interview with Ms. Harrison of WRC-TV, taped not long after former Senator Gary Hart was alleged to have had an extramarital affair, she spoke of his wife, Lee.
''What about Lee Hart?'' she asked. ''What about the wife who stands beside him, who believes in him and who makes personal sacrifices?''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Effie Barry, wife of the Washington Mayor, by her own account has never been quite sure where she stands with her husband. (NYT/Jose R. Lopez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (DC)

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; ETHICS SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); ETHICS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (52%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; BARRY, MARION S JR (MAYOR); BARRY, EFFIE (MRS MARION S BARRY JR) MARION S BARRY JR (94%); EFFI BARRY (79%); RUBY MCZIER (55%); 



606 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: First Victory in the Drug War

 BODY:
Just as President Bush was announcing his updated national drug control strategy yesterday, Democratic Senator Joseph Biden was distributing a drug control plan devised by the Senate Judiciary Committee. This was no quick rebuttal but a 236-page book based on a year of study and 24 hearings.
While Mr. Biden sought to demonstrate the inadequacy of the Bush plan with side-by-side comparisons, the most striking point was the similarity of the two documents. Read together, they outline a coherent policy on which both parties could unite. It would be a welcome triumph if the two sides could stop fighting each other and concentrate on the common enemy. 
A few differences stand out. The Administration proposal, prepared by William Bennett, national director of drug control policy, would extend capital punishment even to ''drug kingpins'' who have not committed murder, a grandstanding proposal that Mr. Biden rightly rejects as excessive.
The Biden plan calls for a tough Federal ban on public sales of U.S.-made military assault rifles, a step Mr. Bennett resists. And Senator Biden, unlike Mr. Bennett, would accede to mayors who want Federal aid sent directly, instead of through the states.
Beyond those points, though, the principal difference between the two plans is money. Mr. Bush would add about $1.1 billion, raising anti-drug spending to $10.6 billion. Mr. Biden would increase spending to more than $14.6 billion. Even so, there is remarkable agreement on how to spend.
Both plans recognize the need to help beleaguered state and local law enforcement reclaim neighborhoods devastated by drugs and violence. Both call for big new investments in drug treatment. Both emphasize help for drug-abusing pregnant women and babies born to addicted mothers.
Both proposals call for expanded use of the military to combat drug smuggling and both would do more to help Andean countries whose economies are dominated by the drug trade. Mr. Bennett would build on military and economic aid programs already in place for Colombia, Bolivia and Peru. Mr. Biden would offer debt relief if the savings financed drug enforcement.
The two plans converge on smaller issues as well. Both would restrict exports of chemicals used to produce finished cocaine, seize drug barons' assets and act against money laundering.
To be sure, the $4 billion difference between the two plans isn't trivial. But that ought not to obscure how much has happened in recent months. Less than two years ago, America had no drug policy to speak of, just a lot of politicians armed with empty slogans and a lot of Federal agencies scrambling for crumbs of funding.
Now, sensible basic priorities are clear, and endorsed by authorities in both parties: more resources to help local law enforcement make the cities secure; expanded treatment, especially for women and children; use of the military to improve the disappointing record on interdiction, and serious help for Andean governments.
It is possible to argue with points of the strategy, and only time will tell how well it works. But there is still good reason to celebrate an initial victory, over confusion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); PERU (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON JUDICIARY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; EDITORIALS DRUG POLICY (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); DRUG INTERDICTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COCAINE (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (68%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (68%); WOMEN (68%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); EXPORT CONTROLS (67%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (66%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (64%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (63%); FIREARMS (52%); MONEY LAUNDERING (50%); CHEMICALS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) JOE BIDEN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



607 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: MT.A. Proposes to $15 Billion Plan to Improve and Add Service

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
The chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority said yesterday that up to $15 billion would be needed, starting in 1992, to continue improving service and to pay for the first major expansions of the region's subway and commuter rail systems since the early 1970's.
Among the proposals being considered is constructing a tunnel or bridge across the Hudson River.
The chairman, Robert R. Kiley, said in an interview last night that at least two-thirds of the $15 billion ''would pay for the continued effort to bring back the existing transportation system to what we say in the trade is a state of good repair.''
At the same time, he said, ''We're going to make some proposals for new markets that aren't met by the existing system, new needs that have emerged over the last 35 or 40 years.'' 
Those needs include, Mr. Kiley said, more capacity across the Hudson in both directions, connection of the 63d Street Tunnel to the Queens Boulevard line and direct rail access to both New York City airports. Also, he said, ''the much-maligned Second Avenue line, a good idea that was aborted early in its construction, should be continued.''
Mr. Kiley first outlined his proposals yesterday at a breakfast sponsored by the Columbia University School of Business. ''He talked about a trans-Hudson rail link, either a new tunnel or bridge,'' said John Cunningham, a spokesman for the M.T.A. ''One of the projects that has had some discussion has been extending the No. 7 line out to the Meadowlands in New Jersey.''
Mr. Kiley's remarks constituted the opening round of the M.T.A. campaign for its third five-year capital budget, a plan that would be subject to approval by the Legislature. Most of the money would come from the state.
''Wow, $15 billion, it's a big number,'' said Carl Carlucci, secretary of the Assembly Ways and Means Committee. ''Those are certainly expansion issues, not simply maintenance issues, and they would have to be looked at carefully.''
The proposed capital plan, which would cover 1992 to 1996, would nearly double each allocation in the first two five-year plans. The first budget, covering 1982 to 1986, was $7.7 billion. The primary focus of that plan, Mr. Cunningham said, was buying subway cars, buses and commuter rail cars.
The second budget, from 1987 through 1991, is $8.5 billion. ''It continued the purchase of new rolling stock, with heavy emphasis on restoration of track on both subway and commuter lines,'' Mr. Cunningham said. ''Obviously, that program had a great deal to do with our ability to clean the graffiti from all our subway cars, because we were buying brand new equipment.''
Mr. Kiley said that much of the money for the third plan, in contrast to the first two, ''will be in support facilities and structural problems that are not necessarily visible to the public'' -signal systems, modernization of power delivery, improvements at car barns and bus depots.
''That work has to continue in order to bring the system back to the point where everyone agreed it ought to be in the early 80's, when the first commitment was made to completely restore the system,'' Mr. Kiley said.
Also, Mr. Cunningham said, ''we are considering system expansion for the first time since the early 1970's, when the 63d Street Tunnel and the Archer Avenue line in Queens were begun.''
The tunnel, which opened last month after years of delay, connects the Sixth and Seventh Avenue lines in Manhattan to three stops in Queens, terminating at the 21st Street station in Long Island City.
''When it began,'' Mr. Cunningham said, ''the idea was that this would be one leg of a Queens high-speed express line that would run along an old Long Island Rail Road right of way out to Archer Avenue'' in Jamaica. The plan, which was scrapped for lack of funds in the mid-70's, was intended to relieve overcrowding on the E, F, G and R trains, which run along Queens Boulevard.
 
More Rush-Hour Trains
If, as proposed, the tunnel and the Queens Boulevard line were connected, Mr. Cunningham said, additional trains could run to and from Manhattan in rush hours.
''It would include what is known as reverse signaling,'' he said. ''Normally you have two tracks running in and two running out. With reverse signaling, you could have three running in during the morning and three out in the evening.''
In the era before the two capital budgets, 80 percent of the authority money was from the Federal Government. ''Now, that has almost totally flipped - 70 percent city and state, and only 30 percent Federal,'' Mr. Cunningham said.
Asked whether a request for $15 billion was not unrealistic, considering city and state budget problems, Mr. Kiley said: ''The no-tax-increase fever that the country is currently under is going to have to end. We really do have to deal with new needs, and when you factor in inflation, it's really not such a high number.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FINANCES; SUBWAYS; RAILROADS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TRAINS (89%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); TUNNEL CONSTRUCTION (76%); AIRPORTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); 

PERSON: KILEY, ROBERT R (CHMN); HEVESI, DENNIS MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



608 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Benefits Approved for Koch Officials Under Eased Severance Rules

BYLINE: By DON TERRY

 BODY:
Severance benefits as high as $80,000 have been approved for dozens of senior officials in the administration of former Mayor Edward I. Koch under personnel rules liberalized by Mr. Koch four years ago.
Mr. Koch eased the severance rules for city managers in 1986 after tightening them when he took office in 1978 in the shadow of New York City's fiscal crisis.
Mr. Koch said yesterday that he changed the regulations to attract and retain high-level managers and to close the gap in severance benefits between those received by rank-and-file city employees and by their bosses.
Before the rules were changed, rank-and-file workers were entitled to larger severance packages than senior managers, ''which is intolerable if you want people to become managers,'' Mr. Koch said. 
 
Unused Sick Leave
Mr. Koch said the policy had benefited the city by retaining and attracting skilled managers.
Under the liberalized rules, officials may be entitled to severance that represents unused vacation and sick leave accrued during their years of city employment. Officials with more than 10 years of service can collect severance equal to a maximum of 120 sick days and 108 vacation days, plus any leave earned before becoming a manager. Officials with less than 10 years' service are entitled to severance pay equal to their accumulated vacation time.
The severance benefits cannot exceed one year's salary, a spokesman for the city's Department of Personnel, Daniel Andrews, said.
Some civic groups questioned the policy yesterday.
''This stuff makes folks very cynical,' said Gene Russianoff, a lawyer with the New York Public Interest Research Group. ''These top managers get paid a good deal, and they know what they're getting into. If you're worried about working nights and weekends, you don't go into government.''
 
'Somewhat Over-Generous'
Lenore Chester, associate director of the Citizens Union, a watchdog group, said her organization had ''mixed feelings'' about the severance policy. ''It's somewhat over-generous, the 108 vacation days and the 120 sick days,'' she said. ''But those are the guidelines, and they are entitled to it under the guidelines. If we don't like those provisions, we should try to change them.''
Leland T. Jones, who was a spokesman for Mr. Koch and serves Mayor David N. Dinkins in that capacity, said the severance policy, ''like many other items, will be up for review by this administration.''
The packages approved so far range from $3,450 for Luis A. Miranda Jr., an assistant to the Mayor and city employee for about two years, to $80,181 for James Brenner, Mr. Koch's lobbyist in Albany and a city employee since 1973, according to records provided by the Comptroller's office.
At least five other top Koch administration officials have requested payments and are waiting for a decision by Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman.
Hadley W. Gold, the Commissioner of the Department of General Services, has asked for $107,136 in severance, the largest request. Three officials convicted in the government corruption scandals during Mr. Koch's third and final term were denied benefit payments. Anyone convicted of a crime related to his government job is denied a severance package under the regulations.
The Comptroller's office is to certify the ''correctness of the calculation'' provided by the agency where the official works, a spokesman for Ms. Holtzman, Glenn S. Goldberg, said.
When Mr. Koch took office in 1978, the city was just beginning to emerge from the fiscal crisis, so the new Mayor quickly moved to tighten severance benefits for city managers.
He ended the practice of overtime pay for managers and tightened sick leave and vacation pay for departing senior officials to a maximum of 54 days. Managers who began working for the city before Jan. 1, 1978, were allowed to keep any accumulated leave.
Mr. Koch relaxed the rules, in part, Mr. Jones said, ''to compete with private industry.''
''There was lots of money to be made out there in the middle 80's,'' Mr. Jones said. ''The economy was booming. We had to compete.''

GRAPHIC: Photos; ''This stuff makes folks very cynical,' said Gene Russianoff, left, a lawyer with the New York Public Interest Research Group, of severance pay rules that were liberalized during the Koch administration. Hadley W. Gold, right, the Commissioner of the Department of General Services, has asked for $107,136 in severance pay, the largest request. (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIZENS UNION BANCORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); SEVERANCE PAY (91%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (90%); SICK LEAVE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); LOBBYING (67%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON; KOCH, EDWARD I (MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 



609 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: Energy Project Imperils a Rain Forest

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PAHOA, Hawaii

 BODY:
Bulldozers and drill platforms have come here to the Wao Kele O Puna, the last big tropical rain forest in the United States, where a showdown over the fate of this jungle may ultimately determine the fate of modern Hawaii as well.
The roads that have been hacked through the humid forest form the rough beginnings of a plan to turn the east rift of the Kilauea Volcano into one of the world's largest geothermal power plants.
By tapping into the steam beneath the erupting volcano on the big island of Hawaii, political and business leaders hope to free themselves from a heavy dependence on foreign oil and to provide electricity for future development.
But critics say the plan to industrialize much of the forest would not only destroy an ecological treasure, but could also burden a generation of Hawaiians with unwanted real estate development and debt.
 
Pressures Pro and Con
''Why should America's last big tropical rain forest be sacrificed so all the new hotels can run their air-conditioners?'' asked one opponent, Russell Ruderman, a biologist. 
Gov. John D. Waihee 3d said the project had put tremendous political pressure on him. Environmental groups, led by the Rain Forest Action Network in San Francisco, are urging tourists to boycott the state to protest development in the rain forest.
Tourism, an $8 billion industry built around more than six million visitors to the islands every year, is the economic engine that runs Hawaii. Although Hawaiian government officials say they are not sure how much the boycott is hurting them, they are stung by the criticism.
''This is not Brazil or Peru,'' Governor Waihee said, responding to critics of tropical deforestation. He said he supported the development of geothermal plants as the key to Hawaii's energy future, but added, ''That doesn't mean geothermal power has an absolute right to destroy a rain forest.''
 
Small but 'Fascinating'
The forest is small by South American standards, with 27,000 acres much smaller than what is destroyed in South America each week. But the plan to cut roads, build power plants, and string electric transmission lines through Wao Kele O Puna (the name means ''green forest of Puna'') would tear up the ecological web that keeps it alive, critics say.
''We've got to be cautious with what is left here,'' said James Jacobi, a Federal botanist with the Fish and Wildlife Service. ''This place is so fascinating, so full of original species. But working here is frustrating because you virtually watch these species drop off the face of the earth. I fear these geothermal plants would accelerate that process.''
Mr. Jacobi said half the Hawaiian Islands used to be covered by rain forest, and 95 percent of the plant and animal species found in those woodlands are exclusive to the state. Sugar plantations, logging and urban developments have leveled much of the forest.
Governor Waihee said that in order to meet this fast-growing state's energy needs, Hawaii will probably have to decide between increased imports of foreign oil - thereby risking a catastrophic spill in its pristine Pacific waters - or cutting up parts of the rain forest on the lower slopes of an erupting volcano. He said the choice is further complicated because it presents a choice between the lesser of two environmental evils: oil burning power plants, which give off gases thought to heat the atmosphere, or geothermal power at the expense of forest, which tends to cool the air.
''It's not an easy debate,'' the Governor said. ''I grew up on the big island. I don't want to be known as someone who sacrificed the big island for energy grubbing people in Oahu,'' where 80 percent of the population lives.
 
Objections Based on Goddess
Nearly 10 years ago, when the state first announced plans to tap the heat of Kilauea, one of the world's most active volcanoes, the opposition came mainly from native Hawaiians who said the drilling would violate their goddess Pele, who is said to reside in the steaming caldera.
The native groups formed the Pele Defense Fund and challenged geothermal development in court as an attack on their freedom to practice their religion. ''We believe in nature gods,'' said Palikapu Dedman, president of the native group. ''The nature here is our god. Drilling in Puna is sacrilege, no different than trashing a Christian cathedral.''
The native Hawaiians lost the First Amendment argument in court, and the Supreme Court has turned down a request to hear the appeal.
As originally conceived, the state was going to allow drilling at elevations above the lowland rain forest. But then, in 1983, Kilauea started spitting hot lava with a fury that surprised even some geologists who had studied the area for years.
Kilauea, the centerpiece of Hawaiian Volcanoes National Park, is still erupting. Lava has covered roads and spilled into the sea on the southern tip of the island.
 
Land Swap Is Challenged
After lava up to 300 feet deep covered much of the private land that was to be used for geothermal drilling and power plants, the developers began to consider using the adjoining rain forest.
Negotiations led to an exchange in 1985 that kept the project alive. The state traded 27,000 acres, including parts of the Puna rain forest, to a private landowner, Campbell Estates, which gave up its 25,000 lava-covered acres. The land now owned by Campbell Estates is where the geothermal project is under way.
The swap is being challenged in Federal court in one of the remaining lawsuits that could still snag the project. Critics say the state gave away land that was supposed to be used as a trust for native Hawaiians in return for land that has been partially logged and is now virtually covered by lava.
''What we gave up was a treasure, land ceded for native Hawaiians, and what we got in return was useless,'' Mr. Dedman said. Governor Waihee said conservationists had urged the trade to protect the upland forest and are now trying to have it both ways.
Currently, only a few roads have been cut into the Puna forest, a rich reserve of giant ferns, full-canopied Ohia trees and plants most Americans see only in exotic greenhouses. True Geothermal Energy Company, of Wyoming, has a permit to develop power plants capable of producing up to 100 megawatts. That amount could provide energy for up to 100,000 homes, far fewer than now exist on the island of Hawaii, which, though the biggest of the seven main islands in the archipelago, is also the poorest. #40 Arrests for Trespassing The company has begun drilling and building roads in an area that native Hawaiians had used for gathering herbs and conducting religious rituals, and more than 40 people have been arrested on trespassing charges at the forest boundary in the last year. Some were attempting to conduct religious rites and others were protesting the project.
''You just can't take a forest away from the people who lived there for thousands of years,'' Mr. Dedman said.
Governor Waihee, the first native Hawaiian to govern the islands since Queen Liliuokalani was forced to abdicate in 1893, the last year of the Hawaiian monarchy, said some provisions should be made to allow religious worship in the forest.
The state has announced plans to develop enough geothermal output to generate up to 500 megawatts of electricity, which would then be sent through more than 150 miles of underwater cable to the more populous islands of Maui and Oahu. Various economists have estimated the cost at $1.5 billion to $4 billion, to be borne by electric customers, taxpayers and private companies, which might issue bonds or become partners in the project.
A consultant hired by environmentalists has compared the geothermal project here to the attempt in Washington state to build five nuclear power plants in the 1970's, which led to the largest municipal bond default in history. A report by the consultant, Northwest Economic Associates of Vancouver, Wash., said Hawaii's geothermal plan is fraught with risk and uncertainty that could triple its cost.
Governor Waihee said expense is his biggest concern. ''I have a lot of questions about the cost and just who going to pay for it,'' he said.
 
Debate on the Effects
If geothermal power were developed to its full capacity, the Puna rain forest would be laced with hundreds of drill platforms linked by high-voltage electric lines, roads and pipes, according to the developers' own environmental studies. Officials of True Geothermal have said they can develop power plants without ruining the forest. Only 300 acres would be cleared, they said, to provide platforms for drilling equipment needed for a 100-megawatt plant.
But scientists like Mr. Jacobi, who heads the Government's Hawaii Research Station, said the greater damage to the forest would come from the very introduction of so much industrial equipment, and the potential for large releases of hydrogen sulfide, a gas byproduct of the geothermal process. He explained that the Ohia trees that dominate the forest rely on birds to pollinate them, and if the birds are chased away by smell or noise, the forest's future would be threatened.
Many residents of the Puna district, where it rains more than 100 inches a year and the houses are built are stilts, say there is less need for large-scale power plants on the big island than almost anywhere else. They collect water from rainfall and generate power from solar energy cells atop their homes.
''This billion dollars they might have to spend on the cable would be enough to put solar energy in every home in Hawaii,'' said Bill Reich, a Democratic Party official in the Puna district.
Geothermal energy was once considered a safe and clean form of power generation, but Hawaii's experience with a small, experimental plant run by the state has not been good. The plant was closed last year after numerous accidents led to some evacuations and health problems. The plant, designed to generate only three megawatts, released smelly gases and caused some residents to complain of headaches and nausea.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''We believe in nature gods,'' said Palikapu Dedman of a Hawaiian native group, shown near drilling site. ''The nature here is our god. Drilling in Puna is sacrilege, no different than trashing a Christian cathedral.'' (NYT/John Titchen); map of Hawaii showing location of Woa Kele O Puna rain forest (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAWAII; KILAUEA VOLCANO (HAWAII); WAO KELE O PUNA RAIN FOREST (HAWAII)

SUBJECT: GEOTHERMAL POWER; BOYCOTTS; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS RAIN FORESTS (92%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); DEFORESTATION (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); BOTANY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); ZOOLOGY (71%); ANIMALS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (71%); REAL ESTATE (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY JOHN D WAIHEE (63%); 



610 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 10, Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: AT THE MOVIES

BYLINE: By Lawrence Van Gelder

 BODY:

The Mermaid's Voice
Not often in these days of media overkill does a film establish box-office records without the public being made privy to every detail of the life of the star, but that seems to be the case with one of the most durable hits of recent months, ''The Little Mermaid.''
The Walt Disney Pictures' animated film about Ariel, the daughter of an undersea monarch who falls in love with a terrestrial prince, took 52 days from the time of its release on Nov. 17 to become the top-grossing animated film in history. Its $56 million surpassed the record established by ''Oliver & Company,'' a 1988 Disney production that amassed $53.2 million in its initial release. (The ''Mermaid'' grosses are now in excess of $60 million.) But who's the real person behind the animated Ariel, who has won the affection of audiences and the plaudits of critics?
She is Jodi Benson, who was making her film debut in the role after a career as a stage actress in such Broadway, Off Broadway and touring productions as ''Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat,'' ''Marilyn: An American Fable,'' ''Smile,'' ''Welcome to the Club,'' ''Sophisticated Ladies'' and ''West Side Story.'' 
Miss Benson said: ''When the picture came out, I thought, isn't that wonderful. Isn't that great. I'll go back to the theater and do another Broadway show.''
But Miss Benson, who had been involved in making ''The Little Mermaid'' for some three years, reckoned without Jeffrey Katzenberg, the intrepid chairman of the Walt Disney Studios.
Last September, Miss Benson said, Mr. Katzenberg telephoned and said: ''You are the character and the title character. You can best represent the film and educate the public about animation.''
So Miss Benson went on tour in October and November to introduce the film. She said her involvement with ''The Little Mermaid'' began when she received a call telling her that the Disney people were doing some casting. ''They were looking for an actress to sing and who would have the voice quality of a 16-year-old,'' she said. ''On stage, I play a lot of teen-agers and college kids, and I play young.'' So for her audition, she taped two scenes from the script and sang ''Part of Your World,'' a ballad from the film.
Weeks went by. The 27-year-old Miss Benson, who has made her home in New York City for the past five years, began to forget she had auditioned until one day she checked with her telephone answering machine from a telephone booth in the street. And she heard the voice of her agent, Nancy Curtis of Bret Adams Ltd. ''She sounded like she was having a heart attack,'' Miss Benson said. '' 'Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Please call me.' '' Miss Benson did. ''She said, 'You got the movie.' She was screaming.'' Miss Benson said that her initial reaction was disbelief. '' 'No, no, no,' '' she remembers saying. '' 'You're kidding.' So much time had gone by that I thought they must not like me. I walked on cloud nine for six months until I got to meet them.''
By way of preparing to portray Ariel, Miss Benson said: ''I researched all of Disney's famous animated films, looking for qualities in the inflections of the voices. You can't use your body.'' She rented videocassettes. She closed her eyes and listened to the inflections.
''That's a real art,'' Miss Benson said, ''to be a voice-over person. The tools I used when I got in the recording studio? I acted everything out physically, expanded and went uninhibited, like a kids' playroom. That's the way Disney likes it.'' Sometimes, to create a feeling of being lonely underwater, she would sit on a stool and close her eyes.
Now, as a result of the accolades for Ariel, Miss Benson has made a quick move to the Los Angeles area (without giving up her New York apartment).
At the Pasadena Playhouse, beginning with previews next Friday and opening Feb. 11, she's playing the energetic, determined title character in a revival of the musical ''Flora, the Red Menace.''
People told Miss Benson that the West Coast run would be good for her career. ''Since ''Mermaids' was my first movie,'' she said, ''this would be a wonderful thing to introduce me to the Los Angeles area and say, 'Hi, I'm the face behind the voice.' ''
Yes, Miss Benson would like more movies. ''Live, action, with my face in them,'' she said. But she wouldn't be averse to some more animation, either. The ''Mermaid'' experience has been fun - and more.
''It's been a whirlwind,'' she said.
 
Jersey as a Film Set
Superficially, Woody Allen and Sylvester Stallone wouldn't appear to have a lot in common. How about Roseanne Barr and Michael Caine? Meryl Streep and Sean Penn? Well, all of them - plus Robert De Niro, Harrison Ford, Anjelica Huston, Raul Julia, Sidney Lumet, Martin Scorsese, Alan J. Pakula and Donald Sutherland, to drop a few more names - are among the people who were involved in movies made in New Jersey during 1989.
According to the 12-year-old New Jersey Motion Picture and Television Commission, a record 354 film and video productions came to the state last year, benefiting the economy by a record $24.8 million - a 9.25 percent increase over the 1988 total.
Among the films that were shot at least in part on location in New Jersey were Mr. Pakula's forthcoming murder mystery ''Presumed Innocent,'' with Mr. Ford, Greta Scacchi and Mr. Julia; Susan Seidelman's ''She-Devil,'' with Ms. Barr and Ms. Streep; Mr. Scorsese's coming ''Good Fellas,'' a study of a Mafioso starring Mr. De Niro; ''Jacob's Ladder,'' the psychological thriller directed by Adrian Lyne of ''Fatal Attraction'' fame; ''A Shock to the System,'' a forthcoming black comedy starring Mr. Caine; ''Quick Change,'' a comedy directed by and starring Bill Murray; Mr. Lumet's forthcoming ''Q and A,'' with Nick Nolte as a cop and Timothy Hutton as a young prosecutor, and Mr. Allen's ''Crimes and Misdemeanors.''
According to Joseph Friedman, the executive director of the commission, the number of feature films made in the state declined last year to 31 from 35 in 1988. But, he reported, ''The features that shot in New Jersey during the past 12 months tended to be of higher budget and remained in the state for longer periods of time. So although 1989 features were slightly fewer in number, as a whole they entailed larger crews and amounted to more shooting days.''
 
The Magic of Cinema
With a screening of the prize-winning ''Cinema Paradiso'' for the benefit of the American Film Institute's National Center for Film and Video Preservation, Miramax Films will celebrate its 10th anniversary next Wednesday at Alice Tully Hall.
The honorary committee for the event, scheduled for 7 P.M., comprises such names as Martin Scorsese, Daniel Day-Lewis, Jean Firstenberg, Bridget Fonda, Jeff Goldblum, John Hurt, James Ivory, Andie MacDowell, Ismail Merchant, Liam Neeson, Paul Newman, Laura San Giacomo, Jim Sheridan, James Spader and Joanne Woodward.
The film, an Italian-French co-production directed by Giuseppe Tornatore, who will be on hand, spans the postwar years in a tale of the relationship between a film projectionist (Philippe Noiret) and a little boy who grows up fatherless in a small Sicilian town. At the Cannes festival last year, ''Cinema Paradiso,'' which opens its commercial run in New York on Feb. 2, was awarded a special jury prize.
Miramax Films is a distribution company that has released such films as ''My Left Foot,'' ''Sex, Lies and Videotape,'' ''Scandal,'' ''The Thin Blue Line,'' ''Pelle the Conqueror'' and ''Crossover Dreams.''
Tickets, at $100, and additional information about the event, which is sponsored by Giorgio Armani, may be obtained by calling 489-6900.

GRAPHIC: photo: Jodi Benson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: LITTLE MERMAID, THE (MOVIE)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (86%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION COMMISSION; MIRAMAX FILMS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ANIMATED FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); ANIMATION (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TRENDS (71%); ADOLESCENTS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: BENSON, JODI JEFFREY KATZENBERG (58%); 



611 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
The Bush Administration has refined its new savings plan and other programs that it hopes will address the lagging rate of savings and investment. The centerpiece is an account that it hopes will increase Americans' savings by granting tax-free interest on money left on deposit for at least seven years. [Page A1.] 
 
Alan Greenspan told Congress that foreign investment has spurred competition and new technology and that concerns about it were overblown. The financial markets were shaken by reports of his comment that he would give some thought to whether earnings on foreign investments should be subject to a withholding tax. [D2.]
 
Oil supply shortages could occur as early as 1993 or 1994, a British Petroleum executive predicted. [D6.]
 
The first step in an effort to improve Government statistics was announced by the President's chief economic adviser. [D2.]
 
COMPANIES
 
Philips, Thomson and NBC formed a consortium to develop a system for high-definition television. [D1.]
 
W. Michael Blumenthal is stepping down as Unisys's chief executive to become a limited partner at Lazard Freres. [D1.]
 
Fox Broadcasting said it would petition the F.C.C. to allow networks to retain a financial interest in programs they broadcast. [D1.]
 
Federated asked a Federal bankruptcy judge to approve restoration of store discounts to thousands of retired employees. [D3.]
 
A.T.& T. reported strong profits for its fourth quarter, helped by cost-cutting measures, regulatory changes and modest revenue growth. Nynex reported a loss. [D1.]
 
Phillips Petroleum said it lost $255 million in the fourth quarter. Occidental reported higher net income. [D5.] Eastern Airlines said it expected to lose about $155 million in the first half. [D4.]
 
Mitsui Bank said it had formed a relationship with Carlyle Group, a Washington-based merchant banking firm. [D4.]
 
After a relatively humorless hiatus, Alka-Seltzer is back with a campaign that re-creates the charm of its vintage ads. [D16.]
 
A bitter struggle for a top French publisher took a new turn as a Gallimard family member took her complaint public. [D16.]
 
I.C.H. said it would form a group to make an offer for First Executive, recently stung by a huge ''junk bond'' write-off. [D4.]
 
MARKETS
 
The Dow industrials plunged 43.46 points, to 2,561.04, as upward pressure on interest rates and a flow of poor corporate profits kept many investors on the sidelines. The Dow is at its lowest level since July 18. [D1.] A news service report about comments by Alan Greenspan sent shudders through the credit markets. [D12.]
 
The dollar was mostly lower as rumors raised fears about foreign investment. [D13.] Wheat and soybean futures slumped. [D13.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
The U.S. Ambassador to Hungary is resigning to manage a consortium of financiers. The group purchased half of a Hungarian bank and plans other investments in Eastern Europe. [A1.] Britain's Foreign Secretary proposed a stepped-up schedule of consultations between European Community ministers and U.S. officials to deal with rapid change in Eastern and Western Europe. [A11.]
 
Brazil's president-elect vowed in New York to restore economic growth through privatization, fiscal discipline and debt relief. [D7.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
The draft of a new study maintains that it is possible for public pension funds to invest in projects that produce market-level returns while also promoting social goals. Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
United's unions have a good chance of buying UAL in their second try, but they still face some pitfalls. Market Place. [D6.]
 
Desire for distinction is keeping up demand for creative people, a top recruiter says. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D16.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (83%); CG (NASDAQ) (58%); BP (NYSE) (57%); BP (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (83%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (83%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HUNGARY (91%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (83%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); BP PLC (57%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (53%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); FUTURES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); STATISTICS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); TAX WITHHOLDING (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (69%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (67%); PETITIONS (66%); STOCK INDEXES (64%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (53%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



612 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: A.T.& T. Has a Profit; Nynex Reports Loss

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
The American Telephone and Telegraph Company yesterday reported strong profits for its fourth quarter, helped by cost-cutting measures, the removal of two important regulatory restrictions and modest revenue growth.
Meanwhile, the Nynex Corporation, which serves local telephone customers in New York and New England, reported a loss. Nynex said its results reflected the softening of the local economy, a 17-week strike by 60,000 employees and restructuring costs.
A.T.& T. earned $705 million, or 65 cents a share, in the last quarter of 1989, up by 18.8 percent from the $593 million, or 55 cents a share, that its regular operations earned in the 1988 quarter. 
In the corresponding period in 1988, the telephone giant took a special charge of $6.7 billion to cover the cost of modernizing its long-distance telephone network, which produced a net loss of $3.34 billion.
The company's revenues edged up by 1 percent, to $9.30 billion in the recent quarter, from $9.20 billion.
A.T.& T. also said 1989 was its most profitable year since the 1984 divestiture, producing a net income of $2.69 billion, or $2.50 a share, compared with a $1.66 billion loss in 1988.
Excluding the charge in 1988, the company's earnings would have been up by 19 percent. Its revenues for the year rose by 2.5 percent, to $36.11 billion from $35.21 billion.
''It was a year in which A.T.& T. became a trimmer, more responsive and more aggressive competitor,'' said Robert E. Allen, the chairman. He said the company had shed 21,000 employees during the year, leaving it with a work force of 283,500.
''The results show a strong company getting stronger,'' agreed Jack Grubman, who follows telecommunications companies for Paine Webber Inc.
The regulatory changes that helped the company during the year included the decision by the Federal Communications Commission to set ceilings on telephone call prices rather than on company profits, which allowed A.T.& T. to capitalize on efficiency gains. The commission also upheld the company's right to sell special networks to corporate customers.
The revenue gains came despite two cuts in the price of long-distance phone calls during the year and declining income from telephone rentals. The company's sales of communications services grew by 6.6 percent for the quarter and by 6.3 percent for the year. Sales of services totaled $5.6 billion in the quarter, sales of products $3.13 billion and rentals $571 million.
 
Nynex
Hurt by a regional economic slowdown, Nynex reported a quarterly loss of $43.7 million, compared with a net income of $342.2 million, or $1.74 a share, in the 1988 period.
The company was also hurt by its inability to install new telephone lines during a four-month strike that ended on Dec. 1 and by the loss of some business customers to competitors offering private networks. It took special charges totaling $325 million after taxes in the quarter.
Without the charges, the company would have earned $281 million, or $1.43 a share, in the recent quarter, down by about 18 percent from the last quarter of 1988. Nynex's revenues edged up by 3.7 percent, to nearly $3.36 billion in the latest quarter from just over $3.24 billion.
''The one-time charges are generated in part by our determination to position the company for the long term and set the stage for earnings growth,'' said William C. Ferguson, the company's chairman.
Nynex's net income for the year totaled $807.6 million, or $4.10 a share, down by nearly 39 percent from $1.31 billion, or $6.63 a share, in 1988. Without the charges, earnings would have been about $1.13 billion, or $5.75 a share, down by 13 percent from 1988. The company's revenues for the year were $13.21 billion, up by 4.3 percent from $12.66 billion in 1988.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (92%); NYNEX CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T); NYNEX CORP

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); TELEPHONE RATES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (70%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J



613 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: 43.46 Decline Leaves Dow At 2,561.04

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average of 30 blue-chip stocks plunged 43.46 points, to 2,561.04, yesterday, as upward pressure on interest rates and the flow of poor corporate profits kept many investors on the sidelines.
At the close of the New York Stock Exchange, the Dow was down 116.86 points, or 4.4 percent, for the week, and below the level of 2,569.26 it reached after the 190.58-point market plunge of Oct. 13. The blue-chip indicator was down more than 20 points shortly after 1 P.M. before regaining some ground and then plunging within the last hour of trading.
The Dow is now at its lowest level since July 18, when it stood at 2,544.76. A close below 2,600 is considered bearish for technical and pyschological reasons. 
 
Volume at 172.3 Million
Volume on the Big Board fell yesterday to 172.3 million shares, from 207.8 million shares Wednesday, and declining issues outnumbered gainers on the Big Board by 937 to 539.
Another bearish indicator was the 4.18-point fall, to 326.08, in the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks, below the index's Oct. 13 close of 333.65.
More important, the March futures contract on S.&P. 500 index closed at 326.75, down 6.35. Thus, the premium of the March 500 futures over the actual index was only 67, when it should have been 195, based on a formula that calculates the days left in the life of the nearest futures contract, as well as alternative investments like 90-day Treasury bills. A futures contract is an agreement to buy or sell certain amount of a financial instrument or commodity at a specified time and price.
Given this abnormal situation, many computer-guided program traders and arbitragers are expected to find the futures cheap relative to the actual index at the opening this morning. This normally leads to the selling of the relatively overvalued stocks in the index and the buying of the undervalued futures.
''As if the market's sentiment wasn't bearish enough, Fed chairman Greenspan's vague comments about the possibility of a new tax on foreign investors unsettled an already wobbly market and killed any chance of a late rally,'' said Robert H. Stovall, president of Stovall/20-First Advisors Inc.
He was referring to Alan Greenspan, who in response to a legislator's question at a Congressional hearing in Washington said that a withholding tax on earnings of assets held in the United States by foreign investors was ''an interesting idea that should be looked at.''
Mr. Greenspan also noted that such a move would be ''a tricky trade-off'' likely to lower foreign investment.
 
Volatility Cited
Mr. Stovall added that many investors had abandoned the market in recent weeks because of the increased volatility of many issues. He attributed the volatility to overly optimistic earnings projections by some analysts, followed by overly pessimistic forecasts by others now.
But Martin E. Zweig, the publisher of a market letter that bears his name, found solace in the recent flow of poor forecasts. ''According to the many advisory services we monitor, the bearish ones now outnumber the bulls by 44.6 to 39.9 percent,'' Mr. Zweig said, ''which in our experience is good news for the market.''
But for the near term, he said the market would continue to labor under poor monetary conditions, noting the decline in Treasury bond prices and the attendant rise in yields. ''We also see Japanese bondholders lightening their porfolios of fixed-income securities as their interest rates rise,'' he said.
Indeed, the weak recovery overnight on the Tokyo Stock Exchange from the large decline the previous day also helped create a negative climate at the opening of the Big Board. The Tokyo exchange's 225-issue Nekkei index rose 190.13 points in light trading after plunging 599.04 points the day before.
Rising overseas interest rates notwithstanding, the initial offering of the New Germany Fund at $15 a share yesterday never traded below $20 and closed at $22 on the Big Board, where it led the most-active list on a turnover of 11.5 million shares.
 
Du Pont Down 2, to 37 3/8
Second most active was Du Pont, which fell 2, to 37 3/8, on 3 million shares after it reported a drop in quarterly earnings. The decline in Du Pont, which recently split 3 for 1, put further pressure on the Dow average.
Lubrizol, also active, fell 3 1/8, to 33 1/4, apparently because it reported a rise in earnings that did not satisfy analysts. Procter & Gamble, reporting relatively flat quarterly profits, dropped 3 1/2, to 62 3/4, in active trading. The troubled Bank of New England lost 1/2, to 3 1/4, Campbell Soup fell 2 3/4, to 47 3/4, after reports the company was not for sale but may have to divest itself of some units and lay off employees.
UAL, the parent of United Airlines, fell 3, to 158 1/2, after its chairman described 1989 fourth-quarter earnings as disappointing.
At the American Stock Exchange, the market-value index fell 1.03, to 353.64. In the over-the-counter market, the Nasdaq composite index slipped 0.42, to 425.24.

GRAPHIC: graphs of daily close of Dow Jones industrial average from 7/89 to 1/90 (Source: Interactive Data); favorite stocks chart (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); BIG BOARD (74%); TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); FUTURES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); TAX WITHHOLDING (60%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); 



614 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Selling Autos by Selling Safety

BYLINE: By PAUL C. JUDGE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 25

 BODY:
After years of insisting that safety features do not sell cars, auto makers have noticed that many prospective buyers think differently. Suddenly, many car ads talk of little else.
The new attention to safety is credited partly to the baby boomers, the largest generation of consumers in history, whose own safety concerns are being sharpened by parenthood. The car companies are also trying to put the best face on new Federal regulations requiring them to add safety features whether or not buyers want them.
The Chrysler Corporation, once a staunch opponent of air bags, now hails itself in many advertisements as the only American auto company offering driver's-side air bags as standard equipment in all of its 1990 cars sold in the United States. The Ford Motor Company raised the ante two weeks ago, with a pledge that air bags would be standard for both front-seat passengers by the mid-1990's in all Ford cars sold in the United States. 
Volvo credits its longtime practice of emphasizing safety in its advertising for raising its United States sales last year even as other European car makers suffered declines.
BMW, the first manufacturer to claim anti-lock braking systems as standard equipment on all of its models, now focuses on the steering, acceleration and braking capabilities of its cars as features that can help avoid accidents. Toyota and Nissan are telling consumers in ads that the sheet metal in their car bodies gives better structural integrity and crashworthiness.
 
Cadillac Safety Promotion
The General Motors Corporation's Cadillac division is even promoting the size and power of its luxury sedans as safety features. Cadillac recently tested the market appeal of safety with a series of ads that stressed features like anti-lock brakes and reinforced side-door beams. Sales increased twice as much in the 10 markets where the ads ran as in areas where the pitch was standard luxury appeal, according to Cadillac.
''Several of these features have been built into Cadillacs for several years,'' said William J. O'Neill, a Cadillac spokesman. ''But we elected not to talk about them because we thought it wasn't worth it.''
Many such ads are created with baby boomers in mind. ''They represent half of all car buyers, and many of them have families,'' said Christopher W. Cedergren, an analyst for J. D. Power & Associates. ''They are still interested in performance, styling and value, but now they also want safety, which has become a much more important issue now that they have children.''
Beyond the baby boomers, safety is increasingly a selling point, particularly among more affluent car buyers, analysts and auto executives said.
''There is an awareness of safety among the car-buying public,'' said Maryann N. Keller, an analyst with Furman Selz Mager Dietz & Birney. ''People are willing to pay for safety features such as anti-lock braking systems.''
Marketing executives for the major auto makers have watched safety rise on the list of attributes prospective buyers consider important. In 1981, according to Ford market analysts, customers ranked safety near the bottom of a dozen selling points that include performance, styling and fuel economy. Last year, customers listed safety among their top seven considerations. Ford analysts noted that safety was the only attribute to rise on the list.
''It's almost a cultural change,'' said Robert Rosenfeldt, manager of occupant protection and impact dynamics at Ford. ''People are becoming more technically sophisticated, and they are getting bombarded with the safety message.''
 
New Laws a Factor
The new emphasis on safety also stems from a desire by some car makers to make the most of new Federal laws requiring some kind of passive restraint, whether it be the less expensive automatic seat belt or the more expensive air bag, in the driver's seats of all new cars sold in the United States, starting with this year's models. The Big Three have said that by choosing the higher-cost air bags for many models, they have had to raise prices for 1990 cars more than their Japanese competitors, which equipped nearly all their models with the less costly automatic seat belt. The Big Three raised their prices an average of $805, compared with $205 for Japanese cars.
''After being forced to make huge investments in passive restraints, the auto manufacturers want to point out how much safer their air bags or automatic seat belts are,'' Mr. Cedegren said.
Consumer awareness of auto safety features has also been raised by the discounts now offered by many insurance companies for drivers of cars equipped with air bags, automatic seat belts and anti-lock brakes. The discounts range as high as 60 percent off the personal injury payments and medical portions of the premiums for cars that have air bags, which translates into an annual savings of $10 to $35 for most drivers, according to the Center for Automotive Safety.
 
Big Three Started Slowly
The domestic auto makers have not always been so willing to market safety. In the 1980's, they dragged their feet on major safety advances, notably air bags, contending that customers did not want them and would not pay extra for an expensive feature that most would never use. General Motors offered air bags as an option in its full-size Buicks, Oldsmobiles and Cadillacs beginning in 1974, but abandoned them in 1976 after fewer than 1 percent of buyers opted for air bags. Analysts subsequently argued that the air bags flopped because they were poorly promoted with customers and dealers.
Lee A. Iacocca, now Chrysler's chairman and then president of Ford, said in 1972 that ''safety doesn't sell.'' But the growing demand for safer cars, coupled with technical advances that made air bags cheaper and more reliable, caused Mr. Iacocca to change his mind. Indeed, when Chrysler announced its commitment to air bags in 1988, the company ran ads with a picture of its well-known chairman, proclaiming, ''Who says you can't teach an old dog new tricks?''
 
Volvo's Strategy
Volvo has built its marketing strategy around the message that Volvo drivers can walk away from major crashes. ''Volvos have a track record for being tanks,'' Mr. Cedergren said.
The Swedish auto maker has increased its safety-related advertising; it now accounts for more than half of its advertising budget. Recently, the company has been hailing findings of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety that drivers in Volvo's most expensive models have exceptionally low death rates.
''For years, Volvo was advertised as 'the safe car,' and they have been very successful,'' a Ford executive said. ''You see a lot of companies now are marketing selective safety features, rather than taking Volvo's approach of pushing the overall safety of the car.''
Subaru ads now play off the Volvo commercials that offer graphic visual evidence of how passengers are protected by a steel cage when the front end crumples in a crash. Subaru wryly suggests that the braking system in its cars helps drivers avoid ever having to find out how the car performs in a collision.
But other Japanese car companies are largely absent from this arena.
''One reason the Japanese aren't advertising safety more is because they don't have much to say,'' said Brian O'Neill, president of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.
A number of smaller Japanese models have the worst safety records in a list compiled annually by the institute, based on insurance claims.
Mr. O'Neill said Toyota's Lexus, Nissan's Infiniti and Honda's Acura Legend, three luxury cars, are the only Japanese models equipped with air bags as standard equipment.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Jan. 26 about automobile safety gave an incomplete list of the Japanese cars equipped with air bags as standard equipment. Besides Toyota's Lexus, Nissan's Infiniti and Honda's Acura Legend, the 1990 Toyota Supra and Celica models have air bags as standard equipment.

GRAPHIC: photos: Auto makers are paying new attention to safety features in their consumer advertising. The Chrysler Corporation hails its driver's-side air bags while Volvo promotes its ''safety cage'' passenger compartment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (71%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (66%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (51%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; SALES MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS (78%); SEDANS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); FAMILY (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); 

PERSON: JUDGE, PAUL C



615 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
States Weigh Use Of Pension Funds

BYLINE: By Sarah Bartlett

 BODY:
STATE politicians are increasingly eyeing the pension fund savings of state employees -which have grown to a mouth-watering $700 billion nationwide - as a means to promote local economic development.
How appropriate is it to tap state pension fund coffers to support small businesses or provide venture capital for new projects? Would that put those employees' savings at greater risk, or earn them lower returns than they could expect from the stock or bond markets? If local development projects are so attractive, why are private sources of capital not already mining those opportunities? Is the market so inefficient? These and other questions are addressed in a draft of a new study, entitled ''Competitive, Plus,'' by the New York State Industrial Cooperation Council. The final version is to be released in several weeks. The council was established in 1986 by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who has been in the forefront of state officials trying to find innovative ways to promote economic development. 
The report's primary finding is that it is possible to invest in projects that produce market-level returns, yet at the same time satisfy social goals like the creation of jobs and economic development. The report presents a challenge to critics, mainly the managers of public pension funds, who have argued that such efforts smack of ''social investing'' and amount to a subsidy of politically attractive projects.
The draft report cites dozens of examples of state-promoted low-income housing, small businesses and venture capital projects that generate market-level returns while providing jobs and stimulating local business. It provides support for a recent Ford Foundation survey of public pension-fund managers who reported that 33 percent of their so-called economically targeted investments met their benchmarks - which were mainly market rates - while fewer than 4 percent failed. For the remainder, the managers either did not respond or did not know the result.
In one striking example, the New York study cites Michigan's public pension funds, which have committed or invested more than $700 million in venture capital projects. Michigan officials estimated that those investments had created about 3,500 jobs and had prompted private investors to commit an additional $200 million to Michigan businesses. So far, Michigan officials say the returns on investments in 42 companies are between 20 and 25 percent, or about the national average.
The New York report concludes that safe and profitable projects exist, but that public pension funds lack the staff and resources to find enough of them. The report endorses the establishment of a state investment bank that would help identify satisfactory projects; Governor Cuomo has favored such a bank for some time.
Tackling its critics head on, the report says a state bank would not ''develop investment programs that direct pension assets into projects with 'concessionary' below-market rates of return.'' It then goes on to suggest areas that New York's $100 billion pension fund might consider for investment. Besides housing, they include new plants and equipment for small and medium-sized manufacturers, resource-recovery plants that can no longer be financed on a tax-exempt basis, and high-tech investments.
The study concludes that ''once the new intermediary is well established,'' it could consider ''certain types of corporate financing,'' employee stock ownership plans, new-product developments, research and development programs, shared production consortiums and education loans.
As to why the market is not already satisfying such needs, the report suggests that ''there are simply fewer investment professionals at work looking for the kinds of public-purpose investments and mixed private-public-purpose investments that could strengthen a state's or region's economy.'' Free-market advocates are likely to find such an explanation wanting.
The report is sure to be examined closely by the public pension fund managers, who are concerned that such investment proposals represent nothing more than a cover for politicians trying to raid the cookie jar to enhance their political fortunes.
The Council of Institutional Investors, which represents 60 public pension funds with holdings of more than $300 billion, has taken a particularly hard stance on this issue. In December, it issued an attack on Governor Cuomo's position in a report entitled ''Our Money, Our Future.''
Sarah A. B. Teslik, the council's executive director, said that from what she had heard about this latest draft report, Governor Cuomo's aides had backed off considerably.
''It sounds much less scary than the original proposals,'' Ms. Teslik said. Nevertheless, she said she was still worried that pension funds could come under political pressure to invest in projects that might not be appropriate.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE INDUSTRIAL COOPERATION COUNCIL (80%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PENSIONS; STATES (US); SMALL BUSINESS; VENTURE CAPITAL; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); BOND MARKETS (71%); BONDS (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); GOVERNORS (59%); 

PERSON: BARTLETT, SARAH MARIO M CUOMO (80%); 



616 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Official Takes First Step For Better U.S. Statistics

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Michael J. Boskin, the chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, yesterday announced the first step in an effort to improve the quality of Government statistics, from the monthly employment rate to the quarterly measures of the gross national product.
The program includes a 10 percent budget increase for the main agencies involved in gathering statistics and 25 recommendations for specific improvements in data.
The decline in the quality of Government figures is worrying economists and statisticians inside and outside the Government because the data are used in ways that touch the lives of almost every American. 
 
Incomes and Indexes
The data help direct the course of economic policy and if off base could make the difference between a recession and a recovery. Incomes of workers and retirees are tied to the inflation indexes and the distribution of billions of dollars in Government funds is based on formulas based on Government figures.
One reason for the decline in the quality of the data is the rapidly changing nature of the American economy. The gross national product, which measures the total output of goods and services, is better designed to measure the economy of the 1950's, when manufacturing was more important.
Now, the economy is dominated by the services sector, including banks, retail stores and insurance, and this is where Government measuring devices are the weakest.
The push for improvements in data comes after a year in which important statistics, like the gross national product's measure of the output of goods and services, underwent critical revisions during the year and, therefore, gave contradictory signals about the course of the economy. A main reason for the revisions is problems with measuring retail sales, which make up a large portion of the gross national product.
 
Increases Were Denied
In addition, many primary statistical agencies, including the Bureau of Economic Analysis and the Bureau of the Census, were first denied spending increases and then made cuts to help reduce the Federal budget deficit and to pay part of the cost of the Government's anti-drug program. In the last decade, spending for these agencies, which also include the Bureau of Labor Statistics, have been held constant after adjusting for inflation.
''We've turned things around, got a commitment to do a better job and some more money,'' Mr. Boskin said in a telephone interview from Washington. ''By the end of the year, we will have a more comprehensive program. But many of the data improvements will not be felt until the mid-1990's.''
But the success of the program will depend a great deal on Congress, which faces another year of budget-cutting under the goals set by the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget balancing law. Last year, the House and the Senate rejected President Bush's special request for $20 million more to help improve data collection.
The new money for the programs will be requested in the fiscal year 1991 budget that the President will send to Congress on Monday. The fiscal year 1991 begins on Oct. 1. Mr. Boskin yesterday did not give the details of the increase. But an official familiar with the budget request said it would be about a 10 percent increase in the spending for the main, or ''core,'' agencies involved in gathering statistics, which ranges from $400 million to $500 million, depending upon how it is counted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STATISTICS; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STATISTICS (90%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); QUALITY CONTROL (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CENSUS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); RECESSION (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); RETAILERS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (61%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; BOSKIN, MICHAEL J GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



617 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Investing in U.S. Helps, Greenspan Says

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, told Congress today that foreign investment in the United States spurred competition and new technology. He characterized as overblown concerns about a surge of foreign money invested in the United States.
The concern is understandable, Mr. Greenspan told the House Ways and Means Committee, because foreign investors sometimes disrupt established business patterns. But it is overblown, he said, because ''foreign investment in the United States spurs competition, provides infusions of new capital and technology into industries like steel, and speeds the spread of technological advances.'' $1.8 Trillion Invested The Government reported in June that total foreign investment in the United States increased to $1.8 trillion in 1988, from $220.9 billion in 1975. During that same period, assets owned abroad by companies based in and people living in the United States increased to $1.25 trillion from $295 billion, the Department of Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis said. 
But many analysts contend that many United States assets abroad are undervalued by the Government because they are listed at the purchase price of decades ago rather than present market value.
At one point, Representative Jim Moody, a Wisconsin Democrat, asked Mr. Greenspan whether he favored withholding taxes on earnings generated by foreign holdings of securities in the United States. ''It would be a tricky trade-off,'' Mr. Greenspan replied, ''because the aggregate amount would come down.''
Pressed by Mr. Moody, the chairman said, ''It's an interesting idea that should be looked at.'' That polite response seemed to stir anxiety in the stock and credit markets, where prices plunged.
Congress has been reluctant to approve legislation that would discourage the influx of foreign money. That suggests that the prospects of withholding taxes are remote.
 
The Largest Investors
Foreign private investors and governments now own $329 billion in such assets as factories and real estate, the Government reported. The rest is in portfolio investments like Treasury securities, stocks and bonds. The largest foreign investors are the British, followed by the Japanese, the Dutch and Canadians.
Mr. Greenspan noted that foreign purchases of United States Treasury securities surpassed $3 trillion in 1988, up from $100 billion to $200 billion earlier in the decade. He called this surge part of an inexorable trend toward the globalization of markets, which itself had been spurred by technological innovations and deregulation.
Such globalization ''benefits both the United States and the rest of the world,'' Mr. Greenspan said.
Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, asked Mr. Greensapn if it mattered if foreigners own American assets. ''It does matter,'' Mr. Greenspan said. ''To the extent that properties are profitable, I'd prefer that ownership be American.''
The surge of foreign investment was largely a result of inadequate national savings and the Federal budget deficit, Mr. Greenspan said. He urged Congress to address these underlying factors rather than ''the symptoms -large accumulations of foreign assets in the United States.''
Representative Frank J. Guarini, a New Jersey Democrat, asked, ''Is there a point at which we should be concerned about losing our economic independence and political sovereignty?''
Mr. Greenspan replied that foreign investment in the United States was relatively low compared with that in Europe. He predicted that all foreign investment would increase because ''what we are seeing is the shrinking of the globe.''

GRAPHIC: photo: Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, telling the House Ways and Means Committee yesterday that concerns about a surge of foreign investment in the United States are overblown. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US FOREIGN INVESTMENT (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); TRENDS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); APPROVALS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BONDS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); TOLCHIN, MARTIN ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); SANDER M LEVIN (58%); 



618 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
New Executive Team At Wickes Lumber

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
The Wickes Lumber Company, a major supplier of building materials, yesterday announced the appointment of a new management team: William A. Hensler, from inside the company, and Philip M. Chrusz, from outside.
Mr. Hensler, 60 years old, will be chairman and chief executive of the privately held operation, and Mr. Chrusz, 47, will be president and chief operating officer.
Until last June, the company had been run by Leslie Hagen, who retired at age 63. Hedrick & Struggles, the executive recruiting firm, conducted a search inside and outside the company and recommended Mr. Hensler and Mr. Chrusz. 
Mr. Hensler joined Wickes Lumber in 1960 as a long-range planner in the corporate treasury department and worked his way through the financial operations into merchandising and other areas. He is a graduate of Ferris State College in Big Rapids, Mich.
Mr. Chrusz comes from Ames Department Stores Inc., a discount store chain, where he was senior vice president for specialy retailing. Mr. Chrusz had earlier worked for the Grossman Building Materials Company. He is a graduate of Northeastern University in Boston.
Wickes Lumber, with annual sales exceeding $1 billion, operates 190 stores in 30 states. About 60 percent of its business comes from builders and the rest from individuals, Mr. Hansler said.
''We are driven by housing starts and interest rates and those types of things versus the true home center that concentrates on the retail customer,'' he said.
The company, based in Vernon Hills, Ill., was taken private in a leveraged buyout in 1988. It had been part of the Wickes Companies, which entered court bankruptcy proceedings in 1982 but emerged from bankruptcy before the buyout of the lumber operations.
Wickes Lumber, which is dependent on a healthy building industry and is struggling with a heavy debt from the buyout, could suffer a double blow in any major economic turndown.
Mr. Hensler said the company was not currently emphasizing growth. ''Inasmuch as we are a leveraged company, we've got other things to do first,'' he said. They include divesting itself of some unprofitable stores and redeploying assets in better-performing businesses, he said.
''If I had a wish,'' he said, ''it would be for two million housing starts and interest rates below 6 percent.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: WIKS (NASDAQ) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); SIC5039 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS, NEC (96%); SIC5033 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIALS (96%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BRADCO SUPPLY CORP (96%); AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: WICKES LUMBER CO

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (92%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (90%); CONSTRUCTION TRADE (90%); RETAIL LUMBERYARDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); HOUSING STARTS (87%); HOME CENTERS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (64%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (50%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; HENSLER, WILLIAM A; CHRUSZ, PHILIP M PHILIP M CHRUSZ (92%); WILLIAM A HENSLER (92%); 



619 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Phillips Reports Loss; Occidental Net Jumps

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Jan. 25

 BODY:
The Phillips Petroleum Company said today that it lost $255 million in the fourth quarter because of regulatory delays and economic misjudgments involving its long-held stake in the Point Arguello project off the southern coast of California.
Phillips, the nation's 10th-largest oil company, said it also incurred $50 million in costs from an explosion and fire in October that killed 23 workers and stalled production at a petrochemical plant near Houston. It indicated that insurance would cover future losses, however.
The Occidental Petroleum Company, the ninth-largest oil company, reported a jump in fourth-quarter net income, to $30 million. The company's $7 million profit in the fourth quarter of 1988 was after a reduction of $45 million to settle a dispute with the Energy Department on ''windfall profits'' tax payments. 
 
Phillips
The fourth-quarter loss of $255 million compared with a profit of $135 million, or 55 cents a share, in the 1988 quarter. Revenues in the quarter rose slightly, to $3.03 billion from $2.86 billion.
For the full year, net income fell 66 percent, to $219 million, from $650 million in 1988. Revenues rose to $12.5 billion from $11.5 billion.
Most of the fourth-quarter loss resulted from a $280 million reduction in the value of Phillips's stake in the Point Arguello field. C.J. Silas, chairman and chief executive of the company, which is based in Bartlesville, Okla., attributed the write-down largely to ''protracted delays in gaining regulatory approval'' for production to begin at the field.
Without the Point Arguello charges, Phillips said it would have reported a $25 million profit from operations for the quarter.
In recent days, other major partners in the development, including the Chevron Corporation and Texaco Inc., announced that they had taken large charges to reflect both production delays and, since 1986, lower oil prices that have reduced potential profits from Point Arguello.
The 18 partners in the field have invested more than $2 billion. But after the Exxon Valdez spill in Alaska last March, California regulators revoked a permit the partners needed to use tankers to transport processed fuel. Production from Point Arguello, with an estimated 2 billion barrels of recoverable reserves, initially was to begin in 1987.
The loss of Phillips's polyethelene plant near Houston reduced pretax profits in its chemical operations for the quarter to $36 million, from $144 million in the period a year earlier. Prices for petrochemical products, widely used in plastics manufacturing, declined in the period.
Phillips's shares gained 50 cents today to close at $23.50 in trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
Occidental
The company's $30 million fourth-quarter profit, equal to 10 cents a share, compared with net income of $7 million, or 2 cents a share, in the 1988 quarter. Revenues fell slightly, to $5.05 billion from $5.28 billion.
For the year, net income declined 5.6 percent, to $285 million, or $1.03 a share, from $302 million, or $1.21 a share, in 1988. Revenues increased by 3.3 percent, to $20.07 billion, from $19.42 billion.
The large percentage gain in fourth-quarter profits was tied to Occidental's oil operations. The unit recorded a $43 million loss a year earlier after settling a dispute with the Government on a tax owed on so-called windfall profits made when the price of oil increased suddenly in late 1970's. The unit posted a profit of $13 million in the final quarter of 1989.
Pretax profit from chemical operations fell 16.4 percent in the quarter, to $214 million, from $256 million in the 1988 quarter. Similalry, operating profits at IBP Inc., a large meat processor that is 51 percent owned by Occidental, declined 36 percent, to $23 million.
Administrative and other expenses for the year increased to $209 million in 1989, from $148 million in 1988. The 1989 figure included an unspecified charge for a charitable contribution to an art museum being developed adjacent to the company's headquarters in Westwood, Calif., and named for Dr. Armand Hammer, Occidental's chairman and chief executive.
Occidental's shares fell 25 cents today, to $27.25, on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (95%); CVX (NYSE) (82%); OXY (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (95%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (95%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (95%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (95%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (95%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (57%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (95%); CHEVRON CORP (82%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO; OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CO

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PETROCHEMICALS (89%); OIL SPILLS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (76%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (76%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); FIRES (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%); PLASTICS (50%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C



620 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Threat of Oil Shortage by '93 Seen

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
The deputy chairman of the British Petroleum Company predicted today that oil supply shortages could occur as early as 1993 or 1994 because of OPEC's inability to expand production. A possible increase in demand for oil from Eastern Europe could add to the strain on supplies, he added. 
Robert M. Horton, who will become chairman of British Petroleum in March, also said that oil prices could average $20 a barrel this year because demand in the West is holding up better than many in the oil industry had anticipated.
Although the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries can now produce about 25 million barrels of oil a day, demand for OPEC oil is already about 22 million barrels and is growing annually by about one million barrels, Mr. Horton said.
To meet the additional demand, OPEC countries would have to spend $50 billion to $60 billion, an amount they cannot afford, he said. As a result, ''the crunch is going to be nearer in time than any of us thought,'' he said.
Mr. Horton urged Western governments to take heed of the situation and promote conservation. He also urged that they allow oil exploration in environmentally sensitive areas like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska and offshore California and that they support increased use of nuclear power.
Mr. Horton said that if Eastern European countries continued to move toward democracy and rebuilt their economies, their need for Western oil could add ''another half-million barrels a day to demand quite easily.''
British Petroleum, the world's third-largest oil company, is interested in expanding its business in Eastern Europe and possibly in the Soviet Union, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (91%); BP (LSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); ARCTIC (72%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: BP PLC (91%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC); BRITISH PETROLEUM CO ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FORECASTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SHORTAGES; PRODUCTION PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (95%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (66%); WILDLIFE (66%); 

PERSON: HORTON, ROBERT M ROBERT M HORTON (91%); 



621 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: President-Elect of Brazil Pushing Free-Market Ideas

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

 BODY:
Beginning a nine-nation tour to put a ''new face'' on Brazil, the country's president-elect, Fernando Collor de Mello, vowed in New York yesterday to restore growth to Latin America's largest economy through privatization, fiscal discipline and debt relief.
In a speech to 400 business executives and bankers, several of whom had said earlier that Brazil's high inflation and low growth in the 1980's had left them skeptical about its prospects, Mr. Collor put forth his ideas on developing a freer market in his country.
On his March 15 inauguration, Mr. Collor, a 40-year-old state Governor, will assume leadership of a country that experienced 1,775 percent inflation last year and stopped servicing its foreign debt. After enjoying one of the third world's highest growth rates in the 1970's, Brazil's economy slumped in the 1980's, averaging about 2 percent growth a year. 
 
Admirer of Thatcher
Mr. Collor, an admirer of British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's free-market policies, proposed restoring growth through increased foreign investment and deregulation of the economy.
''The inflation and stagnation paralyzed investments and discouraged the entry of foreign capital,'' Mr. Collor said in Portuguese to the luncheon sponsored by the Americas Society at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.
Echoing free-market advocates in other Latin American countries like Argentina and Mexico, Mr. Collor blamed Brazil's stagnation on ''the inhibiting and inefficient state, the inflation and financial speculation, the system of privileges that protects and rewards inefficiency.''
Last year, Brazil's Congress refused to approve an inflation-fighting package submitted by Brazil's President, Jose Sarney. The plan would have cut Government spending and the Government payroll. Mr. Collor, whose party controls only 5 percent of the seats in Brazil's Congress, did not say yesterday how he would muster political support in Congress to push through his changes.
 
Limits to Sacrifices
Addressing Brazil's debt problem, he warned the audience, which included representatives of New York's largest banks, that there were limits to the sacrifices Brazil could accept to make payments.
''We don't have the illusion of being able to unilaterally impose a path of negotiations,'' he said. ''But we cannot accept impositions - agreements which resemble loyalty oaths -blocking our growth and condemning us to backwardness and misery.''
Mr. Collor won general support from members of the audience.
''I have seen a lot of Latin leaders come through here,'' said one American banker who had crossed swords with Brazilian officials throughout the 1980's over their inability to service $110 billion in foreign debt, the largest in the third world. ''On a scale of 1 to 10, I put Collor at 9.5.''
Henry Kissinger, who also attended a closed-door meeting with Mr. Collor yesterday morning, said: ''I was very encouraged by what he said.''
From New York, Mr. Collor travels to Washington where he is to meet with President Bush and others. He will then travel to Tokyo, Moscow, Bonn, Rome, Paris, London, Lisbon and Madrid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BANKER (50%); AMERICAN BANKER NEWSLETTERS (50%); AMERICAS SOCIETY (54%); AMERICAS SOCIETY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (77%); TRENDS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); APPROVALS (66%); GOVERNORS (58%); 

PERSON: COLLOR DE MELLO, FERNANDO; BROOKE, JAMES MARGARET THATCHER (55%); 



622 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Move Downward

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
A news service report about comments by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, sent shudders through the credit markets yesterday and pushed down prices of Treasury notes and bonds.
The report, sent out by Dow Jones, suggested that Mr. Greenspan had said he favored a reinstatement of the foreign withholding tax on American securities. His remarks came in response to a question by Representative Jim Moody, Democrat of Wisconsin and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. Mr. Greenspan was appearing before the committee.
That suggestion, which was later strongly denied by Joseph Coyne, a Fed spokesman, prompted a selloff in the financial markets, and was a factor in the 43.46-point drop in the Dow Jones industrial average. 
 
Idea Downplayed
''Mr. Greenspan threw cold water on the idea,'' Mr. Coyne said.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Moody said he had asked the Fed chairman ''if it would make sense to require foreigners to pay withholding taxes, as it used to be.''
''He didn't say yes or no,'' the Congressman said. ''He said it would present us with a dilemma.''
Indeed, Mr. Greenspan had called the idea a ''tricky trade-off,'' and after being pressed by Mr. Moody said, ''It's an interesting idea that should be looked at.''
The initial Dow Jones report was subsequently updated to include the additional comments by Mr. Greenspan as well as Mr. Coyne's denial that the Fed chairman supported restoring the tax, which was repealed in the mid-1980's.
But the updated reports did little to calm participants in the credit markets.
 
Market Called Very Nervous
''The market is very, very jumpy about Japanese interest in the refunding auctions,'' said James R. Capra, a senior vice president at Shearson Lehman Government Securities.
''The market was up during trading in Tokyo and then, when it gets some news that wasn't that bad, all of the gains were undone. Until the market demonstrates it can handle bad news, you have to be careful about buying.''
Analysts said there was little doubt what would happen if the tax were reinstituted.
''If the tax were reimposed, it would be wildly negative,'' said Michael J. Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America.
''You would have thought that the market would have recovered after the Fed denied the report. But the fact that someone in Congress voiced the thought raised the specter that there are people in Washington who are thinking along these lines.''
Robert Chandross, chief economist at Lloyds Bank, said: ''From a political viewpoint, one can envision how this would be popular. But I find it almost incomprehensible that Alan Greenspan would support an artificial barrier to capital movements that never worked in the past.''
In his remarks, Mr. Greenspan said that reinstating the tax would likely cause an ''extraordinary shift'' by foreigners from domestic securities.
 
Bellwether Bond at 8.45%
By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 had fallen by more than half a point in price, to a late offered price of 96 14/32, to yield 8.45 percent.
Among Treasury note issues, the 7 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 96 1/2, down 9/32, to yield 8.40 percent. And the 8 1/8 percent two-year notes auctioned on Wednesday were offered on a when-issued basis late yesterday at a price to yield 8.22 percent.
Rates rose modestly yesterday on Treasury bills.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.67 percent, up 2 basis points, or hundredths of a point. Six-month bill rates rose by 3 basis points, to a late offered rate of 7.60 percent. And one-year bills were offered at 7.47 percent, up 1 basis point.
Given the recent sharp selloff, many analysts have been predicting that the higher yields would attract buyers, and a rally would begin. Economic data to be released today were expected to encourage buying. But now some analysts are not so sure.
''For the past two days, I thought a correction was about to unfold,'' Mr. Moran said. ''But people are already expecting that the report on durable goods orders and on the gross national product will be soft. You could see a rally if those numbers are softer than what people expect, but now that is in doubt.''
 
Corporate Bond Prices Dip
In other developments, prices of most actively traded issues of investment-grade corporate bonds dipped by about one-quarter of a point, market participants said.
Activity in the tax-exempt municipal bond market was highlighted by the sale of $100 million worth of revenue bonds offered by the Salt River Project Electrical System of Arizona.
The bonds, which were sold at competitive bid, were won by an investment group led by Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
The issue consists mostly of term bonds. Coupons on the term bonds are 7.25 percent on bonds that mature in 2019 and 7.30 percent on bonds maturing in 2030.
The issue is rated AA by both Moody's Investors Service and the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Traders said that in the secondary market, prices of most municipal bonds fell by about one-quarter point.
In Washington, the Fed reported yesterday that two of the three measures of the nation's money supply fell during the week that ended Jan. 15. The third measure, M-2, rose by $2.2 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LYG (NYSE) (50%); LLOY (LSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (53%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (50%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX WITHHOLDING (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); 



623 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Regulators Accuse Bush Son in Savings Case

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
Federal regulators said today that they would file an administrative action against President Bush's son Neil, accusing him of conflicts of interest while he was a director of a giant Denver-based savings institution, the Silverado Banking, Savings and Loan Association.
The accusation of misconduct concerning Mr. Bush's actions at Silverado, which collapsed in late 1988, is certain to embarrass the White House. Less than six months ago, the President signed the largest taxpayer bailout ever, to pay for losses that largely resulted from mismanagement and fraud in the savings and loan industry.
But the action, if upheld by a Federal judge, would amount to little more than a slap on the wrist for the sort of violation that is often handled in quiet negotiations with regulators and is not considered overly grave. Both sides said the case took on dramatically larger proportions because Mr. Bush is a son of the President. 
After weeks of speculation in the press and concern on Capitol Hill and in the industry about whether regulators might back off because of political worries, the Office of Thrift Supervision said it would seek a cease-and-desist order from an administrative law judge against Neil Bush, who is 35 years old. Mr. Bush is not accused of criminal wrongdoing.
The order would seek to stop Mr. Bush from engaging in certain financial practices and relationships if he became an officer or director of another savings institution.
While agency officials declined to provide details of the complaint, they said privately that it would contend that while Mr. Bush was a director of Silverado from 1986 to August 1988 he voted to approve large loans to at least one executive with whom he had a financial relationship.
State and Federal laws generally require that directors refrain from participating in such voting.
Agency officials said the case was one of its mildest enforcement actions involving former officers and directors of Silverado, which was taken over by the Government in December 1988 at an estimated cost of $1 billion. But they said Mr. Bush's ties to the President compelled them to handle the case more publicly.
 
'Imposing Very High Standards'
''This is a very narrow case of what are the rules of proper conduct for a director of an S.&L., and you will find we are imposing very high standards,'' Rosemary Stewart, the thrift office's director of enforcement, said today in an interview.
''We decided that because there was so much press attention and speculation that we had to go public with the case far earlier than we generally do,'' said Karl Hoyle, chief spokesman for the agency.
The announcement that the action would be taken against Mr. Bush came a day after he issued a statement saying he had broken off negotiations with the thrift office and had declined to enter into a settlement agreement.
From his office today, he denied any wrongdoing.
''I have refused to sign any agreement on the principle that I have done nothing wrong,'' Mr. Bush said in a telephone interview from Denver. ''I am not going to sign any document, no matter how impotent it is, that implies I have done anything wrong. I'm prepared to fight this, and will do so.''
Mr. Bush also suggested that because of the attention the savings and loan scandal had received and because of his father's position, the regulators ''felt they had to do something.''
Indeed, the ramifications of the case against Mr. Bush are complex. On its face, charging a son of the President with conflict of interest comes at an awkward time for the White House. It follows the implementation of the savings and loan bailout plan, considered one of the President's big successes in his first year in office.
 
President Monitoring Situation
The White House was both embarrassed and angered by the regulators' action today. Administration officials said the President was monitoring the situation.
Some financial experts said the action could be interpreted as an attempt to even the score between the thrift office and the White House, since the bailout legislation stripped the agency of much of its power and the President refused to stand up to Congress in its successful attempts to force M. Danny Wall, the agency's director, to resign. Ms. Stewart and Mr. Hoyle denied that their agency had acted in retaliation.
 
A Father's Advice
Neil Bush said that he had spoken with his father about the case and that the President had been supportive. But he said his father was not about to get involved.
''I have spoken with him as a son would speak with his dad,'' Mr. Bush said. ''My father has given me the same advice he has given me for 34 years: that is to do what is right. He wouldn't get involved, nor would I ask him to get involved. But as any son would with his father, I mentioned it to him and looked to him as a source of empathy. But the handling of this is in my hands.''
Anna Perez, a spokeswoman for Mrs. Bush, said: ''Mrs. Bush doesn't believe Neil has done anything wrong, so she feels for him. She knows it's a difficult period for him.''
The action against Neil Bush could be a continuing source of embarrassment, since the legal battle could take up to two years. President Bush will have to appoint a new director for the thrift office who will eventually decide whether to continue to press the action against Neil Bush in the Federal courts.
 
Five Are Banned
While there has been much interest in Neil Bush's involvement in Silverado and some of his business dealings, the regulators have taken the strongest measures against five former executives, barring them from ever again working for a bank, savings association or credit union.
The five, who admitted no wrongdoing but agreed that they would not return to the banking business, are Michael R. Wise, the former chairman and chief executive; Richard K. Vandapool and Robert M. Lewis, former vice chairmen; Russell M. Murray, former executive vice president for lending, and W. James Metz, a former director and majority stockholder.
The agency has said its examiners found that Silverado managers were deficient in assessing the creditworthiness of borrowers, concentrated too much of the institution's business in commercial loans amid a depressed market and conducted an exceptionally large number of problem transactions with insiders, including shareholders, officers and directors.
 
Other Investigations
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which has the power to sue directors and officers to recover losses, is also investigating Silverado, as is the Justice Department, which could bring criminal charges.
Though Neil struggled as a student through high school and was the first Bush son who did not attend the Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., he eventually earned a master of business administration degree at Tulane University. He did follow his father's footsteps in setting up his own oil company; he founded JNB Exploration in the early 1980's in Denver.
He served on the board of Silverado for almost three years, at a time when the Denver economy began to fall apart as energy prices plunged. He resigned in August 1988, two weeks after his father received the Republican Presidential nomination.
 
Focus on Two Borrowers
In particular, regulators are focusing on his business relationship with two large borrowers from Silverado who are also investors in JNB Exploration, Bill L. Walters and Kenneth M. Good.
Mr. Walters, who had initially invested $150,000 in JNB, held a passive 6.25 percent interest in the exploration company at the time he was seeking loans from Silverado. Mr. Good had a larger but unstated participation in JNB's financing and an active role in the company's management, while also being a large borrower from Silverado.
In the statement he issued late Thursday, Mr. Bush said that he had abstained from all voting on loans and transactions between Silverado and Mr. Good and that he had voted on the Walters transactions ''because I did not benefit directly or indirectly from any loan or transaction between Silverado and the businesses controlled by Mr. Walters.''
But regulators are likely to take a stricter view of the law, arguing that the fact that Mr. Bush had a business relationship with Mr. Walters was sufficient ground for him to abstain from voting on loans for Mr. Walters from Silverado. Regulators have also pointed to the fact that JNB had received a $1.2 million loan from a bank controlled by Mr. Walters as another indication that Mr. Bush should have excused himself from dealings between Silverado and Mr. Walters.
The case will now be heard by an administrative law judge, who will have to make a recommendation to the thrift office's director, most likely Mr. Wall's successor, on whether there is merit to the Government's accusations.
The agency's director would then have to make a final decision and could impose a cease-and-desist order. Mr. Bush could then appeal that decision to the United States Court of Appeals in Washington.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush's son Neil, against whom Federal regulators are expected to file an administrative action shortly. (Paul Conkin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: SILVERADO BANKING SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION (72%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (55%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SILVERADO BANKING SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; FEDERAL AID (US); ETHICS SAVINGS & LOANS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (90%); LITIGATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); MISCONDUCT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ETHICS (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (74%); APPROVALS (73%); JUDGES (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; BUSH, NEIL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 



624 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1837 words

HEADLINE: THE 1991 BUDGET: BUSH'S PROPOSAL;
Bush Budget Sees Growing Revenue And Cut In Deficit

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
President Bush is preparing to send Congress a $1.2 trillion budget that envisions a dramatic decline in the Federal deficit to roughly half its level in the current fiscal year.
Mr. Bush's budget, being presented to Congress on Monday, proposes that the deficit for the next fiscal year be reduced to $63.1 billion. To accomplish that, the Administration would hold down the growth of spending and rely on its expectation of continued expansion of the economy, which would produce greater tax revenue, according to budget documents obtained by The New York Times. That deficit would be slightly below the level required by law.
In the new budget, Mr. Bush proposes to use the growing surplus in the Social Security trust fund to reduce the debt accumulated by the Federal Government over more than a decade. His proposal, calling for a ''Social Security integrity and debt reduction fund,'' differs sharply from the recent proposal by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan to cut Social Security taxes so the surplus would not be available for use in other programs. 
 
Lecture by Budget Chief
For the Pentagon, Mr. Bush's proposal seeks less money than would be needed to keep pace with inflation, representing a further slowing of the military buildup begun in the early 1980's. The budget documents also suggest that the President is more interested in reducing the deficit and holding down taxes than in broad new domestic initiatives.
The documents show that the budget director, Richard G. Darman, plans to present the Administration's proposal to Congress with a colorfully worded essay lecturing the lawmakers about their ''obligation to be serious.''
This essay, unlike any previous messages to Congress from a budget director, seems likely to fuel the conflicts that already exist between Democratic legislators and Mr. Darman because of its didactic tone and bursts of playful language.
 
Conflict May Be Greater
Even without such unusual tactics, Presidential budget proposals are always subject to extensive revision by Congress. The conflict may be greater than usual this year because of a growing sense among lawmakers that money can be shifted from military accounts to domestic programs as the threat of confrontation with the Soviet Union diminishes.
The Darman essay characterizes the Federal budget as ''the ultimate Cookie Monster,'' capable of gobbling up everything in its path, and exhorts legislators to be prepared for future expenses that he calls ''hidden Pac-Men,'' referring to a video game in which characters consume each other.
Without naming the Democrats, Mr. Darman says that those who talk about the ''peace dividend'' have ''trivialized'' the budget process, and he charges that they are driven by political greed and economic misunderstanding.
 
Growth in Tax Revenue Seen
In its specifics, the White House proposal assumes that because of growth in the economy, Federal tax revenue will increase three times as fast as Federal spending, so the deficit will decline in the 1991 fiscal year to $63.1 billion from $123.8 billion this year.
For the fiscal year 1991, which begins next Oct. 1, Mr. Bush proposes total spending of $1,233.3 billion, including $292.1 billion for the Defense Department, and he expects receipts of $1,170.2 billion. The resulting deficit is just under the goal required by law of $64 billion.
The experience of the last two years suggests that Mr. Bush's estimate of a 9 percent increase in Federal receipts is reasonable if the economy continues growing at roughly its current rate. But his projection of a 3 percent increase in Government spending appears unrealistically low based on Congressional action in the last few years. Federal outlays rose 6 percent in 1988 and 7.5 percent in 1989 above the preceding years.
The estimated deficit for the current fiscal year, $123.8 billion, is well above the $100 billion goal required by the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget-balancing law. The deficit last year was $152 billion; the goal was $136 billion.
In his warning about hidden liabilities that he calls ''Pac-Men,'' Mr. Darman lists the rising costs of health care and social welfare benefits; the obligation to clean up radioactive waste at nuclear weapon factories; Federal loans and loan guarantees for college students, farmers, home buyers and owners of small businesses, and Government insurance for bank deposits and private pensions.
With the American economy in its eighth consecutive year of growth, Mr. Darman's essay says, the ''Federal deficit seems, at worst, to have stabilized.'' But, he adds, as the risk of superpower conflict declines, ''the relative importance of U.S. economic strength only increases.''
 
'Peace Dividend' Fantasy Cited
He says Congress has ''an obligation to be serious'' and not to drift into ''Wonderland'' with fantasies about a ''peace dividend,'' derived from cuts in Pentagon programs.
Mr. Darman says the historic shifts taking place in Eastern Europe - a ''giant leap of the human spirit yearning to breathe free'' - has been ''trivialized in its translation into public debate about the budget.'' The issue, he says, has been framed in such terms as, ''How big is the 'peace dividend'?'' and ''How can I get mine?''
Mr. Darman has a decisive influence over domestic and economic policy. He is one of the few Bush aides to express a long-term vision for the United States. He served for eight years in Ronald Reagan's Administration, which was often criticized by Democrats for policies they said rewarded greed and materialism.
The underlying message of Mr. Darman's essay amounts to a warning that substantial departure from the President's wish-list could endanger economic growth. A spending binge triggered by a largely illlusory ''peace dividend'' would limit growth, feed the deficit and undermine the United States' main advantage in dealing with change in Europe and the Soviet Union, Mr. Darman argues.
To reduce the ''burden of debt for future generations,'' Mr. Bush proposes in the 1991 budget the creation of the ''Social Security integrity and debt reduction fund.'' Each year the Treasury would deposit into the fund ''an increasing portion of the projected Social Security operating surplus, reaching 100 percent in 1996,'' the budget documents say.The money would be used ''to reduce Federal debt and thus leave a more manageable financing burden for future generations.''
 
Moynihan Plan Criticized
In his introductory chapter, Mr. Darman denounces Senator Moynihan's proposal for a cut in Social Security taxes. Supporters of the plan by the New York Democrat say that Social Security taxes have been used improperly to hide the true size of the Federal deficit.
Mr. Darman also ridicules the idea of a ''peace dividend.'' Any savings in the military budget will be ''smaller than is commonly assumed,'' he says.
''Washington entertains the notion of spending 50 times a dividend that has not yet definitively materialized - a true Wonderland phenomenon.''
If Federal revenue falls short of spending in any year, it creates a budget deficit, and the Government must borrow more money from the public. The accumulated total of such borrowing is the Federal debt. In general, there is no way to reduce the debt unless the Government operates at a surplus. The debt is a burden on taxpayers because the Government must pay interest on the debt.
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that gross Federal debt will total $3.1 trillion at the end of the current fiscal year. That includes $807 billion held by Government trust funds.
The debt held by the public, a number with more economic significance, is projected at $2.3 trillion.
In a flight of fancy reminiscent of a speech he once gave denouncing self-indulgent ''now-now-ism,'' Mr. Darman describes the Federal budget as ''the ultimate Cookie Monster,'' because it has a huge appetite for consumption, like the character on the children's television program, ''Sesame Street.''
Mr. Darman says the budget ''might be understood as little more than a compilation of cookies received, cookies crumbled and crumbs spewed forth.'' But he says it actually is ''an implicit statement of values and expectations for the future.'' For too long, he says, Americans have neglected the future in a short-sighted pursuit of immediate gratification and consumption.
Mr. Darman expresses alarm about trillions of dollars in future Federal liabilities, which he describes as the ''hidden Pac-Men'' looming on the horizon. The cost of these obligations over the next 30 years is virtually certain to exceed $150 billion, he says.
 
Domestic Cuts Proposed
The Administration says that ''policy recommendations'' in the new budget will produce savings of $36.5 billion in 1991. The savings would result from proposed cuts in domestic programs, as well as from new fees charged for the use of Federal services.
Mr. Bush says that Federal receipts would increase by $96.7 billion under his budget request. The effects of inflation and economic growth account for most of the increase. With no change in current law, he says, Government receipts would rise $83.4 billion. On top of that, he says that new fees and legislation would increase Federal receipts by $13.3 billion.
Mr. Bush's budget emphasizes scientific research and development. Mr. Darman said the President was proposing a 24 percent budget increase for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, ''to a record $15.2 billion.'' Mr. Bush is also proposing tax incentives to encourage greater investment in scientific research by private businesses.
Under the Bush proposal, total Government spending on research and development would rise several billion dollars in the 1991 fiscal year, to slightly more than $70 billion.
Mr. Bush proposes a budget of $24.6 billion for the Education Department.
That is an increase of $500 million over this year's spending, or about half of what would be needed to keep up with inflation.
 
Pentagon Spending Increase
The new budget calls for an increase of 1.8 percent in Defense Department spending, from $286.8 billion this year to $292.1 billion next year. That is less than the increase needed to keep pace with inflation.
While the Administration will propose cuts in non-nuclear weapons and may try to close some of the country's biggest military bases, Mr. Bush is seeking a 20 percent increase in spending for development of an anti-missile shield. Administration officials said the President would seek $4.8 billion for this ''Star Wars'' program in 1991.
Mr. Bush has not made public the economic assumptions on which his budget is based. The Congressional Budget Office on Wednesday predicted inflation of 4.1 percent this year. It estimated that the economy would grow almost 2 percent this year and slightly faster next year. In the past, the President's budget often assumed slightly lower inflation and more robust economic growth than the Congressional forecast.

GRAPHIC: Chart of the annualized increase in the G.N.P., 1987-89 (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. 1); Charts detailing Bush's proposed fiscal 1991 budget; budget projections, 1989-95, aimed at achieving balanced budget; estimates of range of budget surplus or deficit based on economic condition, 1991-95 (Source: Office Of Managemaent and Budget) (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US) BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); TAX LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT GEORGE W BUSH (86%); 



625 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 3-9
 
East Germany's opposition parties will share power with Prime Minister Hans Modrow under a compromise reached after a week of negotiations aimed at preventing the Government's collapse in the three months before elections. Page 1
 
The use of troops in Azerbaijan was challenged by the Soviet Parliament, which called for an immediate session to draft democratic controls on the handling of domestic emergencies. 1
 
Television reports of Soviet strife reach Turkish village 6
 
Bush gives Carla Hills lead role in talks on Soviet trade 35
 
A Rumanian official has resigned from the Council of National Salvation. Dumitru Mazilu, the council's first vice president, said ''Stalinist practices'' persisted in the Rumanian Government. 6
 
The U.S. Ambassador to Hungary will resign immediately 7
 
Is Eastern Europe a challenge to Madrid's success story? 7
 
Gen. Manuel Noriega wrote a memo to President Bush asserting he is a prisoner of war and should be protected under Geneva Convention provisions. His lawyers demanded that he be tried in a neutral country. 9
 
An Israeli slain in Miami was under U.S. scrutiny 9
 
Cuba's human rights record has become an issue of contention between the White House and the United Nations. U.S. officials are pressing the Secretary General to submit a report that criticizes reputed violations of human rights in Cuba. 8
 
The governing Communists in Laos have openly returned to capitalist economics following a decade of ideological orthodoxy in all fields. The party, however, has not give up any of its political dominance. 5 
 
Chinese students saddened by Senate's vote to uphold veto 10
 
Indian forces shut down Srinagar, a city in Kashmir, a day after four Indian Air Force men were killed by unidentified gunmen. Some gunshots were heard, but the city was reportedly calm. 8
 
Kashmiris in Pakistan demonstrated in a show of support for their kin across the border in the Indian state of Kashmir. 8
 
Efforts to free American hostages in Lebanon no longer preoccupy Iranian leaders, a senior Iranian Government official said. 5
 
Two U.S. bases in Greece will close, two Greek party leaders said, but the American Embassy declined to comment on the report. 3
 
Haiti's ruler says he'll lift state of siege on Tuesday 3
 
Pope John Paul comforts Africans on migration 3
 
Chiang Mai journal: A verdant land where Victoria stares 4
 
National 9-12, 20
 
A $1.2 trillion budget proposal that envisions a dramatic decline in the Federal deficit to half its current level will be sent to Congress by President Bush. 1
 
The nation's economy grew by five-tenths of 1 percent in the last quarter of 1989, its weakest performance since the spring of 1986. Nonetheless, analysts said the economy continues to avoid recession. 21
 
Orders for durable goods rose 2.5 percent in December 22
 
Proposed closings of military bases have mobilized lawmakers whose Congressional districts benefit from the jobs and income bases bring. Both parties predict a huge fight over which bases would be closed. 1
 
A nuclear weapons plant in Idaho that was once the centerpiece of the Energy Department's plan to rebuild its deteriorating weapons industry received no money for next year in the Bush Administration's budget. 13
 
Terminally ill policyholders could receive the bulk of their life insurance proceeds before they die, under a plan announced by the nation's largest insurance company. 1
 
Weighing health: big derriere vs. fat belly 5
 
Action against President Bush's son is expected from Federal regulators who accused him of having had con- flicts of interest while he was a director of the now-defunct Silverado Banking, Savings and Loan Association. 1
 
The national mayors' meeting in Washington focused most of its attention on the missing host, Marion Barry, and how his arrest underscored the top problem facing cities: drugs. 9
 
A Democrat running for Governor of Massachusetts, John Silber, the president of Boston University, is trying to save his campaign after remarks attributed to him in an interview were assailed as racist. 9
 
Man in the news: John R. Dunne, the civil rights appointee 9
 
Regional 29-33
 
The Colombian jetliner that crashed on Long Island's North Shore Thursday may have run out of fuel before slamming into a hilltop, killing 72 people, Federal investigators said. Eighty-nine people survived the crash. 1
 
Passengers were given no warning from the pilot or crew of Flight 52 from Bogota that the plane was going to crash, survivors said. ''There was no time to scream,'' one recalled. 1
 
A gridlock on the only access road leading to the crash of the Colombian jetliner and dense fog that grounded helicopters hampered rescue efforts, officials said. 31
 
The right to beg in the city subways was upheld by a Federal judge in Manhattan. He struck down the Transit Authority's ban on panhandling as a violation of the First Amendment right to free speech. 1
 
Railroad expert picked as president of L.I.R.R. 33
 
A Bronx principal was convicted of cocaine possession. The arrest of Matthew Barnwell in 1988 touched off a wave of investigations of New York City's local school boards. 29
 
News analysis: Some school changes proposed by Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez will likely win the State Legislature's support. But lawmakers seem unwilling to tackle those that might disturb neighborhood control fo schools. 29
 
Japanese-style health care, a service for tourists and the growing Japanese community in New York City, will be provided by the Beth Israel Medical Center. 29
 
Gotti witness recounts a life of violence 29
 
Neediest Cases 33
 
Business Digest 35
 
Arts/Entertainment
 
Exile ending for Rostropovich 15
 
Sundance Film Festival 15
 
Corcoran selects director 16
 
A new order at the Tate 17
 
Music: Three views of Orpheus 18
 
Book: ''Roosevelt and Hitler'' 19
 
Sports
 
Basketball: Many deficiencies hurting Knicks 51
 
An enigmatic star 51
 
Column: Berkow on N.F.L. drug tests 49
 
Football: Commissioner's views 49
 
New Orleans plays host 49
 
Tennis: Graf wins 49
 
Consumer's World 54
 
TV shows that are commercials
 
Coping with packaging and pricing
 
A strategy to beat fuel bills
 
Obituaries
 
Lewis Mumford, a social philosopher 14
 
E. Clinton Towl, a founder and ex-Grumman chairman 32
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
 
Editorials 26
 
Yes to Mandela's way Price of fudging on S & L's A gun owners' lobby?
Topics: Pricing pain
 
Letters 26
 
Flora Lewis: The elephant wars 27
 
Russell Baker: Fast food for light minds 27
 
James David Barber: The silver spoon in Bush's mouth, and policies 27
 
Richard Lanier: New York, city of deadbeats 27
 
Roger J. Rudick: Paris, city of fare-beaters 27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ROMANIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); CUBA (90%); INDIA (88%); GREECE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); HUNGARY (79%); TURKEY (79%); EUROPE (79%); HAITI (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (74%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (93%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (88%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (56%); MADRID, SPAIN (56%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); VETO (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); AIR FORCES (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); MILITARY BASES (68%); BUDGETS (64%); CLOSINGS (63%); FACTORY ORDERS (60%); DURABLE GOODS (60%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (60%); LAWYERS (52%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



626 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Haiti's Ruler Says He'll Lift State of Siege on Tuesday

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Jan. 26

 BODY:
Responding to international and domestic pressure, Haiti's military ruler said tonight that the 30-day state of siege he imposed last weekend would be lifted on Tuesday.
In a brief television address, Lieut. Gen. Prosper Avril made no mention of lifting press restrictions or permitting the return of political leaders who have been expelled in the last week.
General Avril had predicted on Thursday that he would lift the state of siege today. 
Haitian political leaders and foreign diplomats have said that they would consider a lifting of the state of siege only the first step toward diminishing the widespread belief that General Avril is consolidating power and entrenching himself as a dictator.
 
France Suspends Economic Aid
The United States, France and Canada have condemned the decree, under which dozens of political activists were rounded up and beaten.
France suspended economic aid to Haiti today. Officials in Washington said this week that the United States was reviewing its relationship with Haiti and that any resumption of economic aid was out of the question for the moment.
The United States cut off aid to Haiti in late 1987, when the country's first attempt at democratic elections in more than three decades ended in a massacre of voters in Port-au-Prince.
Reading from a text in a stern voice before the cameras of the state-run television station tonight, General Avril said he had imposed the state of siege because soldiers were ''in a fury'' over the slaying of an army colonel by unknown assailants last Saturday. He also complained of anarchism and violent crime.
Haitians were stunned last week by the declaration of the state of siege. They said they were unaware of any circumstances warranting the curtailment of civil liberties.
 
Says He Still Plans Election
General Avril said he planned to proceed with plans for elections this year. The Government has promised to hold elections for local offices in April, followed by voting for the National Assembly this summer and a presidential election in the fall.
In the last week, however, many Haitians have judged it extremely unlikely that General Avril will allow fair elections.
The military Government's Interior Minister, Gen. Fritz Romulus, said this week that the Government would consider allowing the exiled leaders to return to Haiti after the local and legislative elections are held.
Political leaders who are still in the country have rejected this plan, saying it would allow the Government to choose a National Assembly of its own making. Any candidate who returns from exile late in the year would begin the presidential campaign with a severe handicap, they add.
General Avril said he had decided to lift the state of siege after ''considering the postive results so far.''
Other Haitians have cited only negative results. The crackdown on dissent has drawn strong protests from business leaders as well as politicians.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSEMBLY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI

SUBJECT: MARTIAL LAW INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); POLITICS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); ARMED FORCES (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); VIOLENT CRIME (69%); 

PERSON: AVRIL, PROSPER (LT GEN); TREASTER, JOSEPH B



627 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Iran Sees U.S. Hostages as Non-Issue, Official Says

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 26

 BODY:
A senior Iranian Government official says that the prospect of freeing American hostages held in Lebanon is no longer a matter that preoccupies Iranian leaders.
The official, who is touring a number of European capitals, said in two recent conversations that the Government of Iran's President, Hojatolislam Hashemi Rafsanjani, had no plans for improving ties with the United States.
He said that a majority of Iranian leaders were far more interested in building strong economic and political ties to countries in Western Europe, which he said would ''dominate the decade of the 90's.''
''There is a profound conviction among senior members of the clergy and senior technocrats in Iran that maybe our generation will not see better ties with the United States,'' said the official, who insisted on anonymity. 
 
'We Do Not Need Them'
''The general feeling is that we do not need them,'' he said. ''As far as our technological and industrial needs in the years to come are concerned, we are confident we can do very well cooperating with Western Europe.''
Discussing the situation in the Persian Gulf, the conflict in Soviet Azerbaijan and the internal power struggle in Iran, the official, in two long conversations, made these points:
* Iran is convinced that the situation in Azerbaijan has slipped out of Moscow's control and can never return to what it was unless the Government of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev is replaced ''with a Stalinist-like regime'' that rules with an iron fist, an unlikely possibility in Iran's view. The official said Iran would not interfere in the Soviet republic, but that it ''is now possible to think of open borders and industrial coopeation with Azerbaijan.''
* President Rafsanjani is firmly in control of the Government and is carrying out a program of economic and political liberalization with the full cooperation of a majority of the Iranian Parliament. He described militant radicals like former Interior Minister Ali Akbar Mohtashemi, also a member of Parliament, as ''paper tigers basically useful in feeding the fantasies of the Western media.'' He said that no senior members of the ruling clergy opposed President Rafsanjani's views.
* Iran has made great strides in accumulating credits and indirect loans from Western European countries. These hard-currency loans, quietly extended by most Western European nations, are being used to reconstruct the Iranian economy and its industrial infrastructure.
* Even though the Iranian armed forces have substantially improved their air defenses and could withstand an attack by Iraq, the Iranian Government believes that opinion in Iraq and elsewhere in the world rules out a resumption of fighting between the two countries, which ended in 1988. Iran, the official said, has no plans for massive rearmament.
The official said after many false starts in trying to improve ties with the United States over the last decade, the issue had been relegated to neglect.
 
'A Closed File,' He Says
''You don't hear anyone in the top leadership saying anything about hostages anymore or better ties with the United States,'' he said. ''It has become a closed file for the foreseeable future.''
He said there was a ''genuine antipathy'' toward the United States among senior members of the clergy as well as senior Iranian technocrats, including those who are American-educated.
The reason, the official said, is that the United States has sought to use every opportunity for an opening ''either to spy on us or play domestic politics.''
Asked about the fate of the eight American hostages who are thought to be held in Lebanon by various pro-Iranian Shiite militias, the official said that Iran had distanced itself from the issue because it had little incentive to pursue their liberation and because the situation in Lebanon ''keeps on deteriorating.''
The official, who is a strong supporter and ally of President Rafsanjani, conceded that the various militias claiming an affiliation with Iran are increasingly in business for themselves, behaving more like mercenaries that could easily shift their loyalties to Libya, Syria or any other paymaster.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); AZERBAIJAN (93%); LEBANON (93%); IRAQ (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (55%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN; EUROPE, WEST; MIDDLE EAST; LEBANON

SUBJECT: HOSTAGES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); RELIGION (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (64%); CURRENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: RAFSANJANI, HASHEMI (PRES) HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (89%); 



628 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East: Spain;
Challenge to Madrid's Success Story

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MADRID, Jan. 26

 BODY:
Having flourished as Western Europe's economic success story of the late 1980's, Spain is now worried that it may lose out as wealthier members of the European Community turn their attention to Eastern Europe.
Along with the rest of the 12-nation European Community, Spain has welcomed political change in Eastern Europe and has backed community programs to provide credits to Poland and Hungary and even food to Rumania. It has even agreed to contribute to a new development bank for Eastern Europe.
But as former Communist countries adopt market economies, Spain also fears new competition for community resources, foreign investment and export opportunities. Ireland, Greece and Portugal, the other ''poor relatives'' of Western Europe, have expressed similar worries. 
''We are completely in favor of opening up to the Eastern countries, but obviously without forgetting the south,'' Portugal's Prime Minister, Anibal Cavaco Silva, noted recently.
 
New Foreign Investment
Until now, the community's four least developed countries have been the main beneficiaries of programs worth around $8 billion a year to raise living standards and provide infrastructure in backward regions with a view to reducing the huge gap between rich and poor in Western Europe.
Having liberalized its economy, Spain has also attracted huge amounts of new foreign investment - more than $10 billion in 1989 alone - which have enabled it to register the Community's highest economic growth rates over the past four years.
But with much of this investment coming from West Germany, France, Switzerland, the United States and Japan, Spanish officials recognize that Eastern European countries may well prove attractive to foreign corporations looking for low wage scales and markets begging for consumer goods.
''If West Germany was investing a lot in Spain, it may now think it more important to invest in Eastern Europe than Spain,'' said Pedro Solbes, Spain's Secretary of State for the European Community. ''A slowdown in investment is therefore possible.''
 
A Pessimistic View
Some pessimists here have even warned that a new economic and political axis linking East and West across northern Europe could reduce Spain to a ''peripheral'' position in Europe, above all if the Community eventually decides to open its membership to former Soviet bloc nations.
Within Spain's governing Socialist Party, there is also concern that the left-of-center parties of southern Europe may lose political influence if new Eastern European parties are allowed to join the Socialist International, the worldwide social democratic movement.
Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez, though, seems determined to continue playing Spain's European card, not only because it has served the country well since joining the community in 1986, but also because it enjoys enormous public support at home.
Further, with the Community committed to accepting no new members until after a single European market is formed in 1992, Mr. Gonzalez has joined France's President, Francois Mitterrand, in arguing that acceleration of its integration process is the best way of keeping Bonn's attention focused on Western Europe.
 
Long-Term Loans to East
Noting that Spain's 27 percent share of the community's regional development fund is secure until 1992, Mr. Solbes said the community should help Eastern Europe's economies less through outright grants than through long-term loans and private sector participation.
''Czechoslovakia's per capita income is already higher than that of Greece or Portugal,'' he said. ''So it would be odd for these poorer countries to help its development. In Eastern Europe, good management is as important as money.''
Hoping to keep ahead of the game, the Spanish Government is trying to stimulate local businessmen to look for sales and investment opportunities in Eastern Europe, with which is currently carries on only 3 percent of its trade, against 61 percent with the European Community.
Last month, Spain's ambassadors stationed in Eastern Europe were summoned to Madrid for a strategy meeting on increasing commerce with the region. ''At present, we buy more from and sell more to the Ivory Coast than East Germany,'' said Spain's Foreign Minister, Francisco Fernandez Ordonez.
 
A Successful Model
The most critical test for Spain, though, will be to remain attractive to foreign investors looking for new opportunities in Europe's less developed countries.
''We have one great advantage which is the quality of life here,'' Mr. Solbes said. ''You'd be surprised by how much foreign investment has been drawn to our Mediterranean coasts.''
Oddly, Spain may have helped create the challenge from Eastern Europe by serving as a model for both peaceful transition from dictatorship to democracy and successful economic modernization.
Until recently, democrats in Poland and Hungary even looked to Spain for guidance. Now they are looking to West Germany and France for resources.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); SPAIN (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (92%); HUNGARY (92%); ROMANIA (92%); PORTUGAL (92%); POLAND (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); GREECE (78%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (90%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (74%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SPAIN; EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); TRENDS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); 

PERSON: ANIBAL CAVACO SILVA (54%); 



629 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2535 words

HEADLINE: Calling Himself a War Prisoner, Noriega Says U.S. Can't Try Him

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 26

 BODY:
In an effort to avoid prosecution in the United States, Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega asserted today that he was a prisoner of war in this country, and his lawyers demanded that he be taken to a neutral country to stand trial.
General Noriega, the Panamanian dictator who surrendered to American authorities after United States troops invaded his country last month, made his claim in a brief letter to President Bush written in Spanish and delivered today to the White House.
Defense lawyers cited the letter in a motion in Federal District Court here, which declared that the United States judicial system had no jurisdiction over the General.
But Judge William M. Hoeveler said he could not consider the motion immediately and reminded the lawyers that General Noriega was here for a bond hearing. After prosecutors presented evidence of the general's ownership of homes, sports cars and credit cards that they said could represent assets of as much as $30 million, making him a risk to flee the country if free, Judge Hoeveler ordered that the defendant continue to be held without bond on drug-trafficking charges. 
People closely involved in the case said tonight that General Noriega would be moved in the next few days from his cell in the courthouse here to a more secure site at the Metropolitan Correctional Center, a Federal prison south of Miami. A specially built cell is being prepared for General Noriega, these people said. The move to a nearby prison is apparently a compromise between defense lawyers and Federal officials, who wanted to move the general to a prison out of state.
 
General Is Called a Danger
The prosecutors also argued that General Noriega would be a danger to the community because he is expert in counter-terrorism and covert actions and still has loyal armed followers. ''It's alleged that Mr. Noriega used torture and violence when it suited his purposes,'' said Myles H. Malman, the deputy prosecutor in the case. ''Mr. Noriega is an extraordinary danger to the community.''
In asserting that General Noriega was a prisoner of war, defense lawyers argued that provisions of the Geneva Convention should allow him to be tried by an international tribunal like the World Court. General Noriega was captured ''as a result of an illegal military invasion by the United States,'' the defense motion said, ''against the sovereignty of the Republic of Panama.''
The defense lawyers said the brief letter to Mr. Bush was intended to put him, as commander in chief of the military, on notice that General Noriega was a prisoner of war.
Frank A. Rubino, the chief lawyer for General Noriega, insisted in an interview that the idea to claim prisoner-of-war status was a recent one and not the result of any deal or plan opening the way for General Noriega's surrender.
''Did I set it up long ago and far away?'' Mr. Rubino asked. ''No.'' The lawyer said he thought seriously about the prisoner of war argument ''ever since I saw him surrender,'' saying: ''It's classic. It's classic.''
A few days before the invasion in December, the Panamanian National Assembly of Representatives declared the country to be in a state of war against the United States because of American economic sanctions. General Noriega had appointed the assembly in October.
Mr. Rubino said he was seeking high drama with the disclosure of the letter to Mr. Bush, which was sent to the White House by overnight mail Thursday night, and the motion filed with the court today. He could not hide his glee after the proceedings.
 
'Reject the Arguments'
''Tell me they weren't upstaged today,'' Mr. Rubino said. speaking of the prosecution, adding, ''That was pathetic.''
But Mr. Malman responded to the defense declaration that General Noriega was a prisoner of war by telling the court, ''We categorically reject the arguments and the status he seeks for himself.''
The letter, citing specific articles on the protection of prisoners of war and of war victims, read, ''I, General Manuel Antonio Noriega, pursuant to Article 4 A (1) (3) of the Genera Convention III of 12 August 1949, and the 1977 Geneva Protocol I, additional to the Geneva Convention, hereby claim prisoner-of-war status.''
 
White House Dismisses Claim
A spokesman for the White House, Roman Popadiuk, said: ''Our response to the Noriega letter will be made in the court proceedings. However, this request will not affect our ability to prosecute Noriega.''
Some legal authorities, surprised by the letter, said it was a novel tactic and added that they could not predict how it might affect the case.
The courtroom was full of theatrics, with lawyers on both sides seeking to dominate the proceedings and often sparring with one another.
In his opening address to the court, Mr. Malman criticized the defense lawyers for being too public, accusing them of seeking to try the case in the news media. ''We are here today to bring it back in the courtroom,'' he said.
Rather than respond to the prosecution's assertion that General Noriega was a risk to flee the country, Mr. Rubino said the court had no jurisdiction. At one point, he stood up and told the court: ''His name is Manuel Antonio Noriega. His rank is four-star general. His serial number is 001. Thank you.'' He then took his seat.
In the courtroom for the third time, General Noriega tried to look the role of a foreign leader. While in his last appearance, he wore a cotton shirt, he was dressed today in a tan open-necked uniform with the four stars of a general on the sleeves and dark pants. His lawyers addressed him as ''Prisoner of War General Manuel Antonio Noriega.'' Prosecutors called him ''Mr. Noriega.''
The former Panamaian dictator, who sat stone-faced at the previous court appearances, was more animated today, laughing with his lawyers before the proceedings began and also during the session. At one point he broke out in a big smile when he caught the eye of the fiancee of one of his lawyers, who was sitting in the front row among the spectators.
For the first time in a courtroom, the Government offered evidence today that prosecutors said showed General Noriega's vast wealth and connections to foreign leaders, who conceivably could offer him asylum.
As an example, Mr. Malman said the Government would show that General Noriega has a $400,000 condominium in Paris and that $5.8 million in cash was found by American authorities in envelopes marked ''confidential to my General'' at his ranch in Panama. Mr. Malman also said the Government had frozen $20 million in assets of General Noriega, mostly in Europe.
The prosecutor also said that as evidence of General Noriega's ties to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, ''We were told that Mr. Noriega was the recipient of his and her Qaddafi watches.'' He added, ''Mr. Qaddafi certainly is not prone to return Mr. Noriega to the United States.'' Mr. Malman also said the Government had recovered photographs that show General Noriega's close relationship with Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader.
The Government also introduced photocopies of credit cards with General Noriega's name, including American Express, Visa and Chase Manhattan.
Although he refused to participate in the bond hearing portion of the hearing today, Mr. Rubino said in the interview that he would still file motions with the court pending a response from Administration officials on the prisoner-of-war claim.
Authorities in international law have generally said there was no legal justification for the seizure of General Noriega for trial. But they agreed that that would make little difference as to whether the defendant can actually be tried in United States courts. In a string of cases, courts in this country have consistently refused to look into how a defendant was brought into this country to stand trial. By RICHARD L. BERKE MIAMI, Jan. 26 - In an effort to avoid prosecution in the United States, Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega asserted today that he was a prisoner of war in this country, and his lawyers demanded that he be taken to a neutral country to stand trial.
General Noriega, the Panamanian dictator who surrendered to American authorities after United States troops invaded his country last month, made his claim in a brief letter to President Bush written in Spanish and delivered today to the White House.
Defense lawyers cited the letter in a motion in Federal District Court here, which asserted that the United States judicial system had no jurisdiction over the General.
But Judge William M. Hoeveler said he could not consider the motion immediately and reminded the lawyers that General Noriega was here for a bond hearing. After prosecutors presented evidence of the general's ownership of homes, sports cars and credit cards that they said could represent assets of as much as $30 million, making him a risk to flee the country if free, Judge Hoeveler ordered that the defendant continue to be held without bond on drug-trafficking charges.
People closely involved in the case said tonight that General Noriega would be moved in the next few days from his cell in the courthouse here to a more secure site at the Metropolican Correctional Center, a Federal prison south of Miami. A specially built cell is being prepared for General Noriega, these people said. This is an apparent compromise between defense lawyers and Federal officials, who wanted to move the general to a prison out of state.
 
General Is Called a Danger
The prosecutors also argued that General Noriega would be a danger to the community because he is expert in counter-terrorism and covert actions and still has loyal armed followers. ''It's alleged that Mr. Noriega used torture and violence when it suited his purposes,'' said Myles H. Malman, the deputy prosecutor in the case. ''Mr. Noriega is an extraordinary danger to the community.''
In asserting that General Noriega was a prisoner of war, defense lawyers argued that provisions of the Geneva Convention should allow him to be tried by an international tribunal like the World Court. General Noriega was captured as a result of an illegal military invasion, by the United States,'' the defense motion said, ''against the sovereignty of the Republic Panama.''
The defense lawyers said the brief letter to Mr. Bush was intended to put the Administration on notice that General Noriega was a prisoner of war.
 
'It's a Classic. It's a Classic'
Frank A. Rubino, the chief lawyer for General Noriega, insisted in an interview that the idea to claim prisoner-of-war status was a recent one and not the result of any deal or plan opening the way for General Noriega's surrender.
''Did I set it up long ago and far away?'' Mr. Rubino asked. ''No.'' The lawyer said he thought seriously about the prisoner of war argument ''ever since I saw him surrender,'' saying: ''It's classic. It's classic.''
A few days before the invasion in December, the Panamanian National Assembly of Representatives declared the country to be in a state of war against the United States because of American economic sanctions. General Noriega had appointed the assembly in October.
Mr. Rubino said he was seeking high drama with the disclosure of the letter to Mr. Bush, which was sent to the White House by overnight mail Thursday night, and the order filed with the court today. He could not hide his glee after the proceedings.
''Tell me they weren't upstaged today,'' Mr. Rubino said. speaking of the prosecution, adding, ''That was pathetic.''
But Mr. Malman responded to the defense declaration that General Noriega was a prisoner of war by telling the court, ''We categorically reject the arguments and the status he seeks for himself.''
The courtroom was full of theatrics, with lawyers on both sides seeking to dominate the proceedings and often sparring with one another.
In his opening addressss to the court, Mr. Malman criticized the defense lawyers for being too public, accusing them of seeking to try the case in the news media. ''We are here today to bring it back in the court room,'' he said.
Rather than respond to the prosecution's assertion that General Noriega was a risk to flee the country, Mr. Rubino said the court had no jurisdiction. At one point, he stood up and told the court: ''His name is Manuel Antonio Noriega. His rank is four-star general. His serial number is 001. Thank you.'' He then took his seat.
In the courtroom for the third time, General Noriega tried to look the role of a foreign leader. While in his last appearance, he wore a cotton shirt, he was dressed today in a tan open-necked uniform with the four stars of a general on the sleeves and dark pants. His lawyers addressed him as ''Prisoner of War General Manuel Antonio Noriega.'' Prosecutors called him, ''Mr. Noriega.''
The former Panamaian dictator, who sat stone-faced at the previous court appearances, was more animated today, laughing with his lawyers before the proceedings began and also during the session. At one point he broke out in a big smile when he caught the eye of the fiance of one of his lawyers, who was sitting in the front row among the spectators.
For the first time in a courtroom, the Government offered evidence today that prosecutors said showed General Noriega's vast wealth and connections to foreign leaders, who conceivably could offer him asylum.
As an example, Mr. Malman said the Government would show that General Noriega has a $400,000 condominium in Paris and that $5.8 million in cash was found by American authorities in envelopes marked ''confidential to my General'' at his ranch in Panama. Mr. Malman also said the Government had frozen $20 million in assets of General Noriega, mostly in Europe.
The proseuctor also said that as evidence of General Noriega's ties to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, ''we Were told that Mr. Noriega was the recipient of his and her Qaddafi watches.'' He added, ''Mr. Qaddafi certainly is not prone to return Mr. Noriega to the United States.'' Mr. Malman also said the Government has recovered photographs that show General Noriega's close relationship with Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader.
The Government also introduced photocopies of credit cards with General Noriega's name, including American Express, VISA and Chase Manhattan.
Although he refused to participate in the bond hearing portion of the hearing today, Mr. Rubino said in the interview that he would still file motions with the court pending a response from Administration officials on the prisoner-of-war claim.
''We can still proceed representing him,'' he said. ''This is a problem that has to be addressed now by the State Department.''
The lawyer said copies of General Noriega's letter had been sent to the Secretaries of State and Defense.
The authorities in international law have generally said there was no legal justification for the seizure of General Noriega for trial. But they agreed that that would make little difference as to whether the defendant can actually be tried in United States courts. In a string of cases, courts in this country have consistently refused to look into how a defendant was brought into this country to stand trial.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense lawyers for Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega asserted that the United States judicial system has no jurisdiction over the Panamanian leader. Steven Kollin, left, and Frank A. Rubino, talked to reporters after Federal court hearing yesterday in Miami. (The New York Times/Susan Greenwood); A facsimile copy of the letter Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega of Panama sent to President Bush. It reads: ''I, General Manuel Antonio Noriega, pursuant to Article 4 A (1) (3) of the Geneva Covention III of 12 August 1949, and the 1977 Geneva Protocol I, additional to the Geneva Convention, hereby claim prisoner-of-war status

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PANAMA (95%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; TRIALS; PRISONERS OF WAR LAWYERS (91%); PRISONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TORTURE (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); BAIL (78%); JURISDICTION (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); TERRORISM (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN); BERKE, RICHARD L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); RUBINO, FRANK A; KOLLIN, STEVEN GEORGE W BUSH (86%); 



630 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 4146 words

HEADLINE: THE 1991 BUDGET: Excerpts from Darman;
Darman Conducts a Tour of Wonderland: The Federal Budget

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
Here are excerpts from an unpublished version of the introduction to President Bush's budget written by Richard G. Darman, head of the Office of Management and Budget, using his own chapter headings.
 
Green Eyeshades And the Cookie Monster
If anything were meant for viewing through proverbial green eyeshades, it would seem to be the Federal budget. The typeface is small. The text is tedious. Tables are seemingly endless. 
The sheer size of the budget makes it seem like a monster. It contains almost 190,000 accounts. At the rate of one per minute, eight hours per day, it would take over a year to reflect upon these. The budget's annual outlays are larger than all countries' economies except those of the United States, Japan and the Soviet Union. (The Federal budget is roughly the size of the entire West German economy.) Clearly, at some point, green eyeshades must be put aside. Detail must be considered, but the capacity to abstract should not be lost.
Of course, with or without green eyeshades, monsters do not naturally invite examination. Still, if a monster is present, one might address certain threshold questions: Is it threatening or potentially helpful, and how is one to tell? The answers are not always as obvious as the questions.
On ''Sesame Street,'' the children's educational television program, there is a wonderful character known as Cookie Monster. As all monsters are, Cookie Monster is initially intimidating. His manner is gruff. His clumsiness occasionally causes damage.
But quickly, Cookie Monster comes to be seen as benign - indeed, downright friendly. He has a few bad habits. He cannot resist gobbling up anything and everything that might be consumed, especially cookies. And he cannot quite control the way he spews forth crumbs. He is the quintessential consumer. Yet clearly, he means no harm.
The budget, for all its intimidating detail, might be seen similarly: as the Ultimate Cookie Monster. Its excessive tendencies toward consumption are not exactly ennobling. (It does not ordinarily present itself as seriously concerned with investment.) But at the same time, its underlying motivation is clearly not malevolent. What harm it may cause is largely unintended. Its massive presence might be understood as little more than a compilation of cookies received, cookies crumbled, and crumbs spewed forth.
Yet, apt though the Cookie Monster perspective may be, it does not suffice. It is not quite fair to either Cookie Monster or the budget. In reality, a budget is not just a monstrous mass of cookies and crumbs. It is more: an implicit statement of values and expectations for the future. Inescapably, it is headed somewhere - or other. To gain a meaningful sense of the whole, and where it may be headed, one must look beyond green eyeshades and the Cookie Monster. One must frame the budget from several broader (and more serious) perspectives. . . .
 
And the Wall Came A-tumblin' Down . . .
Looking a bit beyond Cookie Monster to the television news, one is struck with a rare impression: there may be a compelling pattern to the flow of current events. It is not represented in the budget detail by any quantitative ''baseline,'' nor any conventional statistical measure. It was captured visually by a single dramatic symbol, beamed around the world and etched in the mind of people everywhere: the fall of the Berlin wall.
To put the symbolic fact more clinically: State-centered, command-and-control systems seem to be decomposing. The Soviet Union has been forced to explore the virtues of restructuring, decentralization, and openness. Communist regimes in Eastern Europe have been falling like dominoes. The Iron Curtain has been opened. And the drama has not been confined to Eastern Europe. Just as liberated celebrants have cheered the opening of the Berlin wall and the decline of Communist dictators, so, too, have liberated Panamanians celebrated the fall of the dictator in nearby Panama.
While it would be naively euphoric to consider this pattern ''the end of history'' (even in the limited Hegelian sense), clearly the sudden and dramatic shift toward pluralist democracy has far more than the ordinary historical significance. The events of 1989 and what they will have unleashed may one day rise to the place with those of 1688, 1776, or 1789. This is not small stuff. It is another giant leap of the human spirit yearning to breathe free.
Yet this great historical shift has been almost trivialized in its translation into public debate about the budget. The issue has been framed as: ''How big is the 'peace dividend'?'' - and, in effect, ''How can I get mine?'' These are issues that the budget and the political system must treat. They are discussed further in the budget. But they are second-order issues at best.
Ahead of them in line, surely, ought to be these points:
* The favorable pattern of recent events has not been caused exclusively by the political and economic bankruptcy of particular state-centered regimes. It has also resulted from U.S. (and allied) military and economic strength. These, in turn, have resulted form market-oriented economic policies and sound public and private investment policies. It would be a highly unfortunate irony if - just as the world were affirming more market-oriented and investment-oriented principles - the United States were to do anything other than strengthen its commitment to these very principles.
* As the world moves away from an emphasis on the risk of traditional military superpower conflict, the relative importance of U.S. economic strength only increases. Increased economic strength is essential to inspire and to assist evolving lesser powers. And it is fundamental to success in the global competition with rising economic superpowers.
* Thus there is a first-order issue for the budget (and the economic policy it represents): How can it best preserve and build on America's strengths, while advancing the American economy toward even greater capacities for leadership and growth? If the ''dividend'' metaphor must be applied to the budget: How can policy best assure that there is a continuing growth dividend?
 
How Big Is the Deficit? Let Me Count the Ways
In considering this issue, many traditional analysts turn first to the size of the budget deficit. This is not necessarily as relevant a starting point as many argue. But it is relevant. Unfortunately, a meaningful answer to the question, How big is the deficit? is not quite as simple as the question. This budget attempts to answer the question from a wide range of relevant perspectives. . . .
The Treatment of Social Security. Current law defines Social Security as ''off-budget,'' but requires its inclusion for purposes of G-R-H deficit calculations. Social Security is also included in traditional ''consolidated'' or ''unified'' deficit estimates. There are many good and important reasons to continue to include Social Security in these calculations.
But in recent years a problem has arisen. The increasing annual Social Security operating surpluses have masked the true size of the underlying non-Social Security operating deficit. In effect, the surpluses have allowed more non-Social Security spending than might otherwise have been the case. If this were long to continue, it would result in an excessive burden of debt for future generations. It would thus undermine the effect of the buildup of reserves intended for retiring baby-boomers.
To address this problem, without doing violence to the traditional concept of a consolidated budget, the Administration proposes to establish a ''Social Security Integrity and Debt Reduction Fund.'' It would receive each year, as outlays, an amount equivalent to an increasing portion of the projected Social Security operating surplus (reaching 100 percent in 1996). It would be obliged to use these outlays to reduce Federal debt and thus leave a more manageable financing burden for future generations. This Fund would be linked with a continuing obligation to meet a Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit target of zero (i.e., a permanent balanced budget) starting in 1993. Thus, the proposal would effectively prevent the Government from spending Social Security receipts on non-Social Security purposes. . . .
Alternative Economic Scenarios. In considering the deficit - by whatever definition - it is important to consider its sensitivity to economic variables. . . . The single most important variable affecting the size of the deficit is probably the real economic growth rate. As a practical matter, the net deficit-reducing effects of economic growth (or its absence) are likely to be far greater than the effects of a so called peace dividend. . . .
The Administration first presented its own economic assumptions in July 1989, at which point they were also judged to be at the optimistic end of the credible range. Intervening performance has, in fact, been highly consistent with the Administration's forecast. But that does not mean either that macroeconomic science has improved substantially, or that the Administration will always be so fortunate as to be correct.
In developing the budget, the Administration formally considered several alternative economic scenarios. . . .
Deficit Effects of Capital Budgets. The current budget concept - essentially a ''cash'' budget - was developed to conform with the President's Commission on Budget Concepts (1967). The ''cash'' perspective is especially useful for determining needs for financing in the public debt market. Indeed, it is essential. . . .
Some have argued that the Federal Government should adopt one form or another of capital budget and/or a budget that better distinguishes between trust funds, governmental operating needs and activities conducted by Government-sponsored enterprises. . . .
While these additional perspectives are useful, it is clear that they too are not fully satisfactory. . . . They necessarily suggest, but do not satisfactorily settle, many difficult issues of definition as to what is and is not investment. They do not adequately treat ''intellectual capital'' and ''human capital,'' for example. And they do not provide a dynamic picture of expected future liabilities and future returns.
Stepping back from this surfeit of deficits - all differently conceived and defined -one might summarize where the collection of different deficit pictures suggests things may be, and where they may be headed.
First, by several different deficit measures, the consolidated Federal deficit seems at worst to have stabilized. If the President's policies were adopted, this pattern of stabilization would obtain, in the near term, even if Social Security were excluded from deficit calculation. The pattern of continuous erosion that characterized the early and mid-1980's seems to have been broken. By many measures, the deficit is headed toward improvement - assuming that economic growth continues. . . .
There is reason to suggest that the traditional notion of the inevitability of a tight business cycle may be overtaken. But, to underline the obvious: Growth is not automatic. It depends on growth-oriented policies being pursued not only by the Administrationbut also by Congress and the Federal Reserve.
But, second, stabilization of the underlying deficit should not lead to complacency. Complacency would lead to a loss of fiscal discipline. And even with stabilization, deficits mean rising debt. America's recorded Federal debt is already approaching three trillion dollars. . . . That is not necessarily bad per se. It depends on whether or not the debt is being used in conjunction with policies that will increase future productivity, growth, and capacities for debt service - and whether future hidden liabilities are being kept within reasonable bounds. Here, unfortunately, is where conventional Federal deficit accounting and budget presentation have been woefully inadequate. And here is where there is legitimate cause for concern. . . .
 
Hidden Pac-Men
The problem with relying solely on the consolidated cash budget - or even on that plus a capital budget - is that it does not give a full picture of the Federal ''balance sheet.'' . . .
One curious thing about future Federal liabilities is that many of them are not yet fully visible. There particular nature varies. But each is like a hidden Pac-Man, waiting to spring forward and consume another line of resource dots in the budget maze. . . . A few introductory points may help outline the problem:
Rising Costs of Health Care. A quarter of a century ago, health care expenditures consumed about 6 percent of America's gross national product. Now, that share has almost doubled, to 12 percent. . . . There are, nonetheless, increasing demands to assure health insurance coverage for those not now covered, and to provide better financing for long term care. Each of these could entail an additional multi-billion dollar annual bill. Yet the projected health expenditure obligations of current law are not fully covered by projected future receipts. The estimated present value of unfunded liabilities (the actuarial deficiency) for Medicare hospital insurance alone would be over $250 billion. . . .
Rising Claims of Mandatory Programs. In President Kennedy's Administration transfer payments to individuals comprised about a quarter of the Federal budget. Now they consume almost half. . . . (Mandatory programs plus net interest expenditures account for almost 62 percent of the budget.) Since these programs generally have broad-based and well-represented beneficiary populations, they tend to have a powerful claim on resources and grow faster than the economy as a whole. Yet again: It would seem obvious that this pattern of more rapid growth cannot be extended indefinitely. . . .
Unfunded Retirement Program Liabilities. There is much talk about the projected build-up-of-Social-Security-reserves to cover the anticipated obligations to the baby-boom generation when it reaches retirement. . . . This is a speculative matter with a high degree of uncertainty. . . . Somewhat less speculatively, there are clearly identifiable major shortfalls in unfunded Federal employee retirement programs - although these should be able to be serviced by future contributions. . . .
Obligations to Clean Up Federal Facilities. For a variety of reasons, the Federal Government historically has not been prompt in attending to environmental cleanup at many of its facilities. For reasons of both law and policy, the pattern of the past is now changing. But the bills are yet to be fully paid. The present-value cost of already-identified future clean-up obligations and waste management improvements at Federal facilities over the next 30 years is on the order of $140-200 billion. . . .
Contingent Risks of Federal Credit Programs and Government-Sponsored Enterprises. The Federal Government's direct and indirect credit subsidies are far more extensive than is commonly appreciated. . . . The purposes of all this credit support are generally worthy. But there can be no denying that there is an enormous and increasing Federal exposure - approaching one trillion dollars in direct and federally guaranteed loans alone. This necessarily involves a risk of substantial future claims against the government. These claims are virtually certain to be in the tens of billions of dollars. Without continued economic growth, and the credit reforms proposed by the President, the claims would be substantially higher. . . .
Contingent Risks of Federal Insurance Programs. . . . These formal insurance programs cover bank deposits, pensions, veterans life insurance, crops, floods, overseas private investment, nuclear risks, and war risks. The total face value of this insurance coverage (excluding Medicare) exceeds four trillion dollars. . . . The likely future claims are virtually certain to be in the tens of billions of dollars. . . .
But it is important to put this, too, in perspective. The claims do not come due all at once. Indeed, they come due over an extended period of time. If one assumed that the likely range of unfunded claims were spread smoothly over the extensive time period in which they are to come due, one would reduce the total to a much less intimidating - indeed, a manageable - level.
This is not to say that there is not a built-in shortfall. There is. It is to say, rather, that the ''amortized' annual amount of the projected shortfall may be on the order of one-half to one percent of G.N.P., assuming the problem is managed on an orderly basis.
Over the long term, there are five ways this shortfall could be handled:
* By reducing the growth of future obligations - through ''mandatory'' program reforms, credit reforms, and insurance reforms;
* By reducing spending on other Federal programs where returns on investment are judged to be of lower relative value;
* By increasing the government's managerial integrity and efficiency
* By pursuing growth-oriented economic and budgetary policies - investing in the future - so that future economic productivity and Federal receipts are higher than otherwise projected;
* By increasing the relative burden of debt and/or new taxes (these latter approaches are not a part of the President's program).
 
Investing in the Future
As noted, ''Investing in the Future'' is a theme given special emphasis in the Budget Overview. It was first introduced to the presentation of the budget by the President, last year, in Building a Better America.
The emphasis is consistent with three fundamental points: First, a budget must be viewed as more than a static snapshot; it necessarily influences the future, and the nature of that influence must be examined. Second, there is a generally accepted moral obligation to try to leave future generations in a better position than their predecessors. Third, the obligations for future expenditures and debt service are more manageable insofar as current expenditures and tax policy contribute to increased growth. Together, these three points argue compellingly for attention to the extent to which a budget (and its associated economic policy) encourage investment - investment in the future.
The President's budget encourages investment in a host of ways.
 
Wonderland Revisited - The Current Congressional Path
In the presentation of the first Bush Administration budget, a critique of ''Wonderland'' budgeting was offered. It focused on the curious Washington habit (indeed, legal requirement) of ''current services baseline'' budgeting. Under this system, a ''cut'' may really be an increase; and a deficit said to be going ''down'' may really be going up. With ''current services'' built-in bias toward increasing expenditures, it should be little wonder that the system has failed to bring the deficit under satisfactory control.
In the mid-session review of the budget, O.M.B. introduced a new budget projection; the ''Current Congressional Path.'' This was done in order to underline what some might think an obvious point. That is, the deficit is not determined, in the end, by either ''current services'' projections or by mathematical extensions of a ''President's Policy.'' Forecasts based on such projections are almost always bound to be wrong. Budgets are legislated Congressional action (or inaction) is, therefore, a fundamental determinant of actual deficits. In trying to forecast realistically, it is important to have some sense of the ''Current Congressional Path.''
Unfortunately, however, the Current Congressional Path is not entirely clear. Indeed, Wonderland seems to be running wild with attractive fantasies, but without yet having established coherent direction. One might consider, for example, the two big games now in play - and a third that is soon to be:
 
The Spend-the-Peace-Dividend Game. This is a new game, premised on the assumption of a substantial, near-term ''peace dividend.'' Then each player plans to spend the dividend in his or her preferred way. The sum of all such planned expenditures totals about ten times the over-estimated dividend, which is itself perhaps five times the actual dividend. Thus, Washington entertains the notion of spending fifty times a dividend that has not yet definitively materialized - a true Wonderland phenomenon.
In reality, the near-term peace dividend is likely to be smaller than is commonly assumed for three reasons: First, the true cost of the previously planned and Congressionally approved defense program is substantially higher than the current D.O.D. funding levels (and higher than ''current services''). Much of the dividend will have to be used just to adjust the previous program downward toward current levels. Second, this adjustment - while politically popular in the abstract -will not be politically popular in all its particulars. Third, any tendency to cut further would likely focus on reducing U.S. troop strength abroad at a more rapid rate than proposed by the President - a more rapid rate than consistent with preserving a strong alliance and negotiating equitable and enforceable agreements with the Soviet Union. Presumably, these countervailing interests will be better appreciated as the debate about the ''peace dividend'' unfolds.
The Cut-Social-Security Game. This is ordinarily a very dangerous game politically. But in its most recent form, it has started with a superficially attractive proposal: to cut Social Security taxes. Clearly, that would be desirable if it could be done without significant cost to the people paying the taxes and to the economy as a whole. Unfortunately, the most recent proposal to attract significant attention fails that test.
It is ironic in three respects. First, some of its advocates have argued, until recently that the Government was underfinanced (and undertaxed) not overfinanced. Yet few, in fact, can seriously argue that the Government as a whole is overfinanced. Second, the emerging conventional wisdom had been that one needed to do more to protect the capacity to pay future Social Security benefits, not less.
Cutting Social Security taxes now would mean giving up on that objective - giving up on the bipartisan commitment to build up reserves for the future retirement needs of the baby boom generation. Third, and perhaps most telling. Cutting Social Security taxes now would likely hurt the very people it is ostensibly intended to benefit today's workers. I would either force an increase in their non-Social Security taxes (to compensate for the enormous revenue loss $55 billion in 1991 alone or it would force a reduction in their future retirement benefits. . . .
The President's proposal to establish a ''Social Security Integrity and Debt Reduction Fund'' is a responsible way to protect the future interests of today's workers. But Social Security is a notoriously volatile subject when it enters the political domain; and whether rationality will prevail remains to be determined.
The Beat-the-Budget Game. This is the game that begins with the reaction to the President's budget. It has become an annual ritual. At the start, it is predictably partisan. Priorities are judged to be incorrect. Economic assumptions are ridiculed (but later adopted). Gimmicks are scorned (but later outdone). The failure of the budget process is lamented (but ideas for evasion proliferate). The refusal to raise ''new taxes'' is condemned (as proposals to cut taxes are advanced). Incentives for savings and investment are criticized for their alleged adverse effects on the deficit (as alternative proposals to increase the deficit are advocated). Stalemates are followed by ''heroic compromises'' that earn the parties self-congratulation, but somehow manage to leave much of the serious job to the future. And the public, understandably grows more skeptical.
It may be apt to view all this metaphorically as a set of children's games; the Budget as Cookie Monster; its future threatened by hidden Pac-Men; its path a journey through Wonderland. But at some point, it is appropriate to put games aside - at least for a while. At some point, there is an obligation to be serious. At some point, partisan posturing must yield to the responsibility to govern. Sooner or later, the American political system will rise to the responsibility to be serious; to complete the job of fiscal policy correction. It may do this in small steps or large. It cannot do it with sidesteps. This year's budget meets the responsibility to be serious. . . . This, of course, is not to assert that the budget will be treated seriously in the very next Beat-the-Budget Game. It is simply to suggest that it should be.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush is preparing to submit a $1.2 trillion budget based on a dramatic deficit decline. Working on a draft of the budget was Richard G. Darman, the budget director, whose introductory essay lectures Congress about its ''responsibility to be serious.'' (The New York Times/Paul Hosefros)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (56%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DARMAN, RICHARD G GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



631 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: The 1991 Budget: Military;
Lawmakers Scurrying To Protect Home Bases

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
D-day in the battle of the military budget came to Congress three days early as lawmakers mobilized today to protect bases in their districts that are among scores of candidates that Defense Secretary Dick Cheney is considering for closure.
The news of possible base closings, always an alarming prospect for lawmakers whose districts benefit from the jobs and income they create, prompted a Congressman from Philadelphia to call a news conference at the gates of a shipyard that is on the list.
Republican legislators called the White House to complain, and members of Congress of both parties predicted a huge fight over which bases would actually be closed. ''So far, there are two questions asked,'' said one White House official. ''Is it true? And is there anything in my district?'' 
The Congressional anxiety over even the suggestion that some bases might be closed points up the paradox of the current fervor to cut military spending. While legislators are eager to spend what is sometimes called ''the peace dividend,'' it is another thing to find the money being taken from their home districts.
The list, which will be released on Monday, includes the possible closing of the Army base at Fort Ord, Calif., and Navy bases in the San Francisco Bay area as well as the Philadelphia Navy Yard. Among the bases and units being considered for extensive cutbacks are the Army National Guard's 42d Infantry Division in New York City and the Army base at Fort Hood, Tex.
While Bush Administration officials briefed members of Congress today on possible base closings, others were in West Europe telling leaders of allied countries about proposals for shutting down bases overseas.
 
Fighting Civilians' Decisions
Aides to the military service chiefs circulated through the corridors of the Capitol working against other cuts -these in jealously guarded weapons programs - that will be included in the Administration's military budget for the fiscal year 1991.
This leaves the military arguing against decisions made by their civilian bosses, a common practice that is likely to increase as military budgets get tighter. The practice enrages Mr. Cheney, who dressed down the Air Force Chief of Staff, Gen. Larry D. Welch, last year after the general's involvement in a delicate political negotiation on Capitol Hill was disclosed.
Mr. Cheney will present the Pentagon budget on Monday, but it is still not clear how much detail the budget will provide on President Bush's long-range objectives for the United States military at a time when the threat of Soviet power is receding.
The budget will be accompanied by the list of bases, which Mr. Cheney was personally reviewing today and could revise over the weekend as he consults with his staff and members of Congress, officials said.
Mr. Bush has promised that the new budget will reflect the beginning of the transition to ''a new strategy,'' but Mr. Cheney told reporters at a Pentagon luncheon today that the document would not propose fundamental changes. ''I don't think you need a new strategy,'' he said. ''I think you need some adjustments, some changes, but the overall strategic framework that we pursued for 40 years is basically sound.''
Still, Mr. Cheney said the 1991 budget will start the process of scaling back the military after the $2 trillion buildup under President Ronald Reagan.
For the first time, the Pentagon will propose an actual cut in military spending after accounting for inflation. That proposal will be for a decline of 2 percent, to $303.3 billion, Congressional officials said today. That includes $11.2 billion that will be spent by the Department of Energy on nuclear weapons production and the environmental cleanup of the weapons production plants.
Mr. Cheney would not discuss specific budget figures before his formal announcement Monday. But he said he was leaving the Pentagon's strategic programs largely intact, including plans to develop two mobile nuclear missiles.
The Administration, he said, was seeking a 20 percent increase in the budget for development of the ''Star Wars'' anti-missile shield. Other Administration officials said the 1991 proposal for the program would be $4.8 billion, up from $3.8 billion last year.
Development of the B-2 Stealth bomber is under review, Mr. Cheney said. Administration officials said the Pentagon would ask for five of the airplanes in 1991, but the overall program, which is under intense pressure in Congress because of its expected cost of $71 billion, is likely to be slowed or cut back.
The most significant cuts envisioned by the Administration are expected to come in non-nuclear weaponry and personnel. Mr. Cheney said today that if current military and political trends continue, he expects the Army's 28 divisions to be reduced to 23 and the 36 Air Force wings to be cut to 31.
There also will be ''significant reductions'' in the Navy, Mr. Cheney said. Those are expected to start with the retirement of two of the four battleships, but Mr. Cheney said he was not recommending a reduction in the Navy's 14 aircraft carrier battle groups.
Mr. Cheney's plans to make significant cuts in military bases were applauded by Representative John R. Kasich, a conservative Republican from Ohio who was a staunch defender of the Reagan buildup. He criticized members of Congress who oppose closing military bases. ''Everyone on Capitol Hill preaches that we don't have a World War II threat and we don't need this World War II military,'' he said. ''Fine, but that means you don't need all the troops and you don't need all the bases.''
Mr. Cheney's unorthodox methods stirred a great deal of anxiety on Capitol Hill. Normally, possible base closings are not made public until the last minute or political cover is given, as it was last year, when Congress approved closing or cutting back 86 other military installations, but only after the names were chosen by an independent commission.
''This is kind of crazy,'' said Representative G. V. (Sonny) Montgomery, a Mississippi Democrat with close ties to the White House. ''The Secretary hasn't even signed off on the list and it's just getting everybody stirred up, but maybe that's what they want to do.''
Representative Thomas M. Foglietta, Democrat of Pennsylvania, scrambled to protect the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard, which is in his district. He held a news conference in Washington, made an emergency call to Mr. Cheney, and then made another appearance at the shipyard.
''We realize that there are going to have to be cuts,'' Mr. Foglietta said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, whose list of possible base closings spurred lawmakers to protect bases in their districts. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY GUARDIAN (55%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY BASES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); NAVIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CLOSINGS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AIR FORCES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); SHIPBUILDING (71%); 

PERSON: CHENEY, DICK (SEC); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW DICK CHENEY (90%); 



632 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: The Price of Fudging on S & L's

 BODY:
The savings and loan troubles became a crisis because Washington dawdled. Losses at just one thrift, California's big Lincoln Savings and Loan, topped $2 billion because regulators dawdled. Even after President Bush proposed remedial legislation, hundreds of insolvent S & L's bled needlessly last year while Congress dawdled some more. The bill is law now, but the cost continues to climb, this time because of Administration dawdling. 
The immediate issue is working capital - temporary funding until the Government sells the assets of bankrupt thrifts it bails out. Officials hinted to Congress this week that they will also seek additional permanent funding, but not until after the November elections. Meanwhile, as much as $100 billion in working capital may be needed.
These added billions will be paid out to depositors of bankrupt thrifts, and will be at least partially recouped some day. But until then, the Government must borrow the money. The political appearances of that borrowing, no matter how sensible and temporary, scare the socks off the Administration.
The fears were evident in the brouhaha last fall over putting the original $50 billion on-budget or off-budget. The Administration still wants desperately to look as though it is reducing the deficit without raising taxes. Thus, it prefers off-budget financing that isn't counted in official totals.
Congress balked last year. The Democrats weren't interested in burnishing President Bush's fiscal image. In the end they compromised, but key members insisted that future funding be on-budget. The Administration agreed to do nothing without their approval, and promised a plan by Jan. 15. It missed the deadline. Then, regulators outlined three plans - one on-budget and the other two off.
The on-budget scheme is clearly preferable. The Treasury's Federal Financing Bank would borrow the money and lend it to the Resolution Trust Corporation, the bailout manager. That's honest budgeting. It's also cheaper than the other two approaches because interest rates are lower when the Government borrows directly.
More weeks will pass before it's decided which way to go. Meanwhile, on Monday Mr. Bush will submit a fiscal 1991 budget that conveniently omits these billions, thus ducking the embarrassment of a deficit that isn't shrinking as much as he pretends.
Dawdling jacked up the cost of this crisis. Further dawdling threatens more of the same.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; BANKRUPTCIES; FEDERAL AID (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINANCES; EDITORIALS; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS SAVINGS & LOANS (92%); BANK FAILURES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); WORKING CAPITAL (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



633 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Alternate Energy Sources Can Be Economical

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The Northeast pipeline, proposed and scheduled, is a classic example of dealing with the symptom, not the problem (''In Northeast, a Battle Over Fuel,'' Business Day, Jan. 8). The pipeline, and the natural gas it will carry, provides only a temporary fix for the near future. 
As the demand for energy increases, the supply dwindles. One needs no degree in economics to know what happens to the price and availability of a limited resource when a handful of people control it and everyone wants it. Nor is natural gas the environmental messiah of electricity production. Compared with oil and coal it is relatively clean burning, but for every 1,000 megajoules received, 18 kilograms (39.6 pounds) of natural gas produce 50 kilograms (110 pounds) of carbon dioxide.
The long-term, cost-effective solution lies in substitution. For example, there is financially viable technology available today for solar hot water producton. With this technology, a family of four with average hot water use could purchase this system and realize total payback within five years. That's at current energy costs. With a 20-year life cycle, the return on investment is outstanding, without including any environmental benefits.
 
JAMES C. VANCE
President, Alternate Energy Group
 Butler, N.J., Jan. 11, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THE LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK OF JAPAN LTD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHEASTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); PIPELINES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (50%); 

PERSON: VANCE, JAMES C



634 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: THE CRASH OF FLIGHT 52;
A Respected Air Carrier Based in a Troubled Land

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
Since its founding in 1919 by a group of former World War I flying aces from Germany, Avianca, the Colombian national airline, has been the object of international intrigue and a target of political violence. But it has maintained a respectable safety record throughout, aviation experts said yesterday.
In the late 30's the United States Government fretted that Nazi agents might be planning to use Avianca planes to bomb the Panama Canal and persuaded the Colombian Government to force out German investors and pilots.
A half-century later, large quantities of cocaine have repeatedly been found aboard Avianca planes, prompting renewed friction with the United States. And in the last several years, Avianca executives and aircraft have come under increased attack in the violent Colombian drug wars. 
A bomb destroyed an Avianca Boeing 727 shortly after takeoff from Medellin in November, killing 110 people in an attack widely attributed to drug lords seeking to kill police informers on the flight. A Boeing 747 belonging to Avianca crashed in 1983 about 15 minutes before it was scheduled to land at Barajas Airport in Madrid, killing 183 people.
 
Lauded by Experts
Yet Colombia's flag carrier retains a strong reputation for competency among airline experts. For 70 years, its pilots have made fairly few mistakes while flying in a mountainous country that often allows little room for error, said Daniel P. Hagedorn, a librarian specializing in Latin American aviation at the National Air and Space Museum in Washington.
Avianca, whose name stands for Aerovias Nacionales de Colombia S.A., does a good job of maintaining its equipment and has very competent maintenance executives, said William Worsham, president and chief operating officer of Greenwich Air Services Inc., an aircraft and engine-maintenance company in Miami. ''The people I know from Avianca are first-rate people,'' he said, adding that the Avianca jet engines his company had serviced ''were in good shape.''
Drug traffickers and money launderers have periodically tried to smuggle cocaine and large sums of money aboard Avianca flights. An Avianca Boeing 747 was briefly impounded in 1988 by the Customs Service after the discovery of 422 pounds of cocaine. In 1986, gunmen on a speeding motorcycle shot to death the security chief of the line two days after he had led an operation that found $5 million of cocaine on an Avianca cargo jet bound for Miami.
 
Headquarters in Bogota
Avianca has paid $500,000 in drug-related fines, said William G. Bell, a partner in a law firm in Miami, Holland & Knight. Mr. Bell is the outside counsel for Avianca for most of its litigation here. The company headquarters is in Bogota, and its stock is traded on the Bogota Exchange. Avianca has an extensive routes across South America, North America and Europe, with flights from Bogota to London, Paris, Frankfurt, Madrid, Miami and Los Angeles, as well as New York.
The line is insured through underwriters in London, Mr. Bell said. He declined to discuss the coverage, but said it was adequate to pay for suits that might result from the crash of Flight 52. ''They have a lot of insurance,'' he added.
Avianca lost money heavily in the mid-80's during the economic downturn in Latin America, but turned around after a series of management changes. The company posted a profit of $5.3 million on sales of $305.5 million in 1988, according to figures published by the International Air Transport Association in Montreal.
Avianca officials in Miami and Bogota did not return telephone calls yesterday about the finances.
The crash is unlikely to have a long-term impact on Avianca ticket sales, because bilateral treaties signed by the Colombian Government guarantee the line a large share of international flights to Colombia, said George W. James, president of Airline Economics, a consulting business in Washington.
He compared the effect of the crash to an increase in taxicab fares. ''People tend to boycott it for a while,'' Mr. James said. ''But after a while, they realize that's the game in town, and they go back to using it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (66%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (66%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (51%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PANAMA (92%); SPAIN (92%); GERMANY (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); FRANCE (50%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (93%); MADRID, SPAIN (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (84%); GREENWICH AIR SERVICES INC (66%); AEROVIAS DEL CONTINENTE AMERICANO SA (66%); HOLLAND & KNIGHT LLP (51%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (54%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AVIANCA AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY AIRLINES (95%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (91%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); COCAINE (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); WORLD WAR I (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); SMUGGLING (75%); DRUG POLICY (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (63%); LEGAL SERVICES (63%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (61%); LAWYERS (60%); LITIGATION (60%); MONEY LAUNDERING (50%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH



635 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST: SATURDAY, JANUARY 27, 1990

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
 President Bush is preparing to send Congress a $1.2 trillion budget that envisions a dramatic decline in the Federal deficit to roughly half its level in the current fiscal year. [Page 1.] Federal regulators said they would file an administrative action accusing President Bush's son Neil of conflicts of interest while he was a director of the Silverado Banking, Savings and Loan Association. The Denver-based institution collapsed in 1988. The regulators' action is certain to embarrass the White House in view of the expensive bailout of the savings and loan industry. [1.] The nation's economy grew at an annual rate of 0.5 percent in the final three months of 1989, the weakest economic performance since spring 1986, but many analysts said the country is likely to be able to avoid a recession. Spending by consumers declined slightly, and only continued production of cars and other goods that ended up unsold kept the overall gross national product from shrinking. [35.] Orders to factories for durable goods, those expected to last more than three years, rose 2.5 percent in December. [36.] President Bush has decided to give Carla A. Hills, the U.S. Trade Representative, the lead role in negotiating a new trade treaty with the Soviet Union, rather than Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher. The decision caps weeks of fighting by the two Cabinet agencies, each eager to enlarge turf as the United States fulfills a pledge at the Malta summit to complete a trade agreement with Moscow by June. [35.]
 
 
 
Companies
 Eastern Airlines proposed a reorganization plan that would give unsecured creditors less than 50 cents on the dollar. The creditors, mainly banks and aircraft manufacturers, were said to be unhappy with the proposal. [35.] The Bank of New England has begun borrowing from the Federal Reserve. The Boston bank, which has to borrow to make up for the loss of large uninsured deposits, is believed to account for almost all of the $478 million lent by the Boston Fed. [47.] Texas Instruments said its fourth-quarter earnings fell 62.3 percent as sales of computer chips slowed and prices declined sharply in the period. The company also said it could report a loss in the current quarter. [37.] Rosewood Financial, the investment concern controlled by Caroline Rose Hunt, made a bid for First Executive. [36.] General Electric will join an investor from Salt Lake City in his effort to acquire Aristech Chemical. [37.] Nissan will invest $25 million in a project to make engines for a mini-van that will be built by Nissan with Ford. [37.] 20th Century Fox's request to the F.C.C. to change the rules that prevent television networks from having a financial interest in the programs they broadcast, has provoked an angry reaction from Hollywood movie studios. [36.]
 
 
 
Markets
 The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 1.81 points, to 2,559.23, continuing its decline. The average was down 118.67 for the week and 251 below the high set at the start of the year. [35.] Treasury bond prices fell to their lowest level since June 1 as investors anticipated further declines. [42.] The dollar fell against the pound and the yen, but rose against most other currencies. [43.] Gasoline futures prices rose sharply, leading the whole energy group to a higher close. [43.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 The acne medicine that has been talked about as a potential ''anti-aging'' cream is the subject of a bitter fight. Patents. [37.]
 People nearing retirement can rearrange investments to obtain more income and increase charitable giving. Your Money. [36.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (52%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (52%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (80%); SILVERADO BANKING SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION (72%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (54%); BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (53%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (85%); RECESSION (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BANK FAILURES (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); DURABLE GOODS (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); CHEMICALS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); AIRCRAFT MFG (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); AIRLINES (64%); COMPUTER CHIPS (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



636 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Carla Hills to Lead Soviet Trade Talks

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
In a setback for Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher, President Bush has decided to give the United States trade representative, Carla A. Hills, the lead role in negotiating a new trade treaty with the Soviet Union, Administration officials said today.
The decision caps weeks of fighting by the two Cabinet agencies, each eager to enlarge its area of influence as the United States fulfills a pledge made at the Malta summit meeting to complete a trade agreement with Moscow by June.
In terms of ideology, there is no particular difference between the officials, but the decision puts the trade representative at center stage in one of the hottest trade issues of the next few months.
There was no formal announcement, but an official who asked not to be identified said that despite the long personal friendship between Mr. Bush and Mr. Mosbacher, both former Texas oilmen, the President chose Mrs. Hills because he felt the United States would be better served by an experienced trade negotiator. 
''U.S.T.R. will drive a harder bargain with the Soviets,'' this official commented.
 
The Effect in Congress
 Sarah C. Carey, a partner in the law firm of Heron Burchette Ruckert & Rothwell, who closely monitors Soviet trade issues, said, ''It's a real plus for the U.S.T.R. to be taking the lead.''
In deciding in Mrs. Hills's favor, the President gave oversight to the Trade Policy Review Group, an interagency coordinating group led by the trade office. Commerce, Treasury, State, the Office of Management and Budget and Defense are among other agencies that sit on this committee.
The President's decision is likely to be popular in Congress, which gave added powers to the trade representative in 1988.
The agency is a coordinator of trade policy in the executive branch and a trade negotiator, points that Mrs. Hills made in her effort to win the job, officials said.
In the past other agencies, like the Treasury and the State Department, have encroached on the trade representative's negotiating functions.
Mrs. Hills, a former trade lawyer, already has a broad agenda as the Government's leading person for the Uruguay Round of international trade negotiations and for coordinating trade policies toward Europe and Japan.
 
Mosbacher's Case
 To support his case, Mr. Mosbacher, officials said, cited the expertise his department has built up both in promoting nonstrategic Soviet trade and in managing the export controls that deny the Soviets high technology that could be militarily useful.
The last time the United States and the Soviet Union sat down to write a trade agreement, in 1972, 1973 and 1974, the Commerce Department ran the show under Peter G. Peterson, now an investment banker.
Moscow stopped that pact after Congress passed the Jackson-Vanik Amendment to the Trade Act of 1974, which links trade concessions by the United States to human-rights progress by the Soviets.
Another argument advanced by Commerce was that it represents the United States on the U.S.-U.S.S.R. Joint Commercial Commission, a body set up in 1972 to foster trade links between the two countries.
Mr. Mosbacher, who met with his Soviet counterpart on the commission, Konstantin F. Katushev, in November in Washington, wanted the negotiations to be conducted in the framework of the commission.
Commerce is a huge, venerable, conglomerate agency employing more than 35,000 people. Besides promoting trade, it manages the weather forecasting service, prepares economic statistics and runs the patent and trademark office, among many other functions.
 
Cooperation Is Emphasized
 On the other hand, the trade representative's office is one of the smallest agencies, with a staff of about 135. It was formed in 1962. It has not had much of a role in East-West trade, although in recent years it has led in negotiations with the Soviets to write a long-term grain agreement.
Officials of both the trade office and the Commerce Department played down the empire-building aspects of their struggle over the issue.
''We're a team,'' Mrs. Hills said. ''We have worked and will continue to work hand in glove with Bob Mosbacher and his staff in this and in all matters. They are as essential to this process as U.S.T.R.''
She maintained that all the President had done was to continue interagency cooperation.
Marion Blakey, an aide to Mr. Mosbacher, said the trade representative had the authority for trade negotiations. ''In light of that, the decision that U.S.T.R. would lead the delegation is perfectly straightforward. There was no turf battle here.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush has decided to give United States Trade Representative Carla A. Hills the lead role in negotiating a new trade treaty with the Soviet Union. The move is seen as a setback for Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher, who was photographed with Mrs. Hills after they were named to the Bush Administration's economic team. (NYT/Jose R. Lopez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); MALTA (72%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (52%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); LAWYERS (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); EXPORT CONTROLS (66%); BUDGETS (64%); 

PERSON: HILLS, CARLA A (TRADE REPR); MOSBACHER, ROBERT A SR (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H GEORGE W BUSH (92%); PETE PETERSON (51%); 



637 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: G.N.P. Rate Up by 0.5% In Quarter

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
The nation's economy grew at a rate of five-tenths of 1 percent in the final three months of 1989, the Commerce Department estimated today. It was the weakest economic performance since the spring of 1986.
Spending by consumers, who account for about two-thirds of economic activity, declined slightly, and only continued production of cars and other goods that ended up in unsold inventories kept the overall gross national product from contracting.
Nonetheless, the quarterly report on G.N.P., and a separate report that showed surprising strength in orders for durable goods in December, reassured many private-sector analysts that the economy could continue to avoid recession. Economic activity is likely to perk up, albeit gradually, in coming months, these analysts said. 
 
Sluggish Period Foreseen
''I read the combination of the two as saying the economy is skirting a recession but is in for further sluggishness,'' said Robert G. Dederick, chief economist at the Northern Trust Company in Chicago.
Administration officials offered similar assessments. The Under Secretary of Commerce, Michael R. Darby, told reporters that the G.N.P. report reflected ''temporary sluggishness and a number of soft spots in the economy, partly stemming from special factors.''
He and others cited a strike by Boeing Company employees that was estimated to have cut fourth-quarter growth by five-tenths of a percentage point and a steep decline in vehicle sales after a third-quarter buying spurt induced by manufacturers' incentive programs.
The fourth-quarter rise of five-tenths of 1 percent is a sharp falloff from the 3 percent gain posted for the third quarter.
 
Yearly Rise Is 2.9%
 For the year, real G.N.P. rose 2.9 percent, compared with gains of 4.4 percent in 1988, 3.7 percent in 1987 and 2.7 percent in 1986. Between the fourth quarter of 1988 and the fourth quarter of 1989 the increase was 2.4 percent, compared with 3.4 percent in the previous comparable period.
Today's G.N.P. report, which was in line with expectations, appeared to have little effect on the financial markets, but the 2.5 percent jump in durable-goods orders was said by traders to have been a significant cause of yesterday's rise in interest rates, contributing to another sharp selloff in stocks early in the day. By the close of trading, however, the stock market had regained much of its loss.
Economists said that unseasonably harsh year-end weather had a mixed effect on the report. The bad weather curtailed construction and mining, but raised spending on home heating by a seasonally adjusted $6 billion, after little change in the third quarter. The nation as a whole had its fourth-coldest December of the century, and it was the coldest December on record in the Northeast, Midwest and Southeast.
Department analysts said Hurricane Hugo and the Northern California earthquake in October had only small net effects on economic activity.
Even as the risk of imminent recession seemed to recede a bit, the G.N.P. report prompted speculation about a possible suspension of the deficit-reduction process mandated by the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act. Under the act, if the economy grows by less than 1 percent for two straight quarters, Congress and the President may agree to waive its provisions requiring automatic cuts in Federal spending.
 
What Congress Might Do
 But a senior adviser to Congress on budget matters said that although some lawmakers might welcome a way to escape making budgetary moves that would further weaken a fragile economy, such a move could be offset by the Federal Reserve, which would be concerned over a loss of budgetary discipline and would probably move to tighten credit.
He added that he would not assume that a measure to suspend the balanced-budget law would be approved even if the fourth-quarter results, after probable revision, and the data from the current quarter made a suspension permissible. What really matters, he said, is the outlook for the economy later in the year.
The G.N.P. report did have some sobering figures on inflation. The fixed-weight G.N.P. price index climbed at a 3.8 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, up from 2.9 percent during the summer. This acceleration reflected higher prices of goods and services bought by consumers, the department said.
Another inflation gauge, the implicit price deflator, accelerated to 3.5 percent, from 3.2, but this is considered a less useful indicator because it measures a changing basket of goods and services. The fixed-weight index, with a base year of 1982, measures a basket whose composition does not vary.
The biggest drag on fourth-quarter G.N.P. was a decline of one-tenth of 1 percent in consumer spending, the first contraction in two years. While this was small, just $800 million at an annual rate, it meant that the biggest force in the economy was contributing nothing to G.N.P.
 
Savings Rate Shows a Gain
 The cutback in spending did, however, allow the personal savings rate to rise to 5.8 percent, from 5.1. Raising the nation's savings rate is a key goal of policy makers. Initiatives to promote savings are expected to be presented Monday in President Bush's 1991 budget proposals.
Consumers' purchases of durable goods - costly items expected to last more than three years - fell during the quarter at an annual rate of $14.8 billion, in contrast to an increase of $11.5 billion in the third quarter. A wide swing in vehicle sales accounted for all the increase and the subsequent drop. Sales of nondurable goods fell $3.3 billion after rising $11.1 billion during the summer.
Fixed investment by business moved from an increase to a decline; the categories of net exports and Government purchases showed declines that were smaller than those in the previous quarter, and investment in housing rose a bit after declining in the third quarter.
When combined, these resulted in a drop of five-tenths of 1 percent in real final sales, in contrast to a 2.7 percent increase in the preceding quarter. When the Commodity Credit Corporation's purchases of farm products are excluded, final sales dropped eight-tenths of 1 percent after surging 3.8 percent in the third quarter.
 
A Rise in Inventories
 Business inventories, dominated by unsold cars, jumped $32.6 billion after increases of $21.9 billion in the third quarter and $19.1 billion in the second. This meant that investment added $10.7 billion in the latest period, compared with $2.8 billion in the third quarter.
The report also showed that G.N.P., when expressed in current dollars rather than 1982 dollars, rose at a 4.3 percent rate in the latest quarter, down from 6.2 percent in the summer.
Real fourth-quarter G.N.P. was at a rate of $4.17 trillion, or $5.34 trillion when expressed in current dollars, the report showed.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Gross national product, 1985-1989 (Source: Commerce Dept.); charts: current prices and 1982 prices for G.N.P., Consumption, Business investment, Inventory change, Housing, Net exports, Government, and Memo: final sales* (*G.N.P. less inventory change) (Source: Commerce Dept.) (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (83%); BOE (LSE) (67%); BAB (BRU) (67%); BA (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NORTHERN TRUST CORP (83%); BOEING CO (67%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP); LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); WEATHER (62%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR



638 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Chip Maker In Texas Has Profit Drop

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Jan. 26

 BODY:
Texas Instruments said today that its fourth-quarter earnings fell 62.3 percent as sales of computer chips slowed and prices declined dramatically in the period.
Moreover, the company cautioned that it could report a loss in the current quarter. It cited a further slowing in chip orders, a slump in military orders, and large costs for new products and expanded chip production in Italy, Taiwan, Japan and at company headquarters in Dallas. 
Texas Instruments said it earned $35.9 million, or 33 cents a share, in the fourth quarter, compared with $95.3 million, or $1.04 a share, in the comparable period a year ago. Sales in the quarter fell slightly, to $1.72 billion from $1.73 billion.
 
20.4% Earnings Drop in Year
 For the year, earnings fell 20.4 percent, to $291.7 million, or $3.04 a share, from $366.3 million, or $4.05 a share, in 1988. Revenues rose a bit, to $6.52 billion from $6.45 billion.
Analysts said Texas Instruments' troubles would be temporary if the American economy continued to grow, but a recession and more price cutting would make 1990 a difficult year for the company and most other chip makers.
''The semiconductor industry is in a major downturn right now, which is acquiring momentum,'' said Richard L. Whittington, an analyst at Kidder, Peabody Inc. in New York. Referring to Texas Instruments, he added, ''They will certainly feel the pain.''
Texas Instruments Inc. is the nation's largest maker of memory chips and is second, after Motorola Inc., in total chip production.
 
Slowing in Global Sales
 Jerry R. Junkins, chairman and chief executive, said the slowing in worldwide sales of computers and other products that use large numbers of electronic components, like automobiles and telecommunications equipment, intensified in the fourth quarter and pushed chip sales below expectations.
Mr. Junkins added that he expected that the decline in sales in the current quarter would be ''sharper than normal'' because of a shift from production of aging products to newer ones. This deterioration ''could lead to a loss'' for the quarter, he added.
Prices for computer chips with 256,000 characters of memory plunged in the last 12 months to about $2 apiece, from $6. Newer one-megabit chips with one million characters of information also declined sharply in price, to $6.50 from $16, as producers around the globe raised their output.
 
Outlook on Output
 Jack Beedle, president of In-Stat Inc., a research firm in Scottsdale, Ariz., said worldwide output of the one-megabit chips would reach 550 million units this year. Output of the 256k chips will fall to about 400 million units, he said, from 620 million in 1989.
Texas Instruments anticipated the shift, spending heavily in the last two years. It is also preparing to begin mass production on a chip with four million characters of information in Italy, Taiwan, Japan and at its Dallas headquarters. Analysts say that chip will be in wide demand in 1991.
Analysts said two Japanese rivals, Toshiba and Hitachi, have a significant lead in production capability for the 4-megabit chip.
A spokesman, Stan Victor, said the company had cut 2,700 jobs worldwide in 1989, mostly through voluntary retirement programs.
Texas Instruments' shares were down $1.875, to $31.875, today on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (93%); MSI (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (93%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (93%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); JAPAN (91%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (93%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (66%); IN-STAT INC (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); MEMORY CHIPS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (76%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 



639 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Down Against Pound And Yen, but Up Elsewhere

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished mixed yesterday, weakening against the British pound and Japanese yen but rising against many other currencies in heavy trading.
Gold prices rose. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, an ounce of gold gained $4.10 to close at $420.10. The Republic National Bank later quoted a bid of $420 an ounce, up $3 from Thursday. 
Most of the day's trading activity centered on the yen, which investors continued to buy aggressively. Analysts said the interest in the yen was partly spurred by optimism about the future of Japan's governing Liberal Democratic Party as February elections draw closer.
But the dollar suffered as investors sold the United States currency to buy yen. ''There are fears that foreigners are withdrawing from U.S. markets,'' said Marc Chandler, an analyst at MMS International in Chicago.
He said traders were edgy in advance of the Treasury's quarterly refunding. Treasury officials are expected to announce next week their schedule for the sale of an estimated $30 billion in bonds, the proceeds of which are used to keep the Government running.
Foreigners, who have been attracted to United States investments by relatively high interest rates, need dollars to buy debt securities. But Mr. Chandler noted that rising interest rates in other countries - especially in Japan - had created fears that foreigners would shun the American bonds.
The dollar got a bit of a boost yesterday from a Government report that showed the gross national product grew at an annual rate of five-tenths of a percent in the final quarter of 1989. Although the figure, which represents the country's total output of goods and services, was the poorest showing since the spring of 1986, it was better than the market had expected and initially bolstered the dollar.
In New York, the dollar closed at 142.80 yen, down from 143.93 yen on Thursday. And it cost $1.6635 to buy a pound, more expensive than the $1.6600 late Thursday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Thursday's rates, included: 1.6865 West German marks, up from 1.6850; 1.4900 Swiss francs, up from 1.4850; 5.7290 French francs, up from 5.7255; 1,254.50 Italian lire, up from 1,253.75, and 1.1966 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1876.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; FUTURES TRADING CURRENCIES (91%); BRITISH POUND (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); BONDS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); GERMAN MARK (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); 

PERSON: MARC CHANDLER (66%); 



640 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49, Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: SUPER BOWL XXIV;
Rich and Famous Can Take a Number

BYLINE: By FRANCES FRANK MARCUS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 26

 BODY:
Julio Iglesias needed a room at the Inter-Continental but there wasn't one. And Dale Dugan, a hotel official, couldn't worry about it. He had 500 Bronco fans to think about. Arriving simultaneously on three planes, they needed to be checked into the Inter-Continental without a tiresome wait.
To avoid ruffled feathers, the front office simply moved temporarily into the National Football League's big white tent in a parking lot next door to the downtown hotel and went to work, checking in 500 fans in 50 minutes. 
The $50,000 tent, 15,000 square feet, with electricity and wall-to-wall carpeting, will shelter the Broncos' $100,000 party after the game, win or lose.
Near the Superdome on Thursday night, the party tent was bigger, for 28,000 square feet of fried catfish, jambalaya, gumbo, jazz musicians, a grove of ficus trees twinkling with tiny lights and, as a city employee said as she leaned into a glass of champagne, ''2,000 of the media and all of the Mayor's friends.'' The Mayor, Sidney Barthelemy, head of a task force that threw the party, is running for re-election.
 
A Shot in the Economic Arm
Looking beyond the ficus trees and drinking black coffee, Jerry Dickhaus, a city official, smiled beatifically. He estimates the Super Bowl is worth $100 million to $125 million to the New Orleans economy. A trustworthy source has told him one party aboard a cruise ship will cost the Japanese host $12 million.
At the New Orleans Hilton Riverside and Towers, the executive pastry chef, George Cook, has been sculpting a 6-foot-long alligator made of marzipan and a twin made of tallow, for Barron Hilton and 2,500 other people, or, as a hotel employee put it, ''2,500 of his nearest and dearest.'' The guests, including O. J. Simpson and Muhammad Ali, will gather for Sunday brunch before the game.
There will be 24 bars, 2 beer stations, a wine station and 8 buffet stations with Cajun crawfish salad, grilled Louisiana quail, roasted rabbit, armadillo stew, crab claws, smoked alligator, roast pig with garlic, fried oysters, creole bread pudding with whiskey sauce and myriad other dishes. The brunch, the largest of dozens of parties at the hotel this weekend, will be one of hundreds throughout the city.
 
Serious Business
New Orleans is party town par excellence, as tourist officials here often say. But as Dickhaus noted, it's also serious business. With the oil economy down, tourism is New Orleans' biggest industry and the city government is working hard to please the thousands of people here for the game and thousands of others who came for the party.
To spare the eyes of visitors from unsightly views, the New Orleans International Airport, now under renovation and looking somewhat bombed out, has been swathed in banners, bunting, balloons and decorated with murals painted by Sheriff Charles Foti's artist-prisoners.
Even New Orleans city librarians have been pressed into service, with reference books and a phone hookup to the main library, ready to answer Super Bowl questions at the news-media center in the Hyatt Regency.
 
Leaving Home for Profit
Gail Cassagne, a business librarian, said she could understand why someone ''asked the price of tickets to Super Bowl I'' ($12, $10 and $6) or ''whether the Superdome is haunted because it's built on a cemetery.''
''But the full name of former President Tito of Yugoslavia?'' she asked.
The city is awash in stories about $450-a-night hotel rooms, four-night minimum, including a game ticket, and scarcity even at those prices. But Ro Mayer at Latter & Blum, a New Orleans real estate firm, is lamenting room surpluses. She and her seven co-workers recently worked all night collating files on 600 units, from apartments to Garden District mansions, available for up to $5,000 or so a night. The spaces have been proffered by New Orleans people eager to abandon their homes for profit. Where Are the High Rollers? The phones rang day and night, with calls from Hawaii, London, and elsewhere, but ultimately, Mayer said, ''the demand wasn't there,'' unlike the Super Bowl here four years ago, when the New England Patriots ''brought in the whole Northeast.'' She has concluded ''there are no high rollers in Denver, and the San Francisco high rollers just don't care.''
New Orleans upper-crust clients have presented problems, too. ''We had a three- or four-bedroom house, a restored Queen Anne, available for $10,000 for two nights,'' Mayer said. ''Someone wanted it for three nights and someone else for six nights for $20,000, but the owner refused. He would rent it only for two nights. He has kids and his wife said it was too much trouble to move. He told me it blew his golf game the next day thinking about losing all that money.''
More than 500 houses went begging along with a 53-foot-long 1952 motor yacht moored on Lake Pontchartrain: triple cabin, flying bridge, only $1,000 for three nights, sleeps six. Rooms have also languished at the Sportsmen's Inn in Bogalusa, La., $35 a night, an hour and a half's drive from the Superdome.
 
Restaurants Are Jammed
But the more famous New Orleans restaurants are fully booked. In the French Quarter, Antoine's, soon to be 150 years old, has been deluged as usual. Some private dining rooms and tables have been booked for four years. Creatures of habit, Antoine's clients like to return to the same private rooms and same tables Super Bowl after Super Bowl.
Last Tuesday, a representative for a certain v.i.p. telephoned Kermit Cosse, Antoine's associate manager, asking for reservations for a private room on Saturday night.
''What?'' asked Cosse, roomless and aghast. But he was rescued by a friend who had been holding reservations for four years in Antoine's Escargot Room. ''Take it,'' the friend said. ''Take the Escargot Room. Put us out in the main dining room.''
''Now that's courtesy,'' Cosse said, ''That's courtesy New Orleans style.''
As for Julio Iglesias, what did he do about getting a hotel room?
''I'm sure he found a room to sleep somewhere,'' Dugan said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of Bronco and 49er fans are filling the streets of New Orleans as the city gears up for Super Bowl XXIV tomorrow. Henry Warden took his Bronco-uniformed dog, Hank, out for a stroll yesterday along Bourbon Street. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SUPER BOWL

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW ORLEANS (LA)

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (76%); SPORTS (76%); AIRPORTS (72%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); CRUISES (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%); JAZZ & BLUES (53%); 

PERSON: MARCUS, FRANCES FRANK MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



641 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: DOMESTIC EFFORTS BEAR TOP BURDEN IN BUSH'S BUDGET

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
About half the $36 billion in deficit reduction that President Bush will propose in the budget he sends to Congress on Monday would come out of domestic programs, including some efforts in education, housing, transportation and health.
Much of the rest would consist of $13.3 billion in greater revenue. Included in this figure would be new fees for the users of Government services and property like national parks, and the continuation of excise taxes, now due to expire, on telephone calls and other items.
Only about $6 billion in deficit reduction would result from cuts in military spending, much of it from Army programs.
 
The First Bush Budget
These and other details of the President's budget for the 1991 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1, were gleaned from documents obtained by The New York Times, including an introduction written by the White House budget director, Richard G. Darman, and from interviews with Government officials and lobbyists. 
Having just taken office at budget time last year, Mr. Bush was unable to do more than make minor adjustments to the budget that President Ronald Reagan had submitted for the current fiscal year. The new budget, therefore, is the first prepared under his stewardship. His proposals seem somewhat less ideological than those of Mr. Reagan, who repeatedly advocated large military increases and reductions in domestic programs.
But the first full Bush budget is still not likely to be acceptable to the Democratic-controlled Congress, which leans toward more money for social programs and less for the Defense Department.
 
Deficit of $63.1 Billion
Mr. Bush was required under the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget-balancing law to propose a budget that would reduce the deficit from the $100 billion ceiling of the current fiscal year to no more than $64 billion in 1991. His budget sets a deficit figure of $63.1 billion, the documents show.
The size of the actual deficit will depend to some extent on the level of economic growth, which leads to larger tax revenue, and interest rates, which determine how much the Government must pay in borrowing costs. The Administration is estimating somewhat more growth and somewhat lower interest rates than are most private economists and the Congressional Budget Office. #2 Percent Annual Cuts Under the President's plan, Pentagon spending would rise to $292.1 billion from $286.8 billion, an increase of $5.3 billion. But in the way budgets are calculated, that is a cut, because the new figure is about $6 billion less than what would be needed to keep up with inflation.
Since 1985, Congress has reduced the Pentagon budget by an average of 2 percent a year after accounting for inflation, despite requests for increases in spending from Presidents Reagan and Bush.
Given the improved relationship with the Soviet Union, Congress is expected to try to reduce the military budget by more than Mr. Bush wants, so that the deficit target can be met without cutting domestic programs so deeply.
In its budget presentation, the White House will project continued annual Pentagon cuts of 2 percent a year after inflation through the 1995 fiscal year, according to an Administration official.
That projection is also likely to be challenged in Congress, on the ground that much larger reductions will be possible once a conventional-forces treaty with the Soviet Union is signed.
 
More for Head Start
Among the other elements of the President's $1.2 trillion budget that are now available are these:
* The Education Department's budget would be increased by $1.2 billion, to $24.6 billion, slightly less than the amount needed to keep up with inflation. The budget includes increased spending for Head Start, the preschool program for poor children, and reduced outlays for student loans.
* More money would be made available for veterans' hospitals, but tighter credit terms would be applied to mortgage loans for veterans.
* An additional $2.5 billion would be allocated to the Federal Aviation Administration to modernize the air traffic control system. That is a 45 percent increase for those programs.
* The President will try once more to gain Congressional approval for what the Administration calls ''enterprise zones,'' neighborhoods where tax breaks and other advantages would be given to attract private business and jobs. This is a pet program of Jack F. Kemp, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, but the idea has been rejected over the years by Congress.
* The budget will emphasize allotments for research and development, including new money for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, biotechnology, development of the giant atom-smasher called the superconducting supercollider and applied research on projects ranging from military weapons to agriculture programs to a high-speed rail system. The spending for basic research would rise by about $1 billion, to $12.3 billion.
* The President will propose more than $2 billion in new money to finance an environmental effort he calls America the Beautiful. It would include an acceleration of hazardous-waste cleanup, a reforestation program and acquisition of land for national parks.
 
Help for Poor Children
The White House said the $500 million increase Mr. Bush will seek for Head Start would be the largest single-year rise since the program was established 25 years ago. It would raise the Head Start budget to nearly $2 billion and would allow 180,000 more poor children to be served.
About 450,000 children are now served by Head Start. In addition to early education, the program provides nutrition, health and social services. Studies have found it to be one of the Government's most successful antipoverty programs.
By White House calculations, which some advocacy groups believe are optimistic, the new money would allow the program to reach nearly three-quarters of the nation's poor 4-year-olds.
Elsewhere in the education area, the budget would reduce funds for the guaranteed-student-loan program, which backs tuition loans from commercial banks for college students, and a program under which the Government lends money directly to low-income college students. But Mr. Bush will seek enough money for Pell grants, a scholarship program for poor college students, to enable it to keep up with inflation.
Federal assistance to libraries would be reduced, but a small amount of additional money would be provided for education programs in mathematics and science. Mr. Bush plans to renew his proposals for rewarding successful schools and establishing magnet schools, neither of which received attention from Congress when he offered them last year.
During his 1988 election campaign, Mr. Bush said he wanted to be known as the ''education President.'' But a New York Times/CBS News Poll taken two weeks ago found that only 16 percent of Americans thought he had made progress in improving education, while 68 percent said he had ''mainly just talked about it.'' The telephone poll, conducted Jan. 13 to 15 with 1,557 adults nationwide, had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
 
Changing the Pentagon
Mr. Bush has already said the new Pentagon budget will be the first step in a sweeping restructuring of the American military. But critics on Capitol Hill and within the Pentagon have said the spending plan postpones most of the tough decisions, opting for personnel cuts over the cancellation of expensive weapons systems like the Stealth bomber.
The Army is the service that would be cut most by the plan, officials said, and it is projected to shrink by two divisions, totaling more than 30,000 active-duty soldiers. While the Navy would keeps all its 15 aircraft carriers under the plan, it would mothball two battleships - the Iowa and the Missouri.
Potential base closings will not be included in the budget, although any significant shrinking of active-duty military forces would lead to the elimination of military bases around the country. The possible base closings will be submitted separately, officials have said.
Mr. Bush will also propose cuts in programs that help poor people weatherize their homes and pay heating bills. A similar proposal last year was rejected by Congress.
The budget, which will be presented in one large book this year instead of several smaller volumes as in the past, will go on sale Monday at Government bookstores for $38.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available BUDGETS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXCISE TAX (76%); ARMIES (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); 



642 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Mayoralty Raises Questions, While Jackson Ups the Ante

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
The political galleries are full of people asking will he or won't he run for mayor here. But the Rev. Jesse Jackson, as he so often does, is playing a more elaborate political game, one in which his potential candidacy for office provides both a platform and his strongest bargaining chip.
While everyone else is focusing on the mayoral race, the coy non-candidate has been using the moment to deliver a blunt message:
The Democratic Party should find a way to win statehood for the District of Columbia, thus creating a Senate seat he can run for, or he will do the thing that strikes fear in the hearts of many Democrats. He will run for President again.
 
Simple Yet Complex Equation
''As I address Democrats,'' Mr. Jackson said in an interview this week, ''it's either D.C. statehood '91, or the nomination for 1992.'' 
But it's not quite that simple. Jesse Jackson's remarks are always more intricate then they seem. In the week since Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr. of Washington was charged with possessing crack provided by an F.B.I. informer, Mr. Jackson has said many things about local politics. His comments were reported in a front-page article in The Washington Post to mean that he was leaning toward a run for mayor. But his comments persuaded a columnist for The New York Times, A. M. Rosenthal, that he was not running for mayor.
This confusing pattern - or pattern of confusion - is familiar to those who have known Mr. Jackson a long time. ''He's saying different things to different people within minutes,'' not just to reporters but even to friends and advisers, said a longtime associate.
Some of this is just the Jackson style. He is unusually accessible for a major public figure, and tries out ideas on whoever happens to be around.
But there is more. Mr. Jackson, his associates say, has not made up his mind whether to run, although most of his staff believe he is leaning against running. What is certain is that he will not let this moment pass without getting all the attention he can on his larger agenda, which includes a platform for his liberal views and what he calls ''options'' for higher office.
 
He Practices 'Leverage' Politics
Since his days in the civil rights movement Mr. Jackson has practiced what Frank Watkins, a friend and longtime associate, calls ''leverage'' politics. For example, the threat of an economic boycott produced the leverage to pressure auto makers to grant dealerships to blacks, and these dealers remain among the core of Mr. Jackson's financial contributors.
In the spring and summer of 1988, when Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts had the Democratic nomination locked up, Mr. Jackson carried on his campaign for President because it gave him leverage to negotiate things like his travel budget for the fall Democratic campaign and changes in party rules that could help a Jackson Presidential candidacy, if there is one, in 1992.
This style of politics has often led to the misplaced question, ''What does Jesse want?'' As in any bargaining situation, what he wants is the best deal he can get. The only way to find out is to exert pressure in various directions, or use leverage, and see what happens.
That is what is going on now. And Mr. Jackson says he has ''no plans'' to run for mayor, giving the field-tested response of candidates who are not ready to say they are candidates. A television reporter demanded of Mr. Jackson why he did not make a simple declarative statement that he was not running. ''Why should I in public service give up leverage and options to satisfy some urge?'' he replied.
Two things give Mr. Jackson leverage now. The first is that as long as he puts off a decision on running for mayor, he has the attention of those who want him to run and those who do not. The second is the question whether he will run for President for a third time.
To comprehend Mr. Jackson's plan requires an understanding of his view of another Presidential campaign. Simply put, though many Democrats think he can never be nominated, Mr. Jackson seems to believe he can be.
 
'I Expect to Win'
''If I run in '92, I expect to win,'' he said Thursday night in a televised interview with Larry King, the talk show host. ''I got 3.5 million votes in 1984. I got 7 million in 1988. I believe I could get 10 million in 1992 and that's enough to win.''
So, in Mr. Jackson's mind, any choice other than running for President in 1992 means giving up a chance to be the first black Presidential nominee of a major political party.
Those who have discussed the subject with him say Mr. Jackson understands that his chances of beating George Bush would be slim. But Mr. Jackson knows, too, that even the prospect of another campaign for the nomination terrifies many Democrats. They fear he would at the least draw more attention than they would prefer to the liberal wing of the party, and at most win a place on the ticket and thus drive off voters who would reject a black.
Some fear that Mr. Jackson would lead the party to a devastating defeat in which they would lose not only the Presidential race, but also control of the Senate and perhaps the House.
That gives Mr. Jackson leverage and brings the political discussion back to the District of Columbia. While the Democratic Party platform officially supports statehood, there has been little movement in Congress. The District's government is reviled on Capitol Hill as inefficient and corrupt, and Mr. Barry's arrest has only worsened the situation.
But Mr. Jackson is hoping that the prospect of another Presidential bid will help focus the attention of other Democrats on the statehood issue.
 
Applying Pressure on Statehood
Mr. Jackson's office has sent a survey to every member of Congress asking where he or she stands. And he says he plans to campaign for statehood around the country and against those who oppose it. Senators Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Paul Simon of Illinois said on Friday that they planned to introduce a statehood bill.
Even if he rallied Democrats, there is another problem: the Republican Party. On the face of it, the Republicans have opposed admission of a state that would send two Democratic senators to Capitol Hill and remove Mr. Jackson from complicating the 1992 Presidential race for their rivals.
But there is a new wrinkle that Mr. Jackson is trying to exploit.
President Bush has endorsed an effort to offer statehood to Puerto Rico, where Republicans feel they have a chance of capturing Senate seats and other offices. Mr. Jackson might try to link the two, forcing Mr. Bush to veto both, or approve both.
In the meantime, there is the mayor's race. In the long-shot prospect that the District is admitted as a state, there seems little doubt that it would be Mr. Jackson's preference to ''desegregate the Senate,'' as an aide put it, rather than serve at City Hall. But he might have to decide before the prospects of statehood are clear.
 
Mayoralty Seen as a Trap
While most in his inner circle view the mayor's race as a trap that would only derail his career, a few have argued that it would offer a chance to dispel the criticism that he has never held elective office.
When Mr. Jackson talks about why he does not want to be mayor, he is sending a message that those who want him to run have to make a better case. He contends that this is ''an occupied'' city under the control of Congress and the President.
From those who think he can truly help the city, Mr. Jackson wants assurances of wide support. Several other candidates who have already announced are sure to brand Mr. Jackson, who moved to Washington from Chicago last summer, as a carpetbagger.
In any case, Mr. Jackson has no reason to rule out a mayoral race now. For one thing, Mayor Barry has yet to say if he will seek re-election. And Mr. Jackson would need Mr. Barry's many supporters to win.
Mr. Jackson is off to South Africa next week and hopes to be there if and when the South African Government releases Nelson Mandela, a possibility that has drawn the attention of the world press. Mr. Jackson is not expected back until the third week of February, which, it happens, is when Mayor Barry is to complete his program at a drug and alcohol abuse treatment center in South Florida.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Jesse Jackson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (DC)

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; STATES (US) MAYORS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BOYCOTTS (73%); WRITERS (64%); AUTOMAKERS (50%); 

PERSON: ORESKES, MICHAEL; JACKSON, JESSE L (REV) JESSE JACKSON (94%); 



643 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1937 words

HEADLINE: In Small Steps, Program Puts Homeless Into Jobs

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky.

 BODY:
As hundreds of communities struggle to check the spread of homelessness, an ambitious program to steer Louisville's homeless into jobs and stable lives has shown some real success. But success comes in tiny steps, and at the same time, failure abounds.
Now in its second year, the Louisville program, Project Worth, includes remedial schooling, vocational training and lessons in conventions of living and working like keeping budgets and getting to work on time.
 
Seeds For A National Policy
It is among 46 community programs that the Federal Government supports with grants, typically a few hundred thousand dollars each, through a 1987 law to promote housing for the homeless. The aid to Project Worth has been extended a second year, an indication that the Government sees in the program some seeds for a national policy at a time when surveys indicate growing public concern about homelessness and dissatisfaction with the response of government. 
But Project Worth also illustrates the challenge that helping the homeless presents. Between a third and a half of the participants are thought to have drug or alcohol problems. The school system of Jefferson County, where Louisville is, administers the program and recently completed a study of the results of the program's first year, which ended in September. It showed that just 10 percent of the people who enrolled made it all the way through and into a job that they kept at least three months.
By the standards of the experiment here, 25-year-old Michael Howell is a winner. But his case also shows how poverty, family traumas or the abuse of drugs or alcohol can haunt the homeless long after they get on their feet, and how employers must make allowances if the Michael Howells here are to keep their jobs.
 
New Start and Some Slipping
When Mr. Howell was 4 and living in Washington State, his mother said she was going to the movies and never came back. At 8, while living with his father, who had remarried and moved to Michigan, Mr. Howell said, he began smoking marijuana he bought with the money he earned from a newspaper route. Hooked on drugs at 15, he said, and failing in school, he left home and began drifting from city to city. He found an occasional menial job but could not keep it.
A little more than a year ago, Mr. Howell landed in Louisville at one of the city's 33 shelters for the homeless. He underwent a month of detoxification treatment. Chagrined that he could not hold a job, he said, ''I thought possibly, maybe, drugs had something to do with it.''
Mr. Howell enrolled in Project Worth, specializing in bookkeeping. He completed the course, and for nine months he has been earning the minimum wage, plus full benefits, as a clerk and errand runner for the Capital Holding Corporation, a large insurance and financial services conglomerate downtown. He is taking business courses at Jefferson Community College.
One day, Mr. Howell did not show up for work. He had slipped back to drugs. But Barbara J. Laski, the treasurer of Capital Holding and Mr. Howell's boss, let him return. Indeed, she and her staff went out looking for him and hauled him back.
''He thought he had fallen from our graces,'' Ms. Laski said. ''We knew that if we could get to him that week, we could get him back,'' she said. ''Bumps along the way I kind of expected. Your benchmark has to be reasonable. He does have rough edges, but he's moving in the right direction. We are talking career with him, not just a job.''
 
Admitting 264 People, Program Puts 42 in Jobs
The first-year report on Project Worth says 264 people, about 70 percent of them women, were admitted to the program from Louisville's homeless population of 3,500. Half dropped out. Of those who stayed, the study said 42 took courses leading to the equivalent of a high school diploma. Twenty-seven took the final exam, and just 11 passed.
The report says that 42 students were placed in jobs after an average of 26 weeks of schooling, and that their average wage was $4.49 an hour, 79 cents more than they earned in their last jobs. But after 13 weeks, 24 of the graduates, roughly 1 in 10 of the starting class, still had the jobs. And since completion of the first year, in September, the project coordinator, Marlene Gordon, said about half of those 24 had left their jobs.
Ms. Gordon said that when some participants started the program they were strapped for money and quit classes to take jobs that paid less than those they might have found later. Some left town or fell back into drugs and drinking. ''We had one woman get a good job in construction,'' Ms. Gordon said. ''She got back with her drug-addicted boyfriend and got pregnant and had twins.''
However modest the results, the experience so far has been valuable, said Roberts T. Jones, an Assistant United States Secretary of Labor. ''It's going to be a long time before there's any significant evidence of the value,'' he said, ''But the value is there.''
 
Battling Economic Strain With Little Preparation
For the second year of the Louisville project, the Labor Department has raised its subsidy to $351,000, from $279,000 in the first year. State and local agencies provide about 10 percent more, and many churches and charities in the Louisville Coalition for the Homeless help in a variety of ways, big and small, whose cost no one has quantified.
Teresa Cochran, who at 26 is the mother of three children 4, 5 and 7 years old, landed in a shelter and is now in Project Worth. Like many participants, she has more problems than just homelessness. She has left her husband, she said. Before that, she said, she kept losing jobs. ''I couldn't find a regular baby sitter,'' she said. ''It became a problem. We got behind in the rent.''
The economic strains seem especially acute in Louisville. Wages here have fallen even more than they have nationally because of the city's shift, well along now, from a high-wage manufacturing center for cigarettes, baseball bats, Ford automobiles and General Electric appliances to a service industry city of health care and insurance businesses that pay lower wages.
In addition, Kentucky's schools have left its workers ill prepared to learn the skills that changing jobs can require. The 1980 census showed that only 49 percent of all adults had high school diplomas, the lowest percentage for any state.
Project Worth recruits its participants at emergency shelters, where the homeless can stay for a month or so upon promising to stay off drugs and alcohol. Upon getting jobs, people move into halfway houses, where they pay for some of their keep.
 
Life Is Cramped And Runs on Shoestring
Like the people they serve, most shelters run on a shoestring. Much of the shelters' food comes from Kentucky Harvest, a nonprofit organization that retrieves surplus food from restaurants, stores and vending machines, and churches supply the shelters with clothes. Many single people live in barracks-like wards in the shelters, and parents with children crowd into single rooms along halls with communal bathrooms.
Room No. 4 of a Volunteers of America emergency shelter is smaller than most. A mother, a father and two children sleep on two sets of bunk beds in a space about 7 by 12. There is room for one chest of drawers, a respectable Victorian antique of oak that somebody donated. The television set is kept at the foot of a bottom bunk. Newly washed shirts, underwear and blue jeans are folded and stacked on an upper bunk. This is the family's home.
Once admitted to Project Worth, students take school buses provided by the school system and the American Red Cross to a former junior high school on the outskirts of the city for their courses. Women can bring their young children along because the project provides day care.
Some students left school so early that a high-school-equivalency diploma is unattainable during the year with the project, so for them the teachers set a goal of raising their proficiency by two grade levels. In one class recently, the teacher wrote the vocabulary words for the day on the blackboard: wholesale, wholesaler, retail, quantity, quality.
At the other extreme are students like John Ramey, a 20-year-old from Indianapolis who lost himself on marijuana in his first semester at Franklin College. ''I don't even have any credits,'' he said. ''That's how drugs screwed me up.'' He said his parents talked him into getting treatment.
While taking the course, Mr. Ramey became the project's computer guru. He does programming and tests the word processing systems for secretarial courses. Now he is paid $2 an hour for tutoring, and next month, he will start a full-time job at $5.33 an hour as a teacher's aide for the project. From that he said he hopes to move to a still better job and eventually back to college.
 
Project Shows Success With Help of Mentors
One lesson of the project's first year, Ms. Gordon said, is the importance of a mentor for the students. Michael Howell found one in Ms. Laski, who discovered him on a recruiting mission at the project. Bob Peterson, 43, found his in Ms. Gordon. An alcoholic and the father of three children, he was divorced 17 years ago.
''I lost everything I had,'' he said, ''and I just hit the road.'' Ms. Gordon, he said, ''is about the only person I've seen in a program like this that takes a personal interest in you.'' He said in an interview on what he said was his 147th day without a drink that his dream was a job as an automotive engineer but that he could be happy returning to his old work as a house painter.
James Farley, a 44-year-old son of an alcoholic father, says he has gone 15 months without a drink and attributes his progress to Project Worth.
He has gone to work as the maintenance man at the Jefferson Street Baptist Center, a mission where he also lives, and he has a similar job at another mission. People close to him say he has taken his first job at the mission because he is being cautious about going back into an unprotected world and a job as an engine mechanic because of the fear of backsliding.
 
'A Lot of Breaks Have to Go Your Way'
''A lot of breaks have to go your way for a long time,'' the Rev. Michael Freeman, the minister at the center said. ''A lot of these guys get going strong, then nothing happens in their lives. They say, 'Why should I stay sober?' ''
A failing of the program and one reason so few graduates stay on the job, Ms. Gordon said, is the relatively brief period, 13 weeks, that the project keeps tabs on and counsels the people after they leave the school. She said she would like to stretch it to two years. Another shortcoming, she said, is money. Because the students have so little, she would like to give them a stipend to help them stay through the course.
Another problem is screening. In recruiting last year, the project report said, ''The staff was hesitant to elicit information on prior or present substance abuse problems. Staff feared that this information would seem irrelevant to the education process and would be offensive to the student. This was a mistake.''
For the homeless who want jobs, there is some hope in demographic trends. In Louisville, as in many other cities, entry-level workers are becoming scarce because of the plunge in the birth rate two decades ago. Hiring Michael Howell, Ms. Laski said, was not charity.
''This was not a contribution to the church,'' she said. ''Corporations are thinking, 'How do you attract people?' You're going to see them picking the best and the brightest from among the disadvantaged.''

GRAPHIC: Chart of poll taken on how people feel Bush Administration has done on taking care of homeless (NYT/CBS News Poll, Jan. 13-15) (pg. 1); Photos: A Louisville, Ky., program for the homeless, Project Worth, includes remedial schooling, vocational training and lessons in living and working. John Ramey, an ex-addict, is a tutor helping Patricia Jordan (NYT/Keith Williams); Bob Peterson, left, learning to repair engines in a mechanics class at Project Worth under the supervision of an instructor, Charlie Rademaker. Mr. Peterson, a recovering alcoholic, said that his dream is to be an automotive engineer but that he could be happy returning to his former job as a house painter (NYT/Keith Williams ); graph: percentage of people who responded ''homelessness'' to poll question asking for most s

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (60%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (60%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: AEGON USA INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISVILLE (KY)

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; FEDERAL AID (US); PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; LABOR HOMELESSNESS (93%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); CANNABIS (73%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T MICHAEL HOWELL (89%); MARLENE GORDON (58%); 



644 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: For Work Force, 2 Million Who'd Quit Retirement

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Nearly two million nonworking Americans 50 to 64 years old are ready and able to work, a new survey shows.
''The excitement of this study is that the pool of qualified older workers is so much larger than anyone knew, and with everyone worrying about the labor shortages forecast for early next century, that's very important,'' said Thomas W. Moloney, senior vice president of the Commonwealth Fund, the New-York based philanthropy that commissioned the study.
''This study,'' he went on, ''disproves the conventional wisdom that there are not many people in this age range ready and able to work, that they aren't healthy enough to work, or aren't prepared to take the jobs that there is a demand for.''
Since there are only about two million new people entering the labor force each year, he said, it is significant that the survey produced an estimate that there is a pool of another two million qualified older workers. 
 
The Numbers Game
That estimate, based on a survey by Louis Harris & Associates, is more than three times the Bureau of Labor Statistics estimate of 630,000. Bruce Klein, a bureau economist, says both estimates may be right since the Government number does not include workers not seeking jobs.
The survey, conducted by telephone last March through last September, covered 3,509 older Americans - 1,751 men 55 to 64 years old and 1,758 women 50 to 59. The women were younger because women leave the work force earlier than men; the survey tried to focus on the years when workers typically leave the work force.
In portions of the survey not yet analyzed, those surveyed were also asked when and why they left work and how they fared outside the work force.
From the participants' responses the researchers inferred results applicable to the 21.5 million Americans in those age brackets. Of that group, 13.3 million are working, 4.7 million do not want to work, and 1.6 million are unable to work, mostly for health reasons. The remaining workers, nearly 2 million, are ready and able. #1.1 Million Pass All Tests The projections of the data were done by Harris and I.C.F., a District of Columbia consulting company.
About 800,000 of the estimated 2 million people were not prime candidates for new jobs. the researchers said, but more than 1.1 million would be highly qualified and motivated since they have reasonable wage expectations, would accept difficult working conditions, and have interest in available jobs: managerial, computer, sales, home day care, teacher's aide.
The survey has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus seven percentage points. The participants were asked how far they would be willing to commute, what jobs and job conditions they would accept and for what pay. The reasons that these people are not working include employer discrimination against older workers and the workers' perceptions of the employers' attitudes.
 
Comparison of Incomes
''As ready and willing and capable as these people are, 60 percent are discouraged from seeking employment, and the most frequently given reason is that they don't think people want to hire them,'' said Mr. Moloney.
The study found that only 6 percent of the qualified older people had incomes of $50,000 or above, as against 25 percent of employed older people.
Two-thirds of the qualified older workers would work full time, and 86 percent said they would work part time. The researchers reported that three-quarters of the qualified older workers were high school or college graduates, as against 85 percent of the working older people. Sixty-four percent of the available workers had five or more years of experience on the last job, against 77 percent of older people now employed.
''There's a skill bust coming because the education and skills of the workers coming up are not up to the levels of the current work force,'' Mr. Moloney said, ''so it is very good news to find that there are so many capable committed older workers available.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPOL (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARRIS INTERACTIVE INC (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH FUND OF NEW YORK

SUBJECT: LABOR; OLDER WORKERS; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); STATISTICS (87%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); PARAEDUCATORS (72%); STATISTICAL METHOD (71%); 

PERSON: LEWIN, TAMAR; MOLONEY, THOMAS W ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 



645 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 16, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Salvador Promises Quayle Full Inquiry on Jesuits

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras, Jan. 27

 BODY:
The President of El Salvador assured Vice President Dan Quayle today that he would investigate the killings of six Jesuit priests to see if the evidence implicated anyone ranking higher than the nine military men accused in the slayings.
The Salvadoran President, Alfredo Cristiani, offered the assurance at a breakfast with Mr. Quayle. Both men were here for the inauguration of the President of Honduras, Rafael Leonardo Callejas, who was elected in November to succeed Jose Azcona Hoyo.
The six Jesuit priests, all proponents of a negotiated solution to the civil war in El Salvador, their housekeeper and her daughter were shot to death on Nov. 16. Eight military men, including a colonel and three other officers, were arrested this month. A ninth military man accused of involvement remains at large. 
Asked at a news conference today whether he expected the arrest of more military officers, Mr. Cristiani replied:
''That's not something you can say ahead of time. I think we've been able to get the investigation down where we have those who directly were involved in the assassination and, with their testimony, those who gave the order to commit the crime. But during the judicial process, there might be new testimony coming out that has new leads, and the investigation would follow those leads to see if there is any more involvement.''
 
'Have to Set an Example'
Mr. Cristiani said ''we have to set an example in El Salvador'' to show that such crimes cannot be committed with impunity.
Many members of the United States Congress and human rights advocates have said they doubted that any military officers would be convicted of the killings because the Salvadoran system of justice has been unable to hold military men accountable in the past.
But two members of Congress traveling with Mr. Quayle - Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, and Representative G. V. (Sonny) Montgomery, Democrat of Mississippi - told Mr. Cristiani that Congress was closely watching the case. They indicated that Congress might restrict or reduce aid to El Salvador if there was not a full investigation of the killings of the Jesuits.
El Salvador gets $1.4 million a day in American aid.
Among those arrested is Col. Guillermo Alfredo Benavides Moreno, the head of the Salvadoran military college. A person who attended the breakfast with Mr. Cristiani quoted the Salvadoran leader as saying he wanted the investigation to proceed at a deliberate pace to determine if any officer higher than Colonel Benavides had been involved.
 
No Record of Abuses
The colonel is not known to have committed human rights abuses in the past, American officials said.
Mr. Quayle said Mr. Cristiani ''wants to get to the bottom of this'' case and ''has assured me that he will.''
A major purpose of Mr. Quayle's trip is to repair diplomatic damage done by the American invasion of Panama. The Vice President assured Latin American leaders today that the additional American troops sent to Panama last month would be withdrawn ''as soon as possible.''
His mission was somewhat awkward because while trying to regain the trust of Latin American countries, he also told them that fiscal constraints in Washington would probably compel Congress to reduce their foreign aid allocations.
President Bush ''is committed to pulling all the troops out, to the level that we had before the intervention, as soon as possible,'' he said. ''In my judgment, that will hopefully be in a time period of weeks rather than months.''
Mr. Quayle's commitment to ''get the troops out as soon as possible'' was more specific than any such commitment by American officials in the past.
 
Salvador Recognizes Endara
Mr. Cristiani said today that El Salvador was recognizing the new Panamanian Government headed by President Guillermo Endara.
Mr. Cristiani, a staunch ally of the Bush Administration, generally supported the American invasion of Panama as a means to promote democracy. But today he also said, ''U.S. troops should be pulled out of Panama as soon as possible.''
At the peak of their strength, American troops in Panama numbered 27,000 last month. Bernard W. Aronson, the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, who is traveling with the Vice President, said the United States had withdrawn 10,000 of those troops, leaving 17,000 in Panama.
Administration officials said the number of troops would be reduced to 13,600, the level just before the invasion, and might be cut back to 10,000, the level before a gradual buildup was begun more than a year ago.
Mr. Quayle said the purpose of his visit here was not to apologize for the invasion of Panama, but to consult with Latin American leaders about ''how to build democracy in Panama'' and throughout the Western Hemisphere. The Vice President's trip was scaled back because a few nations, including Mexico and Venezuela, suggested that Mr. Quayle should not visit at this time.
 
Quayle Meets 5 Leaders
In his effort to mend fences, Mr. Quayle met here with Mr. Callejas, with Presidents Carlos Andres Perez of Venezuela, Oscar Arias Sanchez of Costa Rica and Vinicio Cerezo of Guatemala and with Prime Minister George Price of Belize.
Mr. Callejas, 46 years old, grew up in a wealthy land-owning family and holds degrees in agricultural economics from Mississippi State University.
Even as Honduras inaugurated him as President, American officials advised the new Government that they were holding back much of the foreign aid earmarked for this country. Honduras was supposed to get $85 million in economic aid last year, but the United States is withholding $70 million because Honduras has not carried out the economic austerity measures recommended by the International Monetary Fund and other lenders.
American officials said Honduras stood to lose one-third of its $85 million cash allocation this year for the same reason.


GRAPHIC: Mr. Quayle is in Honduras for the inauguration of the new President, Rafael Leonardo Callejas. (Reuters)
Photo: The President of El Salvador, Alfredo Cristiani, assured Vice President Dan Quayle at a breakfast in Tegucigalpa yesterday that he would further investigate the killings of six Jesuit priests in El Salvador.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EL SALVADOR (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONDURAS (94%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EL SALVADOR

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; PRIESTS; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES INVESTIGATIONS (92%); RELIGION (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); ARRESTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (85%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); SHOOTINGS (73%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); CRISTIANI, ALFREDO (PRES); LUGAR, RICHARD G (SEN); MONTGOMERY, G V (REPR) DICK LUGAR (57%); 



646 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 16, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2024 words

HEADLINE: To Many in Panama, the New President Is an Enigma Wrapped in a Smile

BYLINE: By DAVID E. PITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PANAMA, Jan. 27

 BODY:
To many people who know him only from afar, Guillermo Endara Galimany, a 53-year-old lawyer with a dimpled smile and a quick laugh, is something of an enigma.
Unlike many of his predecessors in the 21 years of military rule, Panama's new civilian President, who sometimes jokes about his weight problem, often seems altogether too guileless and self-effacing to believe.
Although many Panamanians think he is the perfect man for the job, others wonder if he has the political skill to rebuild the devastated economy, create an effective police agency to replace the Panamanian Defense Forces and still generate the popular support that his Government will need when the euphoria over the ouster of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega subsides. Among other things, the circumstances under which Mr. Endara and his two vice presidents took power - as the invasion by United States troops began last month - is certain to be used against them as Panama's traditionally anti-American nationalism reawakens.
In a particularly complex Panamanian play of race and caste, Mr. Endara is also likely to find himself denounced as the leader of the privileged few against the vast ranks of the poor. 
 
On the Night of Dec. 19
But there are aspects of the new President's personality and career that suggest that he may be able to rally the country in what many agree will be the difficult months of reconstruction ahead.
Mr. Endara said that when American officials told him late on Dec. 19 that the invasion was imminent and that they wanted him to take the oath as President, ''I felt like I had been hit in the head with a sledgehammer.''
''It would have been very easy for me to say, 'I'm not going to take this job under occupation by American forces,' '' Mr. Endara said in a recent interview in his office overlooking the Pacific. ''But I knew that I couldn't do that. I had to assume the responsibility of Government - the people chose me to be President. I couldn't simply tell the U.S.: 'You pick the Government. You are the occupying power and you do what you want.' ''
''History may speak horribly of me,'' he said of his decision. ''I certainly knew that Latin Americans weren't going to be very fond of me. But morally, patriotically, civically, I had no other choice. I had to do it.''
 
A Reputation As a Great Lawyer
 A year ago, before he agreed to run as the civilian coalition's nominee for the presidency against General Noriega's candidate, Mr. Endara was virtually unknown as a political commodity, except for two things.
Political insiders knew him as the longtime behind-the-scenes secretary for his idol, Dr. Arnulfo Arias Madrid, the charismatic, Peron-like figure whose presence and views - a curious mix of socialism, fascism, racism, mysticism and resistance to United States domination of the Panama Canal - dominated Panamanian politics for half a century.
But in the capital's financial center, bankers, businessmen and would-be businessmen knew Mr. Endara in a more pragmatic incarnation, as one of the best corporate lawyers in town, smart and well-connected.
Both pursuits seem to have taught him the fine art of quiet compromise, a skill he has reportedly put to use in recent weeks settling differences between himself and his First Vice President, Ricardo Arias Calderon, leader of the formidable Christian Democratic Party; and the Second Vice President, Guillermo (Billy) Ford of the Nationalist Liberal Republican Party, a splinter group known by the Spanish acronym of Molirena. Under a pact said to have been signed Dec. 21 by the three men, decisions are being made not by Mr. Endara alone, but by consensus of all three.
Some politicians say the country is apparently being run by a less-than-efficient junta, not a president. ''They're trying to play the piano with six hands,'' complained one critic, Carlos Ivan Zuniga, an opposition politician who heads a small, conservative political party known as Papo.
But others are hopeful about Mr. Endara's skills at conciliation.
''Over the years, I've seen him act many times as a bridge between competing groups,'' said Fernando Manfredo, who began serving this month as the first Panamanian administrator of the Panama Canal Commission, although in an acting capacity. In 1983, Mr. Manfredo recalled, Mr. Endara, representing Dr. Arias's Authentic Panamanian Party, managed to get a roomful of bitter political adversaries, including a Communist group, to agree on a complex change in the Constitution.
 
Brilliance at School, Success at the Office
 Mr. Endara, an only child, was born May 12, 1936, to upper-middle class parents in the capital. By all accounts a brilliant student, he attended secondary schools in Argentina and a now-defunct military academy in Los Angeles, Calif., eventually graduating first in his law class at the University of Panama.
He also studied law for a time at New York University, returning home to open a law practice in 1963 with an older lawyer, Galileo Solis. Mr. Endara was 27 at the time.
The firm, now called Solis, Endara, Delgado & Guevara, had always specialized in corporate work, although in its early growth years, ''they took on just about anybody who walked in the door,'' said a Panamanian lawyer familiar with the firm.
Solis Endara was thus well-positioned to take advantage of the explosion in commercial activity in Panama that occurred after the military coup of 1968, which toppled President Arias on his 11th day in office; it was the third time he had been deposed by the military since 1941.
Much of the success of Panama's financial center in the 1970's and 80's, Mr. Endara readily acknowledges, was a result of the Latin American drug cartels, which brought billions in cocaine and marijuana profits to be laundered in Panama. But the President says that neither he nor his law partners ever knowingly worked with drug traffickers or accepted their money.
In the interview in his newly renovated office at the presidential palace, which only a month ago had been occupied by American combat troops, Mr. Endara also dismissed press reports in the United States that Second Vice President Billy Ford's brother, Henry Ford, was associated with a Miami accountant who was convicted of laundering money for the Medellin cartel.
Others familiar with Mr. Endara and Billy Ford, from childhood friends to longtime political adversaries, say that whatever their faults, they are not corrupt.
''I know Billy Ford since we were 10 years old,'' said I. Roberto Eisenmann Jr., a businessman and publisher of the fiercely anti-Noriega newspaper La Prensa. ''I know basically everything he's done in his professional life, including all the temptations he has had, and I know he has never broken under them.''
Mr. Endara said of his own law firm: ''We did legal work under the dictatorship without any help from the Government, but we have done no business with narcotraffickers or anything like that that we know of.''
''But,'' he said, ''like any lawyer, I cannot vouch that every client who comes through our doors is a saint.
''Like many other law firms in Panmama, we are often asked to do company work, such as incorporating companies,'' he went on. ''It's possible that we might help someone incorporate a company - and then maybe they would use the company for something else.
''The fact is, I'm not sure of everybody I do legal work for, but I do try to avoid shady characters.''
According to a presidential spokesman, Louis Martinez, Mr. Endara remains a partner of the firm, but suspended his working relationship at the beginning of the political campaign last year. ''He will not be returning until he leaves public office,'' the spokesman said.
 
A Close Friend And an Atlanta Arrest
 Mr. Endara said he remained ''close friends'' with Carlos Eleta, a wealthy Panamanian businessman who was arrested in Atlanta last April on charges that he conspired to set up a major cocaine smuggling ring. He was released on bail pending his trial.
People here who know Mr. Eleta remain puzzled by his arrest, saying that the idea of drug smuggling seems totally out of character for him. Some Panamanians, like Guillermo Sanchez Borbon, political columnist for the daily La Prensa, suggest that he may even have been set up by General Noriega or people close to him.
''Carlos Eleta is a friend, but we have nothing in common with him in the sense that we are not partners with him in anything, anything that I know of,'' Mr. Endara said, ''although he may have shares in some company that I might have shares in.
''He's a friend, but I have many friends in Panama.''
The law firm's current clients, Mr. Endara said, include a cross-section of major Panamanian companies.
''We're not a big firm,'' Mr. Endara said. ''In addition to the partners, we have another lawyer and some secretaries. In all, 12 people working in the office.''
Asked whether he had felt apprehensive about being offered the presidential nomination last year, Mr. Endara sighed heavily. ''I was not apprehensive, I was surprised,'' he said. ''I had not sought this nomination.
''A group of politicians felt that somebody representing Dr. Arias - his prestige, his authority with the masses - should be on the ticket.''
Nearly two years after his death in Miami at the age of 86, Dr. Arias - or simply ''Arnulfo,'' as Panamanians commonly refer to him - still exerts an eerie gravitational pull on public life here.
After Dr. Arias's young widow, Mireyea, turned down repeated offers that she run for the presidency as the candidate of the National Civic Crusade, Mr. Endara said, the job was thrust upon him. He says he accepted it philosophically.
''I remember Dr. Arias always saying to me and to others that responsibilities for the country were things that came upon oneself by force of destiny.
''It's sort of like karma. You know about karma? I'm not an Orientalist, I'm not a Buddhist, I'm not anything like that. But I've read books, and I learned that karma was something that you have to accept. I was surprised, but I felt an obligation to do my best, to finish the work of my teacher, my maestro, my mentor. And that is still my thought here.''
Mr. Sanchez Borbon of La Prensa said he believed that whatever his political skills, Mr. Endara's easy-going ways might be exactly what the country wanted right now.
''After all the horror we've had, I think he is a good choice,'' Mr. Sanchez Borbon said. ''He's a very humble man, very placid - anything but charismatic. But he may surprise people.''
 
A New Friendship And a New Life
 Some would say he already has. A few weeks ago, Mr. Endara was observed in a booth of the Marriott Hotel coffee shop with a dark-haired young woman who, reporters agreed, was definitely not Marcelita, his 26-year-old married daughter.
Soon after the much-talked-about sighting, Mr. Endara announced that he was dating the woman, 24-year-old Ana Mae Diaz. He has been a widower since June, when his wife, Marcela, died of a heart attack, a month after the abortive May 7 elections that were followed by street clashes in which her husband was beaten by paramilitary toughs.
Mr. Endara and Miss Diaz had met in September, when she went to visit him during his two-week hunger strike against the Noriega Government. At the time, Mr. Endara, who says he lost 30 of his 265 pounds on the liquid-only diet, was usually flat on his back on a hospital bed in the window of a downtown office building, where skeptics could see for themselves that he wasn't eating.
''We're still getting to know each other,'' the President was quoted as saying of Miss Diaz this week.
That is a good description, many Panamanians say, of the relationship between Mr. Endara and the people of this close-knit country of 2.4 million as it struggles to reconstitute itself as a independent civilian democracy.
''In essence, I really don't care what reputation I acquire,'' President Endara said, sounding a bit like his beloved mentor. ''What is important to me is to do my duty to the Panamanian people, to act in their interest and according to their will.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Guillermo Endara visiting a refugee camp in Panama City on Christmas Day. Unlike many of his predecessors in Panama's 21 years of military rule, the civilian President appears guileless and self-effacing. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LAWYERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ARMED FORCES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); POLICE FORCES (70%); TRENDS (69%); CHRISTMAS (66%); 

PERSON: PITT, DAVID E; ENDARA, GUILLERMO (PRES); NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN) GUILLERMO ENDARA GALIMANY (96%); 



647 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Nicaragua Approaches an Election That May Rise or Fall on Its Fairness

BYLINE: By MARK A. UHLIG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Jan. 27

 BODY:
With less than a month to go before Nicaragua's elections, leaders of the governing Sandinista Front and their opponents are entering the final phase of what all sides say will be a decisive referendum on a decade of Sandinista rule.
Sandinista leaders say the elections, scheduled for Feb. 25, will prove the legitimacy of their revolutionary effort and help them rebuild Nicaragua after years of civil war. Their opponents, also convinced that the moment is right, are expecting the repudiation of a system they say has brought their country to the brink of ruin.
And for the hundreds of diplomats, observers and other dignitaries who will monitor the voting, the key test will come in the election process itself. After a decade of warfare, they say, the election's success will be measured not by its outcome but by its fairness and the willingness of both sides to accept the results. 
''The electoral process serves to pave the way for national reconciliation,'' said Angelica Hunt, spokeswoman for the 200-member United Nations team assigned to observe the vote. ''However divided the country may be, the elections start the process of burying the hatchet.''
 
A Toss-Up, Many Say
Most experts consider the vote a toss-up. Opinion polls have produced widely varying portraits of the country's diverse, divided electorate.
But after some initial violence, campaign rallies and organizing efforts are now proceeding smoothly. And many diplomats and other foreign specialists are hoping that the process will produce quick, tangible improvements in the country's situation, whichever side wins.
If the elections are widely perceived as fair, they assert, they could be expected to put an end to the civil war, either by removing the rationale for any further American aid to the contras or by removing the Government that the rebels oppose. Such a result, the diplomats and specialists say, would also permit foreign countries, presumably including the United States, to normalize relations with Nicaragua on the assumption that the Government had popular support.
''The most important thing is to show the will of the Nicaraguan people,'' said Alfonso Lopez Michelsen, a former President of Colombia who is here as an election observer.
 
Leaders on Display
In the bright billboards and colorful ads that have sprung up in even the most remote villages, the campaign has centered on the two major presidential candidates: Daniel Ortega Saavedra, who is seeking re-election from the Sandinista National Liberation Front, and Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, from the 14-party National Opposition Union.
Mr. Ortega, 44 years old, has abandoned the uniform and stern bearing of his early years in office and is now shown jogging and hugging babies. Images of Mrs. Chamorro, a 60-year-old widow, have stressed the sacrifices of her husband, Pedro Joaquin Chamorro, the most famous victim of the struggle against the former dictator, Anastasio Somoza Debayle.
Picturing Sandinista leaders as disciples of a failed Marxist ideal, the opposition leaders have focused their attacks on Nicaragua's sharp economic decline. Government statistics show that in more than 10 years of Sandinista rule, the Nicaraguan economy has shrunk by half. Since 1981, private consumption has fallen by 70 percent, and real wages, eroded by inflation, are more than 90 percent lower, forcing large numbers of people into serious poverty and leaving many unable to afford more than one or two meals a day.
''In any other country in the world,'' a European diplomat said, ''an incumbent government would not have a prayer of re-election with this kind of economic situation.''
 
Managua Sees U.S. Instigation
Government leaders, who say they have now stabilized the crisis, say it was created by the contra war and by a United States trade embargo, rather than mismanagement or official policy. In recent weeks, Government economists announced that annual inflation in 1989 had fallen to 1,700 percent, down from 36,000 percent in 1988.
And Sandinista strategists have used their economic battles with the United States as part of a broader national campaign against Mrs. Chamorro, whom they describe as a stalking horse for Yankee imperialism.
They have relentlessly attacked her coalition, saying it has connections to the contras and to the Somoza dictatorship. The opposition leadership includes several well-known former contra officials, and the Sandinistas have accused dozens more of hiding their contra connections or membership in Mr. Somoza's widely despised National Guard. And they have accused the estimated 3,000 contras still inside Nicaragua of waging a war of ''armed propaganda'' on behalf of Mrs. Chamorro.
Those nationalist themes were sharply underscored on Nov. 1, when President Ortega announced that the Government was suspending a 19-month cease-fire with the contra army because of what he described as a rebel plan to disrupt the elections.
And they were further highlighted after the United States invasion of Panama, when the Government mobilized troops throughout the country. The Defense Minister, Gen. Humberto Ortega Saavedra, declared that the Government would execute local opposition figures, presumably including leaders of the opposition coalition, if the United States made any attempt to extend its intervention to Nicaragua.
 
'84 Withdrawal Recalled
Sandinista officials have also asserted that opposition leaders are considering withdrawing from the campaign, as they did in a 1984 election under what the opponents said was pressure from the Reagan Administration.
Most anti-Sandinista leaders still assert that the conditions of the 1984 vote made a victory by the opposition impossible. But many say the decision to withdraw was an error that, by cutting off any anti-Sandinista political option, thrust the nation into the worst years of the contra war. And all the principal opposition leaders say they are determined to follow the current campaign through to the end.
The coalition ''is firm and is not going to withdraw,'' Mrs. Chamorro declared flatly in a recent interview at her Managua home.
Perhaps the most controversial issue in the election campaign thus far has been the Bush Administration's decision to send $9 million in aid to help the opposition's political campaign. Sandinista leaders have seized on the aid as proof that Mrs. Chamorro's coalition is a ''rented opposition,'' and have alleged that as much as $30 million more has reached opposition parties through secret channels over the last five years.
 
Sandinista Predominance So Far
But the majority of the United States aid, which under Nicaraguan law must be split between the opposition coalition and Government bodies administering the vote, has still not reached Nicaragua. And diplomats and foreign experts agree that the great bulk of campaign spending and advertising so far has been by the Sandinista Front.
''The perception abroad is that the opposition is the one with the money,'' said an envoy whose country has been neutral in the long contra war. ''But one look out on the streets will tell you that it's just the opposite.''
Although Sandinista leaders generally dismiss the possibility of an opposition victory, they have stated that they will accept the verdict of the voters, and hand over control of the government if they should lose. Opposition leaders, as well, have publicly committed themselves to abiding by the outcome of the election.
As provided in a February 1988 Central American peace accord, the voting process will be supervised by the United Nations and the Organization of American States, each of which will field approximately 200 trained election observers on voting day. That effort will be augmented by separate, officially accredited monitoring groups from several countries and a team of dignitaries led by former President Jimmy Carter.
Under Nicaraguan law, all citizens 16 and older, including military personnel, may participate in the elections. In a four-week registration period in October, 1.7 million people, or more than 90 percent of those eligible, signed up to vote, according to Government figures.

GRAPHIC: A campaign billboard in Managua, Nicaragua, reading ''The Best,'' shows President Daniel Ortega Saavedra, who has abandoned his uniform in favor of a casual image, and his running mate, Sergio Ramirez. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); ELECTION MONITORING (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (63%); 

PERSON: UHLIG, MARK A MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 



648 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 46, Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Jennifer A. Leahy To Marry in April

 BODY:
Jennifer Anne Leahy, a daughter of Judge and Mrs. Vincent Francis Leahy of Newton, Mass., and Ronald Joseph Kim, a son of Dr. and Mrs. Hyung Kim of Glens Falls, N.Y., plan to be married in April.
The prospective bride, 29 years old, is a senior account executive at Mullen Advertising in Wenham, Mass. She graduated from the Newton Country Day School and the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. Her father is a judge of the Middlesex Probate Court in Cambridge, Mass.
The prospective bridegroom, 30, an associate in the Boston law firm of Goodwin Proctor & Hoar, graduated from Colgate University and received a master's degree in international political economy from the University of Chicago. He received a J.D. degree from Fordham University. His father is a surgeon at Glens Falls Hospital.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jennifer Leahy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON LAW FIRM LLP (57%); GOODWIN PROCTER LLP (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); COLGATE UNIVERSITY (57%); COLGATE UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (87%); PROBATE (73%); 

PERSON: LEAHY, JENNIFER ANNE; KIM, RONALD JOSEPH TONY NEWTON (74%); 



649 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 36, Column 4; Style Desk

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Campus Life: Swarthmore;
Students Forgo Part of Vacation To Study Diversity

DATELINE: SWARTHMORE, Pa.

 BODY:
More than 100 students voluntarily cut short their winter vacations to join a workshop at Swarthmore College last weekend intended to promote tolerance for diversity on and off campus.
Called ''Exploring a World of Difference,'' the workshop was held primarily to prevent serious incidents of discrimination.
''We wanted to take on issues that are important to the college community and not wait for an incident,'' said Eva Travers, the associate dean. 
Janet Dickerson, the college's dean, said the weekend was also ''a means for people to focus on their personal assumptions and identities.'' She said it is ''part of a larger program to provide a context for students to acquire a deeper understanding of themselves and a greater appreciation for their potential role in society.''
Participants began the two-day workshop with films on racism and homophobia. In groups of 15 to 20, they engaged in role playing and other exercises through which they examined destructive uses of language and their own assumptions and stereotypes about people.
 
A Diverse Staff
The workshop explored several dimensions of diversity, including race, gender, socio-economic class, handicaps and sexual orientation, but always at the personal level.
''Through social conditioning and lack of exposure to equal contact with people who are different, many are not trained to see, analyze and figure out the impact of their actions,'' said Thomas A. Gordon, director of Interface Associates, a private consulting firm hired to conduct the workshop. He said an effort was made to show that diversity can be an asset rather than a liability.
Reaction from workshop participants has been largely positive.
''I was excited to have an opportunity to talk about my background,'' said Charissa Ahlstrom, a sophomore from New York City who described her background as Christian.
Heather Hill, a sophomore from Glastonbury, Conn., said the workshop helped her accomplish her goal of ''making people who are different from me feel comfortable and feel that I am not putting them on the spot.''
About half of the paricipants met last week to discuss ways to continue what the weekend had started. Some of the small groups have also started meeting to explore issues of discrimination. Many students expressed interest in educating others and promoting institutional changes, including requiring all students to take a course on diversity.
''There was a sense of real energy and individual growth that came out of the workshop,'' Ms. Travers said. ''The question now is how much of that energy is going to result in systemic changes or ongoing discussions.''
How much of that energy results in similar activities campuswide, Ms. Dickerson said, depends largely on the budget. She said preliminary estimates put the cost of the workshop at about $25,000, which was paid out of the president's discretionary fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: SWARTHMORE COLLEGE

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); RACE & RACISM (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); 

PERSON: JANET DICKERSON (69%); EVA TRAVERS (69%); 



650 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 31, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2275 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION;
Can the Old Spirit Of the MTM Studio Be Recaptured?

BYLINE: By NEAL KOCH; Neal Koch is a senior editor of Channels magazine.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
Television viewers may soon wonder if their favorite kitten has returned home. By spring, MTM Entertainment, whose meowing logo became synonymous with quality programming in the 1970's through the mid-80's, will, after a fallow period, have new shows on each of the big three commercial networks.
Having its premiere tomorrow night at 8:30 on CBS is ''City,'' starring Valerie Harper as a city manager in Ms. Harper's first MTM show since ''Rhoda'' ended in 1978. ABC has tentatively scheduled for a March launch ''Capital News,'' an hourlong drama centered around journalists at a Washington newspaper; David Milch, former co-executive producer of ''Hill Street Blues,'' is one of the series' creators. Also in March, NBC will put on its schedule ''FM,'' a half-hour sitcom set in a public-broadcasting radio station, which had a short run on that network last year; its creators include Allan Burns of ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show'' and ''Rhoda'' and Dan Wilcox and Burt Metcalfe of ''M*A*S*H.''
These shows will join MTM's ''Newhart,'' now in its eighth season on CBS. This fall, MTM plans to launch a syndication division that will offer original programming, starting with a cooking show featuring Graham Kerr, the former ''Galloping Gourmet.'' 
At MTM, ''morale is enormously high,'' says James Gatward, chairman and acting chief executive, as well as chief executive of TVS Entertainment, the British broadcasting company that purchased MTM in 1988.
Nevertheless, Hollywood insiders caution viewers against getting their hopes up too high. The old MTM, or at least its distinctive spirit, they say, is gone. In part, it's the victim of the changing economics of television that are squeezing many small studios. But to a larger extent, its disappearance is the story of how a former talent agent and personal manager and an attorney took a creatively driven company and endangered its financial health by weakening the soul of what once may have been Hollywood's most sought-after workplace for writers.
''Those men created an atmosphere of suspicion, mistrust, anger,'' says the writer/producer Stephen Bochco, who was fired from MTM in 1985 and later sued over his ''Hill Street Blues'' earnings. ''They behaved despicably. And my guess is that they don't even perceive it as such. I simply don't think there was, in a business sense, any ethical center to the company.''
The men - Arthur Price, chief executive and president, who left last fall after the company's projected financial loss was disclosed, and Mel Blumenthal, senior executive vice president - deny any lapses or insensitivities that have alienated talent, though they admit to more hard-nosed tactics than were previously employed by the company. To the contrary, they argue, MTM may be on the verge of unprecedented success.
Not everyone agrees. For instance, Mr. Milch of ''Capitol News'' is expected to leave for a rival studio, Columbia, when his contract ends in a few weeks, and this is probably the last season for ''Newhart.'' Moreover, studio morale suffered late last year when TVS-directed cost-cutting chopped the list of writer-producer teams under contract to 15 from 22 and eliminated the jobs of some senior staff members.
Before its decline, MTM was by many accounts the closest Hollywood has come to Camelot in recent years. In the 1970's, the studio turned out a raft of lighthearted, sophisticated character comedies for television, including ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show'' and ''The Bob Newhart Show.'' Later, it drew devoted audiences with such multilayered dramas as ''Hill Street Blues'' and ''St. Elsewhere.'' All this was possible, say many MTM alumni and their associates, because the small, privately held shop was built around the love and respect for writers that Grant Tinker, the company's president, became known for.
For a time ''it was Valhalla for a writer,'' says Jay Tarses, creator of ''The Days and Nights of Molly Dodd'' and ''The 'Slap' Maxwell Story'' and co-creator of ''Buffalo Bill.'' Mr. Tarses left MTM in 1978.
Recalls Mr. Bochco, whose other shows have included ''L.A. Law'' and ''Doogie Howser, M.D.,'' ''We would always find an excuse to wander up to the [administration building's] fourth floor once a day, because Grant was this wonderful, easygoing guy who was the touchstone for us all.''
By several accounts, when Mr. Tinker, his then-wife Mary Tyler Moore and Mr. Price, the actress's business manager, began building MTM in 1970 to do ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show,'' Mr. Tinker declared that their main goal should be to have fun. If that aim ever eluded them, he added, they should fold their tent.
So, MTM pioneered the practice of putting writers in control of their own creations by making them producers. Many writers worked in a two-story building on MTM's intimate campuslike lot in the San Fernando Valley, wandering in and out of each other's shows, offering jokes and making suggestions. If a show failed and writers turned glum, Mr. Tinker was known to remind them that mankind did not hang in the balance - it was only television, he would say, and then move on to ask about their ideas for their next show.
As word about that approach spread and the quality of the programs became apparant, promising but inexperienced talents sought out MTM, where Mr. Tinker was often willing to nurture them. For instance, Hugh Wilson, who would later create the series ''The Famous Teddy Z,'' ''Frank's Place'' and ''WKRP in Cincinnati,'' gave up the presidency of an Atlanta advertising agency to work for $200 a week at MTM.
But with success in the late 1970's the studio grew larger and less intimate. At the same time, others caught on to what Mr. Tinker was doing. In 1977, Paramount, one of the largest studios, raided the core of Mr. Tinker's comedy shop. It offered the writers the opportunity to do movies, as well as much larger ownership rights in the TV shows they created. Paramount lured away James L. Brooks, Ed. Weinberger (who whimsically uses a period after his first name), Stan Daniels and Dave Davis, who together then created ''Taxi.'' Others followed, including Gary David Goldberg; his series ''Family Ties,'' produced at Paramount, is expected to earn him between $70 million and $100 million.
Although a drain of MTM's talent had begun, the studio's reputation still attracted new writers, such as Mr. Bochco and Bruce Paltrow, co-executive producer of ''St. Elsewhere,'' who were eager to break television's tired conventions.
But then in 1981, Mr. Tinker left to run NBC. ''Suddenly,'' says Mr. Bochco, ''there appeared on every office door on the fourth floor one of those electric door closers, and suddenly all the doors were closed.''
A mood of complacency set in. Despite the emergence of few new hits to replace the studio's past successes, Mr. Price and Mr. Blumenthal did relatively little to recruit fresh talent. ''MTM had been so used to writers coming to them,'' says Hugh Wilson, ''I guess they just presumed - or hoped - they'd just keep showing up.''
But they didn't. Moreover, relationships between the writers already at MTM and the fourth floor, which housed the executive offices, worsened. In 1985, Mr. Price fired Mr. Bochco after taking personally their strong differences of opinion, according to Mr. Price and others. More recently, MTM declined to pick up its option on Mr. Paltrow's contract. MTM executives say it was because of the failure in 1988 of Mr. Paltrow's series ''Tattinger's,'' and his desire to do another drama that they didn't consider sufficiently commercial. Mr. Paltrow disagrees, saying, ''It was personal. They resented me because I felt they behaved unethically.'' Ms. Moore, the only founder of MTM to retain a financial interest in the studio through her holdings in TVS, says that some firings were necessary because, in her words, the ''near autonomy'' given the studio's writers ''seems to have gotten out of hand.''
Distrust spread among the writers, several of whom claim that financial dealings with MTM became distressing. Although Mr. Price and Mr. Blumenthal deny it, some writers and their agents say that they found it extremely difficult to obtain profit statements on series in which the writers held interests - a problem common at some other studios but unexpected at MTM.
''My business manager has many times requested profit statements on 'St. Elsewhere,' and we've gotten nothing,'' says Mr. Paltro. ''The pattern was that they would do terrible things and when you called them on it, they would get outraged. It was sick.''
In response, Mr. Blumenthal says, ''Bruce has gotten profit participation statements on every show he's had profit participation in.''
Regardless, the atmosphere, particularly in money matters, often became rancorous. ''It just wasn't pleasant doing business with them,'' says Franklin Rohner, a Los Angeles lawyer who represents several prominent writer-producers, including Mr. Bochco, for whom he says he had to go to court to inspect MTM's accounting books. Mr. Bochco eventually obtained a settlement.
Perhaps most sorely felt was the lack of Mr. Tinker's personal touch. For instance, Mr. Tinker - who declined to be interviewed for this article - used to accompany his writers into dreaded meetings with network executives, who typically second-guess the writers' script and casting choices. Mr. Tinker went along to throw his weight behind his writers. ''The times he felt you had been wronged creatively,'' says Mr. Goldberg, ''he was a bear.'' The much shyer Mr. Price hired subordinates to handle such tasks. MTM's fortunes suffered. By the 1987-88 season, the studio's executives began to question whether they had lost the ability to put shows on the air, and the company was sold. An uneasy feeling spread among some in Hollywood's creative community when veteran employees, officers of MTM, and even Mr. Tinker, didn't share in any of the $320 million in proceeds. (To avoid any conflicts of interest, Mr. Tinker had sold his share in the studio after joining NBC.) Instead, the money was split among Mr. Price, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Moore and, to a lesser extent, one other executive, Thomas Palmieri.
Now MTM finds itself in both creative and financial difficulties, having lost roughly $11.7 million in fiscal 1989 and projecting another loss for this year. Nevertheless, Mr. Price and Mr. Blumenthal acknowledge only minor changes in MTM's work atmosphere under their leadership. They attribute the frictions that did develop with some of the creative talent to a harsher industry economic environment and to misperceptions.
Mr. Price contends that in substance he's been just as supportive of talent as Mr. Tinker, and a few writers agree. ''The tone of the company hasn't changed, I don't think, from its start,'' says Allan Burns, who has been at MTM from its inception, ''or I wouldn't be here.''
The perceptual problem, Mr. Price contends, arises from his inability to shake his earlier role as head of MTM business affairs, when, he says, Mr. Tinker cast him as the bad cop to Mr. Tinker's good cop. That's a typical Hollywood management style aimed at maintaining a creative executive's ability - despite hard-nosed handling of business affairs - to lure talent back for the next dance. ''All the good news comes from me,'' Mr. Price quotes Mr. Tinker as once telling him. ''All the bad news comes from you.''
Under Mr. Tinker, says Mr. Price, ''we were perceived as a very paternalistic company, and Grant was perceived as the padrone. I held on to as much of it as I could,'' Mr. Price adds with evident mixed emotions. But, ''with the press, nobody is as good as Grant. I was envious.''
Mr. Price and Mr. Blumenthal say they were also the victims of increasingly difficult industry economics. Paramount began bidding up the price of writers in the late 1970's, about the same time that network fees paid to studios for their shows began falling behind soaring increases in studio production costs. For instance, when ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show'' had its premiere in 1970, CBS paid MTM about $18,000 per episode, more than it cost to make the show, according to Mr. Price. Today, a half-hour situation comedy can run $150,000 in the red per episode. ''It's very easy to be gracious when on the [American] network run you're walking out with $20,000 profit,'' says Mr. Price, ''and then you have Canadian runs and foreign runs.''
Mr. Gatward, a former soap-opera director, says he's committed to making quality shows. But he is under considerable pressure from stockholders at home in England who now question whether he overpaid for MTM. Following TVS's announcement last September of MTM's expected loss for 1989, TVS's stock fell 26 percent. At the time, Mr. Gatward was already moving to mollify stockholders by accumulating capital for a bid to retain TVS's lucrative broadcasting license in the United Kingdom when it will be auctioned off in 1991, under Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's privatization program.
So, he slapped ceilings on the budgets of new MTM series programming, introduced the cooking show, laid off employees and hopes to start making 12 Movies of the Week annually to spread the studio's expensive overhead. And he's looking for a new studio chief - as well as a major investor willing to pump in cash in return for up to 49 percent of MTM.
Even critics concede that MTM might prosper again, but for now, observes Mr. Bochco, ''MTM's mandate is different. It's no longer a closely held boutique.''
''It may be,'' adds Mr. Goldberg, ''that MTM as Camelot could only exist in a time of more innocence.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Valerie Harper plays a city manager in ''City,'' beginning tomorrow on CBS; Daniel Roebuck and Jenny Wright portray reporters for a Washington newspaper in ''Capital News,'' scheduled to begin in March on ABC; Nicole Huntington and Robert Hays play daughter and father in ''FM,'' set in a public-broadcasting radio station. It is also due in March, on NBC. (Ron Tom) (pg. 31); James Gatward (above), head of the British company that bought MTM, including its familiar logo (at left), in 1988. ''Morale is enormously high,'' he says. (pg. 37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FM (TV PROGRAM); CAPITOL NEWS (TV PROGRAM); CITY (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: MTM ENTERTAINMENT INC

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; TELEVISION; TELEVISION; TELEVISION TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (95%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WRITERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (79%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (79%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (79%); JOURNALISM (79%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (74%); ETHICS (74%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); DISMISSALS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); 

PERSON: KOCH, NEAL VALERIE HARPER (72%); MARY TYLER MOORE (55%); 



651 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1, Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 3977 words

HEADLINE: How 'Annie 2' Skidded Off a Bumpy Road To Broadway

BYLINE: By MERVYN ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
The sun came out on Monday morning, Nov. 6, 1989, and so did the reporters and television news crews, for the first day of rehearsal of ''Annie 2: Miss Hannigan's Revenge.'' The $7 million musical continuation of ''Annie,'' which was one of the most successful shows in Broadway history, had been announced with much hoopla in June, and anticipation was high.
Even before this first day, the show had received enormous nationwide attention: attention based on ''Annie,'' which had opened on Broadway in 1977 and closed in 1983 after 2,377 performances. ''Annie'' had cost $800,000 and had made a profit of $20 million, including a $9.5 million movie sale, not bad for a musical about a comic-strip orphan. Many people believed that ''Annie 2'' could be just as profitable, and the interest and publicity it was receiving did little to engender any doubts.
What was to happen in the next three months, however, would provide a classic example of how difficult it is to try to create a hit Broadway musical. Events would clearly illustrate that there is no sure thing, that what looks fantastic in small scale at a backers' audition in someone's living room may not work on a stage in front of a large audience. 
Events would also reflect Broadway history: that the most experienced creators can still come up with a bomb. Even the best - Rodgers and Hammerstein, Stephen Sondheim - have written shows that failed critically, financially, or both.
The members of the ''Annie 2'' team have, among them, hundreds of years of experience in the theater. Many had worked on ''Annie.'' They include Martin Charnin, the show's director and lyricist; Dorothy Loudon, reprising her role as Miss Hannigan, Annie's archenemy; Thomas Meehan, who wrote the book; Charles Strouse, the composer, who also worked on ''Bye, Bye Birdie'' and ''Applause''; David Mitchell, the scenic designer; Theoni V. Aldredge, the costume designer; and Lewis Allen, one of the producers. Harve Presnell, who has the part of Daddy Warbucks, wasn't the original (Reid Shelton was), but he played the role on Broadway for hundreds of performances. ''Annie'' won the Tony Award for best musical in 1977, and Mr. Charnin, Ms. Loudon, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Strouse, Mr. Mitchell and Ms. Aldredge also garnered Tonys for their work.
The schedule for ''Annie 2'' called for six weeks of rehearsals, with preview performances beginning at the Kennedy Center Opera House in Washington on Dec. 22. The New York opening was set for March 1 at the Marriott Marquis Theater. Previews in New York were to begin Feb. 5.
They won't. On Jan. 15, after disastrous Washington reviews, hundreds of changes in the script and the score, and thousands of words of advice from friends and colleagues, the producers announced that ''Annie 2'' would not be coming to Broadway this season.
Work is to continue on the show and a revised version is to be tried out in late spring or early summer at the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Conn. The idea, the producers say, is to bring a new version of the musical to Broadway in late fall or early winter. They are facing heavy odds: few if any shows have canceled a scheduled Broadway opening and then made it to Broadway the next season.
The producers said on Jan. 15 that they hoped to bring a revival of the original ''Annie'' to Broadway in the spring, but eight days later, they announced that plans for the revival had been delayed. Many productions close out of town before reaching Broadway, but few have the advance publicity of ''Annie 2.'' This is the story of what went wrong: the hard-knock life of ''Annie 2.''
 
No Sequel or Prequel But a 'Continuation'
 ''It's a very heartening moment,'' Mr. Charnin says that early November morning in a rehearsal studio at 890 Broadway, just before the cast begins to pose for photographs and answer questions from the press. ''The first time 'Annie' surfaced, back in 1976, at the Goodspeed Opera House, there was one lady who took a Polaroid - which didn't come out.''
The road to success for the original ''Annie'' was not an easy one. It had its problems out of town. But between Goodspeed and its opening in 1977 many changes were made. And when it opened in Washington, it was an instant hit; it was an even bigger hit in New York.
Plans for ''Annie 2'' were first announced by Mr. Charnin in 1982, when the original ''Annie'' was still running, with the hope of opening on Broadway in 1983. He also mentioned the idea on stage the night that ''Annie'' closed. Those plans were delayed, but finally, last June, ''Annie 2: Miss Hannigan's Revenge'' was announced. It would not be a sequel the producers said; it would be a continuation, beginning six weeks after ''Annie'' ended, with Miss Hannigan in prison plotting revenge.
Media response was immediate. At the open auditions for the new Annie in New York in September there were almost as many reporters and photographers as little girls. When the young actress - 11-year-old Danielle Findley of Lee's Summit, Mo. - was chosen, not from the open calls but from a private audition held later, she soon found her face on the cover of Life magazine.
The producers put their belief in the show into a huge, enormously expensive advertising campaign. But by the middle of this month, the advance was only $3.7 million - which may sound like a lot but pales beside the $19 million for ''Phantom of the Opera'' and translates into perhaps six or seven weeks of tickets.
 
A Script Marked 'Confidential'
 Mr. Charnin gathers everyone around a piano, and for the first time the cast sings the new show's theme song, the song everyone hopes will be for ''Annie 2'' what ''Tomorrow'' was for ''Annie'':
''When you smile, I smile,'' they sing. ''Your smile makes my smile.'' Everyone is smiling. It is the afternoon now, and time for the first reading of the script, which many cast members have not seen. They are handed a large, red-covered volume with the word ''Confidential'' on it. The press is gone except for two reporters who are pledged to silence, for now. ''There is a secret in the thing,'' Mr. Charnin says. ''It's very important that this little trick not be talked about, not be given away.''
He begins with a warning. ''Musicals are still excruciatingly difficult to do. They are still handmade, molecule by molecule, joke by joke, step by step.'' But then he adds that he is optimistic. ''We're very liked in Washington. I have a feeling we'll take Washington by storm.''
No one in the room knows, of course, that by the time the show closes in Washington on Jan. 20, each of the script's 145 pages will have been changed.
The plot, in brief: The curtain rises on the Women's House of Detention in Greenwich Village, with Miss Hannigan in prison scheming for revenge. She soon escapes during a fire. Meanwhile, Congresswoman Marietta Christmas tells Warbucks it is illegal for an unmarried man to adopt an 11-year-old girl and unless he marries she will see to it that Annie is removed from his custody. He decides to hold a contest for a wife - any single woman interested in a bald, middle-aged man with protruding ears and $900 million is eligible. Miss Hannigan reads about the contest and decides to disguise herself and try to win.
The secret? Miss Hannigan discovers another orphan, who looks just like Annie and who will be trained to take over when Miss Hannigan pulls a switch. The fake Annie will choose Miss Hannigan as her mother.
Even before the end comes in Washington, Scene 1 will no longer exist; Miss Hannigan will never be in prison. It will be revealed that after ''Annie'' ended, Warbucks gave Miss Hannigan a one-way steamer ticket to Argentina. In Scene 2, we will learn that she has jumped ship and is back in New York plotting her revenge.
After the reading, a few small doubts are expressed. One of the show's producers says there is not enough Annie. Someone else wonders why there are no orphans. It's not that kind of show, the members of the creative team say. It's not a repeat of ''Annie.'' The thought is that this show must be more sophisticated, must have more appeal for adults, in order to succeed. That, they will say later, was their first mistake.
 
Speaking Openly, Behind Closed Doors
 ''I did not want to do this show,'' says Charles Strouse, the musical's composer, ''as I did not want to do the first one. I didn't want this to be a piece that was just an expression of greed.'' It is Nov. 17, a week later, and Mr. Strouse is sitting behind a closed door in a small room off the rehearsal studio and expressing the first real doubts anyone has spoken of openly. He is afraid of what the critics and his peers on Broadway will say. ''It's not a musical in which characters discuss their psychological underpinnings,'' he says. ''And I feel as though a lot of people are going to ask, 'Where have you been for the last 45 years?'
''We had a free ride in two ways on 'Annie,' '' he says. ''I think it was a good show. But we had 10 weeks to work on it in a very economical situation, at the Goodspeed Opera House. The even bigger free ride was that it was the end of the Watergate era. The week we opened there was an editorial in a New Mexico newspaper that said last night on Broadway a jaded New York audience leaped to its feet when a little girl, instead of taking off her clothes and saying four-letter words, said, 'I love you, Daddy.' I believe we were helped very much by the feeling that people all over the country wanted to say that it's a new time.'' He sighs. ''I don't know whether that's in the air now.''
Later that day, Thomas Meehan, the author of the show's book, is in the same room. Mr. Meehan, a former writer for The New Yorker, is subdued and soft-spoken. He, too, has his doubts.
''I think it's a risky enterprise,'' he says. ''We're certainly going to get a lot of people who say we're just trying to cash in.'' But Mr. Meehan likes what he has done so far and he adds that he does not think the show is just ''a lollipop - Martin and Charles and I, we're all very political.'' One number, he says, expresses that feeling. It's called ''One Tough Town.'' ''To me,'' he says, ''it's a very important song. Even though the show is set in 1934, the song is really about New York now, which is one tough town.''
Mr. Meehan knows there is much work in store for him. The out-of-town schedule is crazy, he says. You rehearse all day, do the show at night, have a meeting after the show for an hour or two, get up in the morning and start to write. ''People always say it's a nightmare to be out of town. But it's not. I like it.''
Dorothy Loudon is on a break. ''This time there's a lot more responsibility on me,'' Ms. Loudon says. In the original ''Annie,'' she had two numbers. The responsibility is worrying her. ''I'm not getting very much sleep,'' she says. ''I wake up at night sort of screaming.''
 
The Stories Audiences Tell
 It is Dec. 12. In two days, the company leaves for Washington and the first performance on Dec. 22. A number has been cut: ''One Tough Town,'' the one Mr. Meehan felt was important. ''Martin walked in the other day and said it was out,'' Mr. Meehan says, ''and as soon as he said it, it was like a light. Because it doesn't serve the show. And now we feel it's flowing just right.'' Mr. Charnin will leave for Washington a day before everyone else. ''It's ready to go,'' he says. ''The audience, of course, may ultimately tell me a whole other story.''
Disaster. The audience has ultimately told another story. Fifteen minutes into the first preview, those involved in the show agree, they all knew that everything was wrong. There is too much Miss Hannigan and very little Annie. The idea that Miss Hannigan would kidnap Annie and plan to kill her, which was not meant to be taken seriously, is now largely viewed as inappropriate.
That night was the first time anyone had seen the complete show on stage with all the sets and costumes. The loading of the scenery had taken longer than expected, and many of the costumes were late, so there was no full dress rehearsal.
The reaction is almost immediate. The official opening night is postponed a week, from Dec. 28 to Jan. 4. About 20 minutes are cut. The first two scenes are switched - the play now opens in Warbucks's offices with a song about 1934, instead of in prison with Miss Hannigan. A new song has been added for Annie called ''Changes,'' about how swiftly changes occur when you are young. It is generally considered one of the best things in the show. 'We Outsmarted Ourselves'
It is Thursday, Jan. 4, a few hours before the opening; the reviews will be out tonight, and everyone expects to be devastated. Mr. Charnin is sitting on a bench in the lobby of the Kennedy Center Opera House, and he is thinking of the last two weeks.
''Up until that first preview,'' he says, ''we - and I'm speaking for Charles and Tom and myself and all the producers - were putting on a show that was for our intellect, and our cynicism, and our supposed sophistication, as opposed to our heart and our spirit. We outsmarted ourselves.
''Because at the first preview there were 700 children in the audience who could not care less about this un-Annied ''Annie.'' Who came to re-experience, or to experience for the first time, this mythological thing that ran for decades in the comic strip. And by virtue of the fact that 700 kids were not having a wonderful time, the 700 sets of parents who came to see their kids have a wonderful time were not having a wonderful time. And there were no real warnings along the way. Nobody said anything.''
On Monday, he says, he is going to New York to audition young girls to play the orphans - Annie's friends from the orphanage are going to come to the mansion. ''She wouldn't have abandoned them,'' he says.
Mr. Charnin is very concerned about the reviews. ''There's only so much you can do,'' he says. ''This musical has not found its character yet. You're limited by the hours of rehearsal. And you're limited by how many brain cells you can produce that can come up with ideas.
''We can get creamed or we can get constructive reviews,'' he adds. ''I just want to be allowed not to act out of desperation.''
It is 11:30 that night, and the first review is in. It is not good. Or rather, it is awful. David Richards of The Washington Post says the show is ''preposterous.'' '' 'Annie' was a musical to take to your heart,'' he writes, ''but you'll want to take a paddle to 'Annie 2.'
''What was so disarming the first time around,'' he adds, ''has become witless and belabored.''
Other reviews will be the same, or worse. The print and television critics will react negatively to practically all elements of the show. The only praise will be for the costumes and sets. The scene is the opening-night party, at Duke Zeibert's restaurant in downtown Washington. Mr. Charnin has taken the Washington Post review into a stairwell to read in private. He returns, sipping a drink, and begins to talk. ''The review is accurate,'' he says. ''I think I would have been appalled had he decided in print that what we were doing didn't need to be worked on.''
The most unfortunate aspect of the review, he says, will be ''its impact on the company and on the audiences, because the audiences who read it are going to come in looking at it through the filter of the criticism.''
There is also the word-of-mouth on Broadway - ''many people on the street are going to be jumping up and down with glee,'' he says, ''thrilled that we got creamed, because that's the way things are on Broadway.''
Later in the evening, he will tell the cast that he was responsible, and the performers should not feel bad. He will say that he got them into the hole and that he and the rest of the creative team will get them out.
But now, he says, ''Never forget that you are talking to the man who wrote 'Tomorrow.' The sun will come out tomorrow. Bet your bottom dollar.''
 
Is There a Doctor In the House?
 It is just before noon the next morning, and the Opera House is practically deserted backstage except for a stagehand working with props. ''I hear Mike Nichols is coming to take over,'' he says.
The Mike Nichols rumor has been with the show since the problems began. Mr. Nichols was a producer of the original, and contributed much to that show. He will appear, but only to see a performance and offer brief advice.
Two hours later, Mr. Charnin is backstage rewriting and cutting. He will take 20 minutes more out of the show. This ebullient and optimistic man appears distracted. He thinks it is likely that the show will not open as planned on March 1 in New York. He needs at least two more weeks.
It is Jan. 15 and there have been many changes. Miss Hannigan has abandoned her distasteful talk of killing the orphan, though what she will do with Annie has been left up in the air. The orphans have been chosen and are about to take their place in Warbucks's mansion. The romance between Miss Hannigan and her partner in crime, played by Ronny Graham, has cooled to a friendship. The contest through which Warbucks was to choose a wife - a scene critics thought was absurd - has been deleted.
The review in the trade newspaper Variety has come out, and it, too, is not good: ''Almost every ingredient that made 'Annie' such a delight for both children and adults is missing.''
In addition to Mr. Nichols, among the friends who have come in at the invitation of the producers and Mr. Charnin are Tommy Tune and Peter Stone. The advice, the producers say, was simple: Go for the truth. ''Mike Nichols said that wherever you're true it's good, and wherever you're not it stinks,'' Mr. Meehan recalls.
Suddenly, late this afternoon, comes surprising news that will be reported all over the country. After hearing the advice and talking among themselves, the producers have decided not to bring the show to Broadway this season. It will close at the Kennedy Center after 36 performances.
Work is to continue and a revised version is to be tried out over the summer at Goodspeed. The producers say if things work well at Goodspeed, they hope to take the show to Broadway in the late fall or early winter.
They add that they want to bring a revival of the original ''Annie'' to Broadway in the spring and hope the investors will put the remaining $2 million of ''Annie 2'' 's $7 million toward it. (Eight days later, word will come that plans for the revival have been delayed. The producers also say they may add another out-of-town stop for ''Annie 2'' after Goodspeed.)
 
Decisionmakers In Velvet Dresses
 When the decision was made not to go to Broadway there were two who argued against it. ''Martin and I were the only ones who felt we could make the New York date,'' Mr. Meehan says, two days after the announcement. But there were other factors, he adds. ''I think Charles Strouse really thought he couldn't do it. He felt written out on the show.''
He pauses. ''I realize now that it was the biggest mistake to call it 'Miss Hannigan's Revenge' and focus on adults. The sense of disappointment here, when the little girls in their velvet dresses came to see Annie, and didn't see Annie, was unbelievable.
''We wanted to do a whole new show,'' he says. ''I think part of it was the feeling among all of us that maybe we were looked down upon by certain people in the theater, that in 'Annie' we'd done something just about orphans and dogs, and it was just for the money, and it was just for a child audience, it wasn't a serious show. So we said, we can write a real grownup show, too. And that's what we did. And we were really stupid.'' Mr. Strouse confirms Mr. Meehan's statement about his doubts. ''I told the producers that I felt myself not knowing what I wanted to do. I said I just did not understand the show.'' He says he is not certain he will rejoin the show at Goodspeed. He has a commitment to work on the musical ''Nick and Nora,'' which is scheduled to come to Broadway in the fall. ''I'm hoping I can work it out,'' he says.
''The thing that attracted everybody about 'Annie 2' originally was that we thought it was self-mocking, and mocking about the original 'Annie,' '' Mr. Strouse says. ''There was a kind of zaniness about it, like the Marx Brothers. We had gone through the sweetness and light thing about Annie, and now we were really sophisticated. The fact is, though, that when it was put on, instead of everybody laughing at ourselves, they found it mean-spirited. We had forgotten how much of a legend the original show had become.''
Later that afternoon, Mr. Charnin is sitting in the bar at the Terrace restaurant upstairs at the Kennedy Center, a drink in his hand and hope in his heart.
''It's ain't over,'' he says. ''This saga is going to 'sahg' for a while.''
 
A Very Expensive 'Workshop'
 It is Jan. 19, and back in New York the producers are talking about their role in what went wrong, and their role in the future of ''Annie 2.''
''What went wrong is one of those great mysteries,'' says Margo Lion. ''There's an article in The Times today about set design. It talks about how you see something on a perfectly bare stage, and there's this incredible magic. And then the set comes up around it, and sometimes the magic is gone.
''And that first night in Washington, we looked at each other and we thought, 'What is this?' It was like taking a miniature and blowing it up, and every flaw was so apparent.'' Roger Berlind believes ''the show is getting better rapidly.'' ''We could have come in to New York with an extended preview period,'' he says. ''And if I didn't think this show could get dramatically better, that might be what we would have done. But I still think this can turn into a megahit, and I want to give it a chance to do that.''
Lewis Allen says that, in retrospect, a key mistake was not planning a run in another city after Washington, before coming to New York. ''Doing that had been the original plan. But it cost so much, and the show was already so expensive, we decided we could do it with just one city.''
Now, Ms. Lion adds, the writers need to retrench. ''They learned a lot,'' she says, laughing. ''It was a very expensive workshop. I know that the cost of education has skyrocketed, but $5 million for one semester is a little much.''
It's over - at least for now. ''Annie 2'' closed in Washington on Saturday night, Jan. 20. Dorothy Loudon, who had been out sick, made it back for the last performance. It was sold out, standing-room only. There was at the end, as is usual on such occasions, a standing ovation.
It is early Sunday afternoon, and Ms. Loudon is talking by telephone from her room at the Watergate Hotel. She does not know what she will do about the summer run at Goodspeed, she says. ''It's so far away. It's hard for me to decide.'' She coughs. Her bronchitis has not completely gone away.
''I really had such high hopes for this,'' she says. ''Everybody did. And I'm just stunned. Stunned.''
It is Tuesday in New York. ''I stayed in Washington yesterday to kind of recover from the whole episode,'' Mr. Charnin says. ''I was feeling a little sorry for myself. I went into a coffee shop and had a cup of coffee, and when I came out there was this musician, looking a little shabby. He parked himself in front of the coffee shop, opened up a trumpet case and began playing.
''And what he was playing was 'Tomorrow.' I asked him if he played it often, and he said, 'Every chance I get.' And I said, 'I'm the guy who wrote that song.'
''So he introduced himself. And then he saw the 'Annie 2' T-shirt I was wearing, and he said, 'What happened, man?' ''
''And I proceeded to tell him, and he started to play 'Tomorrow' again, and then he stopped. And he told me it was going to be all right.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 1); Photos: Danielle Findley and the company in a scene from ''Annie 2: Miss Hannigan's Revenge'' (Martha Swope); Cast and other principals of ''Annie 2,'' from left: Ronny Graham, Dorothy Loudon, Harve Presnell, Tom Meehan, Martin Charnin and, at the piano, Charles Strouse, Danielle Findley and Beau as Sandy (Martha Swope) (pg. 8); The poster from the show at the Kennedy Center Opera House-''The biggest mistake was to focus on adults.'' (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ANNIE 2 (PLAY); ANNIE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER REVIEWS (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); WRITERS (78%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (78%); SONG WRITING (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); MUSIC (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, MERVYN MARTIN CHARNIN (66%); 



652 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
The Big Quandary Over Interest Rates

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
Like Blanche DuBois, the American capital system now finds itself dependent on the kindness - or at least the money - of strangers.
The fear that Japanese investors were not going to keep providing the cash was a big part of last week's sharp declines in the stock and bond markets. Worries over the shaky economy, and fears that the Federal Reserve finds itself in a quandary with no good options, also played a role in the Dow Jones industrial average's fall of 118.67 points, or 4.4 percent, to 2,559.23. It was the worst week for the index since it lost 7.8 percent in the week ending Oct. 13, and left the Dow at its lowest level since July. 
The Government's report on fourth-quarter economic growth showed that business was merely limping along as 1989 ended, a fact being discovered anew virtually each day on Wall Street as one profit disappointment follows another. So far, the fourth quarter is shaping up as the year's worst in that regard. Tom Doerflinger of Paine Webber calculates that just 9 percent of companies reporting so far are doing better than the consensus forecast a month into the quarter, while 41 percent produced negative surprises.
What kept economic growth positive in the final three months of the year was not consumer demand. That was lower. Nor was any help provided from the trade deficit, which worsened. The secret of economic growth in the fourth quarter was that businesses built up inventory, perhaps because they were having trouble finding buyers, and consumers spent more money heating their homes in an unusually cold December.
Government officials rushed to say the weakness shown by real growth, at an annual rate of 0.5 percent, was only temporary, and that things would improve by the middle of the year. But traders are dubious about that forecast.
The next big test for the bond markets will come with the Treasury's refunding next month. That is when Japanese buyers will be offered the chance to step up and buy bonds with the money they failed to spend last week on the 40-year bonds earmarked for the savings and loan bailout. With a dearth of buyers, the yield rose to 8.77 percent by week's end, from a surprisingly high 8.64 percent at Tuesday's offering. Thirty-year Treasuries topped 8.5 percent for the first time since June.
Rising interest rates around the world have helped to put the Fed in a bind. Easier credit is the recommended course for an economy sputtering along as this one seems to be. But pushing interest rates down could send needed capital fleeing to Europe and Asia, which are willing to pay more for money than they have in years. It is, as they say, a quandary.
For much of the 1980's, a key element in the bullish economy and the stock market was that recessions only came when the Fed decided they were needed, and that there was no reason the Fed would want one. Inflation is not so high that the Fed would want a recession now, but the fear is growing that in the new international world of investments and capital, the future depends on the kindness of foreigners, not of the Fed.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Dow performance last week; percent of companies reporting profits at least 10% or above analyst estimates, by quarter, yield on 30-year Treasury bonds, last week

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BAILOUTS (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (64%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD



653 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIARY

BYLINE: By Allen R. Myerson

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
Waiting for the Fed's Next Move
The stock market is falling, interest rates are rising and the Federal Reserve seems afraid to budge. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 118.67 last week, to 2,559.23 - down 9 percent from a high of 2810.15 three weeks ago. It's no irrational panic - just a broad retreat based on rising interest rates, a weakening economy and falling profits. United States Government bond yields rose last week to the highest levels in more than six months. The Federal Reserve can't stoke the economy or the markets by easing credit as long as interest rates are rising abroad. The Government deficit requires huge, continuing investments from foreign countries, especially Japan. But a 40-year, $5 billion Government offering last week to help bail out the savings and loan industry attracted few buyers.
 
G.N.P. Doldrums
New evidence of a slack economy came from Friday's figures on the Gross National Product. The G.N.P. grew just five-tenths of 1 percent in the last quarter of 1989, the worst showing since the spring of 1986. True, Hurricane Hugo, the San Francisco earthquake and strikes at Boeing and Nynex all retarded growth. But only the production of cars that remained unsold kept the G.N.P. from going negative. 
 
Boost in Labor Costs?
Labor costs are likely to head higher as unions won their most generous contracts since 1982 last year. The Labor Department reported that major labor pacts reached in 1988 will raise wages 4 percent in the first year and 3.3 percent annually over the life of the contracts. Union members haven't done as well since their 1982 contracts gave them 3.6 percent annual increases. Overall, industry's labor costs rose 4.8 percent n 1989. Lacy Hunt, chief economist at Carroll McEntee & McGinley said a higher social security tax and minimum wage will boost labor costs more than 6 percent in 1990.
 
Gaining on the Deficit?
Lagging corporate research has put the nation's edge in high technology at risk. In 1989, spending on research and development fell behind inflation for the first time in 14 years. The takeover binge of the late 1980's has gotten much of the blame.
* President Bush has a new plan to encourage Americans to save. Special new accounts would pay interest tax-free, but the deposits themselves would not be deductible. The costs to the Government would be delayed - an advantage for an Administration straining to reduce the deficit.
 
Durable Durables?
Durable goods orders by factories rose a healthy 2.5 percent in December, after a strong gain in November as well. Some economists say that manufacturing has bottomed out. Rosanne Cahn, a First Boston economist, squares the durable goods figures with low G.N.P. growth by noting that the G.N.P. covers the whole quarter. ''My guess is, if you had monthly G.N.P. figures, they would have been worst at the end of the third quarter, the beginning of the fourth quarters,'' she said. ''As the quarter progressed, it got better.''
 
Presenting the Budget
President Bush is preparing to send Congress a $1.2 trillion budget proposal that would dramatically cut the Federal deficit, to about half its level in the current fiscal year. The idea is to cut military spending, hope for higher tax revenues from a prosperous economy and use the growing Social Security surplus to reduce the debt.
 
A Question of Conflict
Federal regulators said Friday they would file an administrative action against President Bush's son Neil, charging him with conflicts of interest while he was a director of the Silverado Banking, Savings and Loan Association in Denver.
 
COMPANIES
 
Earnings, More or Less
Of all companies, Merrill Lynch should know enough not to disappoint the analysts. But last Monday came a surprisingly large $470 million charge against earnings for consolidating offices, pruning operations and laying off as many as 3,200 employees. The quarterly loss was $361.8 million. For the full year, Merrill lost $213.4 million, in conrast with income of $463.2 million in 1988. William A. Schreyer, Merrill's cheif executive, said the company had made ''the right strtegic decisions.'' Merrill estimates the savings at about $100 million a year. Analysts douted the savings were large enough to justify the charge, which is the largest in the company's history. Moody's responded by cutting several of Merrill's debt raitngs and investors reacted by pushig the stock to new 52-week lows.
* Elsewhere on Wall Street, merchant banking profits helped raise Morgan Stanley Group Inc.'s quarterly earnings 37.2 percent to $148.6 million. Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. earned only $3.5 million, better than the $13.5 million loss in the fourth quarter a year ago. Shearson's parent, American Express, gained 11.3 percent to $257.2 million.
 
Accounting's Ups and Downs
The oil companies have evidently found new leaders for their fight against pollution: their accountants. In the last quarter of 1989, pollution control and cleanup costs were blamed in Chevron's $833 million loss and Exxon's 43.1 percent earnings decline to $785 million. Phillips Petroleum lost $255 million, also for reasons having to do with pollution. Mobil cited higher crude oil costs for causing a 3.2 percent decline in quarterly profits, to $447 million.
 
Income by the Area Code
 
Phone company earnings rose or fell depending on regional economic health and one-time charges. Nynex lost $43.7 million in the fourth quarter, after a $325 million charge for strike costs, an early retirement program and the write-down of some assets. Regulatory changes and price cuts helped A.T.&T. earn $705 million, after a loss last year. BellSouth gained 11.9 percent to $469 million and U S West, 26.8 percent to $344.4 million. Bell Atlantic's quarterly income fell 80.9 percent to $57.9 million and Southwestern Bell's fell 2.7 percent to $297.2 million.
* Eastern Airlines proposed a reorganization plan that would give unsecured creditors less than 50 cents on the dollar, according to people who have seen the plan. The plan to take the airline out of bankruptcy proceedings was presented to the unsecured credits committee Thursday. Executives of Texas Air, which owns Eastern, have said in the past that all creditors would be paid in full.
 
Samurai Spaghetti, and Sayonara
 
Mamma-san Leone? Restaurant Associates, the operating and consulting group that turned eating into entertainment, has been sold to the Kyotaru Company of Japan. The new owners plan to bring New York theater-district Italian and other dining concepts back to Japan.
* W. Michael Blumenthal said Friday that he will step down as chief executive of the Unisys Corporation to join Lazard Freres & Company. Blumenthal, a former Treasury Secretary, leaves behind a company that lost $639.3 billion in 1989.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Japan's European Move
As Japan moves more money into Europe, American markets are bound to suffer. ''That's becoming a burning issue for the financial markets in 1999,'' said William V. Sullivan Jr., director of money market research at Dean Witter Reynolds. Japanese money managers say they find West German stocks especially attractive since Germany can benefit from the region's economic unification and the opening of Eastern Europe. And real returns on West German bonds surpass those on U.S. Treasuries.
 
Lunar Lite in Japan
First, economy cars. Now, the economy moonshot. An unmanned Japanese rocket cheapskated into space Wednesday with a $41 million budget and heavy corporate backing. ''The space equivalent of a compact Toyota,'' one official said. And just as their auto makers have expanded into luxury cars, the Japanese aerospace industry is working on space shuttles and missions to Venus and Mars.
 
The Clamor Abroad Hits Home
American computers, telecommunications equipment and machine tools could soon begin flowing to Eastern Europe. The Bush Administrations announced plans last week to relax export curbs, as American businesses and West European allies had urged. But the restrictions will remain on technology transfers to the Soviet Union.
* The United States Ambassador to Hungary, R. Mark Palmer, said last Thursday he will resign to manage a new investment firm in Eastern Europe. Who can blame him, with Albert Reichmann and Ronald S. Lauder for partners? First purchase: half a Hungarian bank, for $10 million. ''The gold rush is on in Hungary,'' Mr. Palmer said. He also plans to target Czechoslavakia.
* Oil users around the world are likely to pay the costs of the conflict in Azerbaijan. Ethnic strife has disrupted production of oil industry equipment in the Soviet Union, the world's largest oil producer.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Dow Jones industrial average daily close, June, 1989-Jan. 1990; Weekly interest rate on 30-yer bonds, June 1989-Jan. 1990; graph of quarterly change in G.N.P., 1986-1989; percent change in employment costs for private industry, 1985-1989 (Source: Commerce Dept.); fourth-quarter earnings for Exxon, Chevron, Mobil and Phillips, 1988 and 1989 (Source: Company reports); Photo: Japanese rocket launch (AP); Map: Soviet Union indicating Azerbaijan (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BONDS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); SAVINGS & LOANS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); CONTRACT AWARDS (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (56%); BANK FAILURES (53%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



654 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
How Long for German Funds?

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
''Being a Scotsman, it goes against the grain to spend $1.50 to buy a $1,'' said Gavin Dobson, president of Murray Johnstone International, a Chicago money manger. He was explaining why he did not buy into the New Germany Fund Inc., which was launched last week. Plenty of other people did buy. The German stock market has fallen 4 percent since it hit a record high on Jan. 3, propelled downward partly by jitters over the outlook for the economic development of Eastern Europe, which have replaced much of the euphoria of last fall. But the New Germany Fund opened at 21 7/8, more than 50 percent above the initial offering price minus underwriting fees. On Friday it traded even higher, closing at 24, which meant buyers were paying an even higher premium of 72 percent. Those who bought more than 19 million shares over the two days - 76 percent of the fund's 25 million shares - were paying $1.57 to $1.72 for $1 of equity. 
Adding to proof of the demand - some analysts say foolishness - the already existing Germany Fund also rose Thursday and Friday in much thinner trading, closing at $24.50. Investors who bought that fund were paying $2.03 for $1 invested, or a premium of 103 percent. Such premiums exist because the closed-end funds sell a fixed number of shares at the initial offering. This means that when the stock is traded it can be priced above or below - at a premium or a discount - to the underlying value of the fund.
There is no disagreement among the analysts who watch these and other single-country closed-end mutual funds that this bubble has to burst.
Thomas J. Herzfeld, president of Thomas J. Herzfeld Advisor Inc. in Miami, says that such funds historically have traded at a discount and that he does not expect the two German funds to sustain the premium. For the investor, this means the following: If the stocks the New Germany Fund invests in increase in value by 50 percent in the next year or two, the investors who scrambed to buy on Thursday and Friday could still make no profit. That is because the premium could fall if interest in the fund wanes, wiping out most or all of the gain in the underlying value of the fund. The greater the premium, the greater the risk.
So why is there so much demand? West Germany still looks to reap the chief benefit from economic development of Eastern Europe. And skilled salesmen are quick to convince investors that the funds appear to be the easiest way to get a slice of the German action. In addition, the newest fund said it will invest in East German equities when that is possible. And, the new fund, at a $1.72 for $1 on Friday was a better deal than the old fund at $2.03 for $1.
But people interested in Germany can get in the game at a much better price, sometimes even at a price that provides more than $1 in equity for a $1 investment.
For example, they can invest directly in the West German market simply by calling a stockbroker. But Adolphe J. Warner, the senior adviser to both Germany funds contends that the premium paid for the funds is worth it, because they give smaller investors access to the West German markets. Buying stock directly in West Germany, he said, is likely to require as much as $60,000 to get a variety of stocks at the average price of regular-sized purchases. In addition, he said the premium also accounts for the expertise of the funds' management in picking the right German stocks now and those in East Germany in the future.
But another approach that would produce some German exposure, along with stocks in other markets around the world, would be to invest in global closed-end funds. Many of these are selling at a discount, which makes them cheaper and much less risky than the Germany funds.
The Clemente Fund Global Growth Fund has stocks from Germany, the rest of Europe, Japan, Indonesia and other Asian countries. It closed on Friday at 9 3/4, which is about a 14 percent discount to the value of the stocks it owns. The Worldwide Value Fund, Inc. has a large position in Siemens, the large German electronics manufacturer, as well as investments in Great Britain, the United States and Italy. It closed Friday at 17 7/8, a discount of about 12.9 percent of the value of its stocks.
Of course, buying into such funds provides less intense an exposure to Germany and, presumably, to East Germany in the future. But the global funds carry far less risk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GF (NYSE) (77%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: THOMAS J HERZFELD ADVISORS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW GERMANY FUND INC; GERMANY FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MUTUAL FUNDS ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); STOCK OFFERINGS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); BONDS (69%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



655 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
Will Perestroika Cost Us More at the Pump?

BYLINE: By ARNOLD NADLER; Arnold Nadler is an energy consultant in Salem, Mass.

 BODY:
Pumping 12 million barrels a day out of a global total of 63 million, the Soviet Union is the world's largest petroleum producer. It is also No. 1 in natural gas. Should economic and political disarray hinder Soviet energy production, the ripples would reach from Houston to the Persian Gulf. 
The Soviets export about four million barrels of oil a day, second only to Saudi Arabia. Roughly half of Soviet oil exports go to Western Europe, generating about $10 billion a year, more hard currency than from any other export. The other half goes to Eastern Europe and other allies.
Even before the heightened violence in Azerbaijan, Soviet petroleum production in the six months ending in September 1989 was down 3.6 percent from the comparable period in 1988. By the end of 1989, oil and gas exports to the West had fallen sharply. Although the production decline is not quite 1 percent of world output, during previous price surges each 1 percent cut in oil supplies has raised prices about 10 percent.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries can thank the Soviet Union's lower production for helping to keep prices up. Prices plunged in 1988 when OPEC output reached 23 million barrels a day, but today, with OPEC production just as high, prices have recovered and stabilized.
Soviet oil output is hobbled by worker slowdowns, shoddy equipment, high production costs and environmental pressures. As Petroleum Economist, a British publication, quotes First Deputy Minister Vladimir Filanovsky: ''It's sickening to see the once flourishing oil sector fall apart.''
Because the district of the Azerbaijan capital, Baku, is a major manufacturing center for oilfield equipment, the fighting threatens petroleum output nationally. During unrest a year ago, strikes and transportation tie-ups blocked shipments of oilfield equipment. Azerbaijani oil production of about 270,000 barrels a day is concentrated offshore, in the Caspian Sea. Last May, fires on three offshore platforms burned for almost three weeks.
To modernize its energy industry, the Soviet Union is showing interest in joint ventures with foreign partners. For the United States, joint ventures could raise prickly policy questions about technology transfers: Will a stronger Soviet oil and gas industry help stabilize energy markets? Might the Soviet Union join with OPEC to create a more powerful cartel?
The Soviet Union is also the world's second-largest oil user, accounting for 14 percent of world consumption. Artificially low domestic fuel prices lead to substantial waste. Raising prices at home would free more oil for export, but the political risks impede such a move.
If perestroika increases Soviet auto ownership, domestic energy demand could rise sharply. Reaching rates of auto ownership equal to Spain's would add 60 million cars to Soviet roads - enough to lift world petroleum consumption about 3 percent. More cars are probably coming: Fiat has signed a joint venture to build a $1.4 billion factory southeast of Moscow to produce 300,000 cars a year. As the Soviet Union revamps its economy, its impact on the world's energy markets could be greater than ever.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); 

COUNTRY: AZERBAIJAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GULF STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (56%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; GAS (FUEL); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); CARTELS (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); JOINT VENTURES (85%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); POLITICS (72%); CURRENCIES (70%); TRENDS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (64%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (60%); 

PERSON: NADLER, ARNOLD



656 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: The Coming Rebound - and Risk - in Municipal Bonds

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. HYLTON

 BODY:
Four years after changes in the tax code knocked the wind out of municipal bonds, the market appears poised for a big turnaround. For Wall Street, scrambling more than ever for new sources of income, a jump in market volume can't come soon enough. For investors and issuers, however, the expected surge in activity may be fraught with risks.
Fueling the market revival of the 1990's is the continuing deterioration of the nation's bridges, tunnels and roads and the growing need of state and city governments to issue new bonds to finance billions of dollars in repairs.
But issuers will have to offer higher rates of interest to attract investors now, in part because the demand for municipal bonds was so sharply curtailed by the 1986 tax changes. And because taxpayers are increasingly loath to approve general obligation bonds, which are backed by the issuer's full taxing authority, more and more so-called revenue bonds will be used. These are supported only by the revenues produced by the very structures being financed or, in some cases, by nothing more substantial than the promise of revenues from the development of raw land. 
Those factors are already leading to warnings that defaults will climb as some issuers and investment bankers push at the edges of public finance with questionable deals.
''Issuers in the 1990's will generally be forced to do more financings that are riskier in nature,'' said James F. Lynch, editor of the New York-based Lynch's Municipal Bond Advisory, ''and investment bankers will generally be willing to accommodate them.''
Added Ralph Horn, executive vice president of the First Tennessee Bank and vice chairman of the Public Securities Association, an industry trade group based in New York: ''The danger is that the more innovative you get and the more removed you get from good solid tax coverage on a deal, as is the case with some revenue bonds, the more the credit risk goes up.''
Whatever the risks, Wall Street, at least, is raring to go, still smarting from the effects of the Tax Reform Act of 1986.
The Government used that legislation to limit the catagories of investors who could claim an exemption from paying Federal taxes on municipal bond interest. Left out in the cold were property and casualty insurers and commercial banks, the two biggest groups of bond buyers. While mutual funds and individuals were not affected, demand was sharply reduced. The volume of new municipal issues fell to $120.5 billion last year, from $205.3 billion in 1985.
For Wall Street, the contraction was a disaster. Public finance departments, like most departments in the large investment houses, had boomed during the early 1980's. With the sudden decline in new issues, these departments had scores of investment bankers and support staff with little to do.
At first, most firms delayed cutting staff and the competition for the remaining business forced commissions down drastically. The biggest indication of how unprofitable things had become was the decision by Salomon Brothers Inc., then the No. 1 underwriter in the business, to pull out of municipal finance altogether in 1987.
Since then, other firms have cut back hard on municipal finance but there are still too many bankers chasing too few deals. Now, some firms say much of that will change as state and local governments confront their worsening infrastructure problems.
The firms are counting on substantial growth in the volume of new issues and fatter underwriting commissions. In addition, they are also expecting an increase in the number of complicated deals, a source of lucrative fees for the investment bankers who put the deals together.
''On the supply side, I think we're talking about as much as $140 billion in volume in 1990,'' said Robert N. Downey, the partner in charge of public finance at Goldman, Sachs & Company. In 1989, the firm underwrote $13.7 billion in deals in which it served as lead manager, the most of any investment bank, according to Investment Dealers' Digest.
''I don't think anyone will say that Washington is going to finance public works the way they used to,'' Mr. Downey said, ''so municipal bonds will have to be the source to rebuild the infrastructure.''
The states and cities are now spending about $45 billion to $50 billion annually on capital improvements on the infrastructure, according to Joseph M. Giglio, senior vice president of Chase Securities. ''By the year 2000, the total amount of spending on capital improvement should increase to about $95 billion to $100 billion,'' he said.
The underwriters should get a separate boost by the middle of the 1990's, Mr. Downey said. That is when many outstanding municipal bonds will be called. A call provision allows the issuer to retire a bond before maturity. Issuers often want to do this because interest rates in general have fallen below the rate that the bond is paying. The calls reduce the number of tax-exempt bonds outstanding and increase the market's appetite for new issues.
''By the middle of the decade we are going to see a quarter of the $700 billion in municipals paid off,'' Mr. Downey said.
But he acknowledges that the market will see some new and questionable financing techniques by then as well.
''It used to be plain vanilla in the 1970's, but the 1980's saw all kinds of new creatures and that should continue in the 1990's,'' Mr. Downey said. ''Investors should be very careful, for in many cases they are not rewarded enough for shaky credit.''
The problem is finding a revenue stream to pay for all the rebuilding, said Austin Koenen, managing director in charge of municipal finance at Morgan Stanley & Company and chairman of the Public Securities Association.
Political pressures against raising taxes to service general obligation bonds are forcing municipal issuers ''to think about how they can create new structures that will shift more of the risk over to the buyer,'' Mr. Koenen said.
''In California, we used to pay for facilities like sewers and roads through general obligation bonds,'' said Paul Rosenstiel, a managing director in the First Boston Corporation's California public finance department. ''Now what you are seeing is financing mechanisms that rely on assessment of land that has yet to be developed.''
Those mechanisms can get particularly dicey when they are used by the many small but growing municipalities, mostly in the West, that have modest revenue bases but a big need to raise money to finance further expansion. Issuers like these sometimes offer bonds that are backed by raw land and projections of further growth.
Putting together bond offerings of this sort earns higher fees for investment bankers, said Carl M. Eifler, a managing director in public finance at First Boston. But he adds, ''If in the 1990's we are going to have a lot of financing requirements and less revenues to do it with, we are going to push everything to the edge. That will also mean some things will be pushed over the edge.''
Indeed, although the rate of defaults on municipal issues has remained constant for several years at about 1 percent of net new bond issues, many people in the business expect it to accelerate among revenue bonds, said Richard Lehmann, president of the Bond Investors Association, a trade group based in Miami Lakes, Fla.
Mr. Lynch, editor of the Municipal Bond Advisory, is among those who note that many investment bankers came into the municipal bond business in its heyday just before 1986 and that some lack the experience to handle the sophisticated new financings. That means that some deals could go forward that shouldn't.
''A lot of the younger people were not adequately trained and as a result they don't see those yellow lights that would indicate to someone who is more experienced that you should step back and do more homework on a deal,'' Mr. Lynch said. ''I imagine we're going to have some of these deals put together by these people blow up in the 90's. There could be some real surprises.''
 
DO MUTUAL FUNDS REALLY SERVE AS A SAFETY NET?
Managers of tax-exempt mutual funds like to argue that they are the best safeguard against buying into a shaky municipal issue. As professional investors, they say, they have the know-how and resources to screen new bond issues.
Of course, some of that is true. Most individuals who buy municipals don't have cadres of analysts reviewing prospective purchases and most municipal bonds that end in a default are too small to interest the funds so they are sold directly to individuals.
But as the funds scramble for retail customers by offering higher yields and by creating new tax-exempt vehicles, they face strong temptations to lower their standards, some experts say. ''I very definitely disagree with anyone who says that these funds will not take on lower-level merchandise,'' said James F. Lynch, editor of Lynch's Municipal Bond Advisory. ''If you take a look at a lot of what they've bought over the past few years, you'll find that in low-volume times they'll reach for lower-grade merchandise to put in their portfolios.''
On the other hand, Richard J. Franke, president and chief executive of John Nuveen & Company, which runs some of the largest tax-exempt mutual funds in the country, says that the volume of risky issues that might wind up in a typical fund's portfolio is insignificant. ''They're not going to pass the scrutiny of the professional investor,'' Mr. Franke said.
Still, critics continue to voice warnings, contending that professional judgments sometimes give way to bottom-line pressures.
Too often, these critics say, fund managers are inclined to take risks in the hope of raising payouts. Given their huge portfolios, the managers may feel confident that the risks can be easily contained.
''The worrisome thing about the funds is that everything is hunky-dory as long as the fund managers have money coming in,'' said John Peterson, senior director of the Government Finance Research Center of the Government Finance Officers Association, a Washington-based group of state and local finance officials.

GRAPHIC: Photos: 'In many cases investors aren't rewarded enough for shaky credit,' Robert N. Downey, Goldman, Sachs (NYT/Jack Manning); 'New structures will shift more of the risk over to the buyer, ' Austin Koenen, Morgan Stanley (NYT/Michael V. Agins); 'Issuers will be forced to do more financings that are riskier.' James F. Lynch, Municipal Bond Advisory (Brian Haviland); graphs: total volume of new long-term municipal bond issues, 1980-1989 (Source: The Bond Buyer); average gross underwriting for new issues of municipal bonds, 1982-1989 (Source: Public securities Assoc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FIRST TENNESSEE BANK NA (53%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (59%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (59%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST (MONEY); DEFAULTING BONDS (92%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INSURANCE (73%); CITIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (67%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D ROBERT N DOWNEY (69%); JAMES F LYNCH (57%); 



657 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: All About/Cellular Telephones;
A Gadget That May Soon Become the Latest Necessity

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
Once gadgets of the rich and powerful, cellular telephones are moving into the mainstream. Still primarily business tools, the phones are increasingly showing up in the cars, handbags and pockets of the elderly, housewives, outdoor enthusiasts and others who need instant communications.
Consumers are signing up for cellular service in record numbers, attracted by declining equipment costs and new portable phones small enough to fit into shirt pockets. Some industry analysts predict that portable telephones (which, unlike mobile phones, can be carried outside cars) will become as common, by the next decade, as videocassette recorders and microwave ovens. ''We are looking at the dawn of an explosion in cellular telephone usage that will lead to stiff competition and better, more innovative products and services for consumers,'' said Steve Sazegari, an analyst with the Dataquest market research firm of San Jose, Calif.
With demand for cellular service increasing rapidly, equipment makers and service providers are scrambling to capture a larger share of the market. Service providers are offering discounts, and the cellular carriers are installing digital equipment to serve the deluge of new subscribers. 
Equipment manufacturers have reduced the average price of a car, or mobile, phone to about $400 including installation, from about $2,000 six years ago. They are battling to produce phones that are smaller, more powerful and safer to operate while driving. Sales from cellular service are expected to top $4.4 billion this year, up from an estimated $3.3 billion in 1989. Equipment sales, $620 million in 1989, should reach $655 million in 1990.
The United States had more than 2.7 million cellular subscribers - mainly doctors, lawyers, executives and other professionals - in June 1989, according to the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association. In 1988, subscribers increased 67 percent, to 2.06 million.
Still, the price of cellular service will have to drop substantially before there is a phone in every car or pocket. A typical cellular customer now pays about $100 a month. Cellular carriers recently introduced discount plans that allow heavy users to pay a high monthly charge of $35 to $50 and low usage rates of about 30 cents to 40 cents per minute. Low-volume users can pay a low monthly charge, about $10 to $15, and high rates of about 60 cents to 90 cents.
 
EWQUIPMENT
 
Motorola Leads in Miniaturization
 Since the first cellular telephones were introduced six years ago, manufacturers have sought to emulate the tiny shoe phone used by secret agent Maxwell Smart in the 1960's television series ''Get Smart.'' The latest phones are small enough to be slipped into a shirt pocket or purse, if not in side a shoe.
Out front in the race to miniaturize is Motorola Inc. Last year, Motorola introduced Microtac, a hand-held phone the size of a wallet or checkbook with the same performance as larger mobile phones. At 12.3 ounces and 13.5 cubic inches, the Microtac is the smallest, lightest portable phone on the market. Performance carries a price: currently, $3,000 for Microtac, but less for a no-frills version to be introduced in February.
Motorola, the electronics giant in Schaumburg, Ill., said that its researchers spent five years reducing the size and weight of the phone's components - in particular, the oscillator and the duplexer, which allow a caller to talk and listen at the same time.
Herschel Shosteck, whose Herschel Shosteck Associates Ltd. is a cellular telephone economics firm, called the Microtac ''a technological and administrative tour de force'' because of the teamwork between Motorola's engineering, design, manufacturing, and marketing divisions. ''I expect no other manufacturer to duplicate the size and weight of the Microtac within the next three to four years,'' said Mr. Shosteck.
Analysts said that Motorola has remained the leading manufacturer of cellular phones in the United States despite strong competition from the Japanese and other foreign producers. Motorola invests heavily in research and development and advanced manufacturing processes. The company announced plans last year for a $50 million research facility near Chicago to develop cellular technology. ''This is an industry where we will never be able to let down our guard because competitors are always right behind you charging full speed ahead,'' said James Cail, director of marketing for Motorola's cellular group.
Analysts estimate that North American manufacturers, which also include General Electric and Novatel, control about 30 percent to 40 percent of the United States market - more than for most consumer electronics products. Foreign producers include NEC, Hitachi, Mitsubishi, Oki, Uniden and Toshiba.
Novatel Communications Ltd., a cellular phone maker based in Calgary, Alberta, is the leading cellular supplier in Canada and a growing presence in the United States. The privately held firm doubled its sales in 1989 to about $300 million with the success of such products as Action Pac 4, a portable phone in a case. It can be moved from one vehicle to another, drawing its power from dashboardcigarette lighters.
Del Lippert, Novatel's president and chief executive, said that the company might integrate other devices like answering machines and clockradios into cellular telephones. He expects the phones to become a mass market product towards the end of the decade as more consumers use them for emergencies like keeping in touch when their cars break down in areas far from any other phones.
To improve cellular safety, most manufacturers have introduced models with voice-commanded automatic dialing, speakers and microphones that allow the driver to keep both hands on the wheel while talking.
 
SERVICE PROVIDERS
 
At Times, Capacity Is Overwhelmed
 To meet the explosive demand for cellular service, carriers are converting their networks to digital technology that will provide three times the capacity of current analog systems at lower cost.
The most dramatic growth in cellular subscribers is in metropolitan areas with large, car-bound populations. Carriers are quickly reaching capacity.
In some areas, including Los Angeles, customers dialing during rush hour often get responses only from the ''system not available'' lights on their phones. The networks in the New York City, Chicago, San Francisco and Washington D.C. areas are also near their limits.
The new digital equipment converts calls into the computer language of simple 0's and 1's, which can be transmitted with less distortion than the more complex radio signals for analog equipment.
The first digital networks, expected to go into operation in 1993, will offer cellular customers clearer calls and a wide variety of new services, like facsimile transmissions, error-free data transmissions and access to data bases. Because the new networks can transmit their simpler signals with less power, they are expected to lower the cost of cellular service perhaps 30 percent to 40 percent.
Current cellular telephones are not compatible with the new digital systems, but carriers said that they plan to operate both analog and digital systems until all their customers have switched to digital.
 
FUTURE NETWORKS
 
 Digital Systems Will Require New Phones
 New, digital systems will require new phones. Manufacturers plan to introduce dual-mode cellular phones, usable on both systems, for about $1,400 late next year, compared with $800 for portable analog phones. Industry executives said analog phones will not become obsolete.
The incentive for consumers to trade in their analog equipment for dual-mode phones is that they will be more likely to find lines available during peak calling periods.
While most of the major cellular phone companies are not profitable, they are among the most sought-after stocks on Wall Street because of the anticipated growth in subscribers.
Those with the most subscribers - no precise figures are available - are the Pactel Corporation, a division of Pacific Telesis Group; McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. and Bell South's Southwestern Bell cellular unit.
 
BEAM ME UP, SCOTTY
To cash in on the growing popularity of cellular telephones, several companies are planning to offer a new type of wireless phone network that will compete with existing cellular service in the United States and overseas.
The new systems, known as personal communications networks, would allow residential and business customers to make and receive calls on lightweight wallet-sized phones that will look like the communicators used on ''Star Trek.'' The networks would operate at a higher radio frequency than cellular phones, and so have a shorter range but lower costs.
The British Government recently awarded licenses for building three personal communications networks to international consortia that include Pacific Telesis Group, U S West Inc., Cable and Wireless P.L.C. and Millicom Inc. In Britain, the personal communications devices are expected to cost $200 to $300.
Millicom, based in New York, has asked the Federal Communications Commission to set aside a portion of the radio spectrum allocated to cellular so that the new service can be offered in the United States. Major cellular companies oppose the service, saying it will harm their signals. Millicom says the companies are merely afraid of competition. If the F.C.C. approves, company executives say, a system could be operating by 1993.
Whether personal communication's prospects are as bright in the United States as in Britain will depend on whether cellular customers are satisfied. Herschel Shosteck, an industry analyst, said that cellular service in the United States is so widely available and high in quality that a competing service stands little chance. ''The cellular situation in Britain is vastly different from that in the United States,'' he said. ''Britain's cellular is undeveloped, second-rate and in need of competition.'' Shelby Bryant, Millicom's president, disagrees, saying that Britain's cellular system is strong and that personal communications is an attractive alternative in either country. In the United States, he said, ''it will cost less than half the price and accommodate much more capacity and offer a variety of intelligent services.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Five years of research on miniaturization went into the development of Motorola's Microtac, which is about the size of a checkbook; One of Novatel's phones draws its power from a car's cigarette lighter. The Canadian company is a growing presence in the U.S. market; graphs: celluar phone sales, 1984-1989 (Source: Electronic Industries Assoc); subscribers ot celluar service, Dec. 1984-June 1989 (Source: Celluar Telephone Industry Assoc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (81%); ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (59%); ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (59%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; CELLULAR RADIO MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN



658 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
Coming to Terms on Health Care

BYLINE: By STUART M. BUTLER; Stuart M. Butler is director of domestic and economic policy studies at the Heritage Foundation.

 BODY:
Unlike the great industrial wars of America's past, the recent strikes against the Pittston Company and the Nynex Corporation were not over wages or even work conditions, but over health benefits. Such disputes are becoming commonplace. Union officials view health insurance as a basic necessity. As one of the Nynex strikers' picket signs put it, ''Cutting Our Health Benefits Is Sick.''
Yet employers say they can't afford the increasing cost of health care. Health benefits are already reducing corporate profits by a fourth, according to a report by the National Association of Manufacturers. And this year, American companies will spend an average of $2,745 per worker on health care, up 16.5 percent from 1988 and more than three times the general rate of inflation. Next year, medical insurance is expected to climb an additional 25 percent. 
But the solutions put forth by business and labor are shortsighted. Employers fear they could provoke a strike if they force workers to economize on health-care services by cutting benefits or by making them bear more of the cost. So instead, many executives, in an about-face, are lobbying for the Government to assume the burden by creating a national health service, modeled after Canada's, that is financed by taxes. The Canadian system, however, is no utopia. With the heavy demand for ''free'' care, and the supply of such care limited by budget restraints, shortages and rationing of health care occur.
Fortunately there is a way out of the problem - a solution that would benefit both industry and labor by controlling health-care costs while assuring that all Americans can afford to get sick.
Under a proposal recently put forward in a monograph, which I co-edited, at the Heritage Foundation, company-provided health benefits would no longer be treated as tax-free income by employees. Employer-paid premiums would be considered taxable income on each worker's individual income-tax form.
That would encourage the head of every household to buy his or her own health insurance. As a further incentive, the employee would get a tax credit to offset the cost of purchasing such insurance. At a minimum, under our plan, the insurance policy would have to cover so-called catastrophic expenses. The credit would be adjusted to take into consideration such factors as family size and medical history, so all families - with tax help - could afford decent coverage. Under our plan, which did not estimate costs, families would be required by law to purchase at least basic coverage. Unemployed workers would receive higher tax credits, because of their reduced incomes, and people on welfare would continue to be covered by Medicaid. Changing the tax code this way would have advantages for employers and employees.
First, employees would no longer be locked into a plan that does not meet their needs. For example, a 55-year-old widow probably does not need maternity benefits, but may want better optical coverage. Consider also the case of a financially strapped company that needs to cut back on benefits. Workers could opt out of the plan, buy their own insurance, and get the same tax credits as under the company plan. Opting out today means losing those benefits. Second, under the new system, all workers and their families would have equal access to health-care coverage, regardless of their place of employment. The tax code would treat the self-employed plumbing contractor or graphic artist the same as employees of small mom-and-pop businesses and Fortune 500 companies.
Third, workers would have an incentive to shop wisely for health benefits, since they would be paying for them. Workers would have more incentive to shop around for the plan best suited to their circumstances and insurers, pressured by a consumer-oriented market, would have to offer the most possible benefits at the least possible price or lose the business.
The Treasury Department subsidizes employer-provided benefits that are limited only by a company's ability to pay - or its unions' ability to make it pay. This encourages the healthy and wealthy to demand excessive insurance, while leaving millions of others with no protection at all. Under our proposal, special tax assistance would be targeted to those needing help the most: those with a large family or a chronic medical condition, for example. Unions and employers battling over health benefits does nobody any good. Instead of finger-pointing, both sides need to recognize that the root cause of their dispute is the tax system, which pits workers against managers, and rewards health-cost inflation while denying help to millions of Americans who need it.
The way to cure these problems is to change the system to one based on consumer choice within a competitive health-care market.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sturat M. Butler (NYT/Mike Theiler); drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BCO (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (91%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (91%); SIC7382 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); 

COMPANY: NYNEX CORP (91%); BRINK'S CO (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FRINGE BENEFITS; HEALTH INSURANCE; LABOR; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; TAX CREDITS TAXES & TAXATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); FAMILY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (87%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STRIKES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); MEDICAID (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); HEALTH CARE RATIONING (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); 

PERSON: BUTLER, STUART M



659 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
Justice in Anti-Dumping

BYLINE: By JAMES BOVARD; James Bovard, the author of ''The Farm Fiasco,'' is working on a book on ''The Myth of Fair Trade.''

 BODY:
While American politicians lecture the world on fair trade, our dumping laws are an inquisitorial nightmare for foreign companies, making a mockery of due process and justice at every turn. In the last 17 years, Congress and the Commerce Department have repeatedly expanded the definition of dumping. Between 1980 and 1986, the Commerce Department found only 6 percent of all imports it investigated not guilty of unfair trade practices.
Dumping occurs when a company charges a lower price for a product in an export market than in its home market. But anti-dumping laws are a relic of the days of fixed exchange rates. The Commerce Department will convict a foreign company for a price difference as small as one-half of 1 percent between its American and its foreign prices - yet the dollar routinely fluctuates 10 or 15 percent in value a year. Although Commerce Department officials treat dumping as a self-evident crime, it is often solely the result of fluctuating currency exchange rates that may be totally unrelated to trade trends. 
The Commerce Department allows itself great latitude in how it administers the dumping law. In 1984, an Italian company was convicted of a dumping margin of 1.16 percent on its exports of pads for woodwind instruments. The Commerce Department deduced the 1.16 percent by comparing the prices of a smaller woodwind pad sold in the United States with a larger woodwind pad sold in Italy. Since the smaller pad sold for a lower price than the larger pad, Commerce Department found the Italian company guilty.
Even if a company sells its products in the United States for exactly the same prices as in its home market, the Commerce Department can nail the company for dumping. How? It compares the average foreign price over a six-month period with individual American sale prices. Naturally, product prices vary over time and in different locales. If any of a company's American prices fall below the average foreign price, Commerce can slap a duty on all its imports.
In the 1980's, the Commerce Department has increasingly relied on cost-of-production proofs to prove that foreign companies are dumping their products in the United States at below the alleged cost of production. But, Commerce Department cost analyses are straight out of ''Alice in Wonderland.'' American trade law requires that the Commerce Department always assume a foreign company makes an 8 percent profit. If a foreign company shows a profit of 7 percent, then the Commerce Department convicts the company for selling at a loss of 1 percent.
Once a company is convicted of dumping, the Commerce Department can effectively keep the company under economic house arrest for the next 15 years. While Australian and Canadian dumping laws have sunset provisions that automatically end the protection provided by dumping duties after five years, the Commerce Department has succumbed to domestic political pressure to perpetuate dumping orders long after the alleged dumping has ended.
To be hit by a dumping order can easily cripple a foreign company, especially since the Commerce Department can inflate the dumping margin in an annual review. In August 1989, the Department announced that a Japanese ball-bearing company must pay duties of 67 percent - for bearings it exported between 1974 and 1979.
Commerce is judge, jury, prosecuting attorney, and executioner, as Washington trade lawyer David Palmeter told this author. The Commerce Department can demand practically an infinite amount of information - and any refusal to comply is taken as a confession of guilt, after which it imposes the highest possible dumping margins. The Commerce Department collects vast amounts of confidential information from foreign businesses and has frequently allowed this information to fall into the hands of American competitors.
While other nations are calling for a General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade agreement to trim or gut dumping laws, the American Government is almost alone in advocating making dumping laws more punitive and protectionist. Yet, outside the United States, American companies get hit by dumping penalties more than any other nation's companies. The more oppressive our dumping laws become, the more likely that it is that foreign nations will copy our laws and clobber American exporters.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Bovard (NYT/Marty Katz); drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DUMPING (TRADE TERM) COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (92%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (91%); DUE PROCESS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); TRENDS (76%); HOUSE ARREST (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (75%); ARRESTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (70%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: BOVARD, JAMES



660 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Currency;
Finally, Some Muscle for the Yen

 BODY:
The Japanese yen, which has been chronically weak against the dollar, finally found some muscle last week. Betting that the Japanese would raise interest rates after the Parliamentary election on Feb. 18, traders bought yen aggressively last week for the first time in months. By the end of the week, the dollar had fallen to 142.85 yen, down from 146.00. At the same time, the Canadian dollar continued to fall sharply against the American dollar as interest rates in Canada appeared to be headed even lower. Since the Bank of Canada signaled in mid-January that it would allow interest rates to fall, investors have been dumping their Canadian dollars. Two weeks ago, the Canadian dollar was worth 86.3 cents. Now it is down to 83.6 cents.

 	 	 	 	Last	Previous	Year	 	Week	Week	Ago	 	 	 	 	 	Gold	$420.00	$410.00	$402.00	Republic National Bank	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Japanese Yen	145.85	146.00	128.20	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	W.German Mark	1.7102	1.6876	1.8660	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Canadian Dollar	1.1960	1.1837	1.1840	per U.S. Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	British Pound	1.6455	1.6605	1.7690	U.S. Dollar per British Pound	 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (56%); HSB (PAR) (56%); HBC (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (51%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (56%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); BRITISH POUND (70%); 



661 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Helsinki II, Road Map for Revolution

SERIES: Designs for Europe: An Occasional Series

BYLINE: By Joseph R. Biden; Joseph R. Biden, Democrat of Delaware, is chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on European Affairs.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Eastern Europe's rush to freedom has inspired hope for a trans-European partnership. The superpowers concur that Europe's ''common house'' should extend from Moscow to Washington. But mixed with optimism is fear of a backslide, as democracy and free markets struggle to take root.
In search of ''architecture'' to buttress a new order, the Bush Administration has stressed existing structures:
NATO, the Common Market and the Helsinki Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. 
Yet, in their tepid response to the Gorbachev proposal for another Helsinki summit meeting, American policymakers seem hesitant to place much faith in a mechanism they regard as unfamiliar and unwieldy.
This is shortsighted. We must capitalize on the key institution spanning the East-West divide. In 1975, the first Helsinki meeting committed the NATO and Warsaw Pact nations, as well as 12 European neutrals, to continuing talks on three tracks: military, economic and political. This diplomacy has worked. Indeed, its promotion of human rights layed the groundwork for the revolution of 1989.
Now, the 35-nation format can achieve more. With energetic American engagement, a binding Helsinki II treaty could provide a needed blueprint for Europe's common house.
The military track is critical. The conventional-arms pact expected this year primarily will reduce Warsaw Pact forces. Helsinki II should promptly set a goal of further cuts: 50 percent or more on both sides.
The worry that deep cuts may undermine NATO's forward-defense strategy should diminish as the long-exaggerated specter of a Warsaw Pact invasion fades away. A real risk, however, is that, in the absence of a collective plan, the shedding of military burdens could produce a dangerous imbalance in forces. By contrast, negotiated reductions offer predictability, fairer burden-sharing and even lower force levels.
We must be clear on the differences between NATO, a voluntary collaboration, and the Warsaw Pact as an instrument of Soviet coercion. While negotiations will involve the two blocs, the treaty should not enshrine their status. Helsinki II could set a point for each nation to decide whether to join any alliance and whether to evict foreign troops. This mechanism could lock in the Soviet promise to withdraw from Eastern Europe and convert the Pact to a political role.
Verification in the common house means more than a guard against cheating. Extensive monitoring would institutionalize openness, engaging national militaries in an enterprise of systematic on-site and aerial (''open skies'') inspection. A common emphasis on each nation's rights and obligations would build confidence that any violation would be collectively opposed. This regime, replete with cooperation and information, would constitute a new European security system, resistant to rivalries long checked by cold war division.
Helsinki II should erect a framework for Western trade, investment and aid in Eastern Europe that will assure a rapid, successful transition to market-based economies. Such actions are the West's most cost-effective form of ''defense'' spending (this has eluded those who would aid Europe's new democracies meagerly, at the expense of U.S. allies elsewhere).
A treaty also could resolve concerns, aroused by Western Europe's economic integration in 1992, that the European Community may become a protectionist fortress. Helsinki II should commit all parties to extending the E.C.'s single market, East and West, throughout the common house - including the U.S.
Politically, the overriding question is German unification. Helsinki II should set an agenda that reassures both Germans and their neighbors, and accommodates the reality that the Germanys are the most densely militarized territory in history.
An agreed pause of, say, five years would enable East Germany to develop democracy, the two Germanys to expand interaction and the Helsinki participants to set military limits in Central Europe and reaffirm a unified Germany's eastern borders. Then, formal unification could proceed by popular referendum. This timetable would help forestall radicalism in East Germany and assuage concerns about instability.
Finally, a parliamentary institute should be founded in Berlin, where legislators from Helsinki member countries could profit from an exchange on democratic procedures and policy. A multinational network of ties among legislators would fortify the peace we hope to build.
A Helsinki II treaty could guide Europe's revolution. American diplomacy cannot be conceived in fear of this uncharted terrain, for only there can the common house be built.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed; Series

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); FINLAND (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO); WARSAW PACT (1955) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EUROPE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; HELSINKI CONFERENCE ON EUROPEAN SECURITY AND COOPERATION; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; SURVEYS AND SERIES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EVICTION (78%); COLD WAR (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ARMED FORCES (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (63%); 

PERSON: BIDEN, JOSEPH R JR (SEN); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S JOE BIDEN (56%); 



662 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Limit Capital Gains Tax Cut to New Issues;
Wiser Countries

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In response to recent editorials on the Bush Administration's proposal to reduce the capital gains tax (''A Poor Way to Save,'' Jan. 22, and ''Who's Demagoguing Capital Gains?'', Jan. 11):
How do you arrive at such economically unsound, divisive and just plain poor recommendations? Why do most of our trading partners-competitors have such high savings rates, two to three times ours?
By encouraging long-term investments with low to nonexistent capital gains taxes: Canada's rate is 17.5 percent; France's, 16 percent; Japan's, 5 percent, while West Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, South Korea and Taiwan leave capital gains tax-exempt. 
Your policies on capital gains are not competitive and would be damaging to our economy and to entrepreneurial activity. Certainly, reasonable forms of individual retirement accounts will be helpful, but 95 percent of long-term investments come from those in the high brackets.
Why don't you, I ask, approach this matter without demagogy and politics?
 
DON DOUGLASS
 San Antonio, Jan. 22, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (78%); TAIWAN (78%); GERMANY (73%); NETHERLANDS (68%); FRANCE (54%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) CAPITAL GAINS TAX (95%); TAX LAW (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INCOME TAX (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); 



663 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: Limit Capital Gains Tax Cut to New Issues

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Who's Demagoguing Capital Gains?'' (editorial, Jan. 11) exposes some of the fallacies in President Bush's insistence on the reduction in the capital gains tax. There is yet another major fallacy that you did not mention. 
Mr. Bush justifies his position by claiming that a reduction in the capital gains tax would create jobs and encourage economic growth. I would like Mr. Bush and his voodoo economists to explain how the purchase of stocks and bonds from someone who already owns them gives companies the funds needed to invest in new plants, new production equipment and research and development.
I can understand how money invested in the original public offering of stocks and bonds can give companies the money needed to do all the wonderful things that Mr. Bush claims for the reduction in the capital gains tax. If so, why shouldn't the reduction in the capital gains tax be limited to new issues of stocks and bonds? The same rationale applies to the purchase of new homes as against homes that are resold.
Limiting the reduction in capital gains taxes to the first purchase of new issues of stocks and bonds and of new homes would cause the reduction to apply to a very small fraction of all capital gains transactions, and thus it would counteract the enormous reduction in revenue that Mr. Bush's proposal will cause in the long run. It would also encourage the kind of investment that would truly invigorate the economy.
 
NORMAN H. PALTER
 Novato, Calif., Jan. 12, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; HOUSING; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) CAPITAL GAINS TAX (96%); TAX LAW (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BONDS (90%); INCOME TAX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); 

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (94%); 



664 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: To Save Social Security, Save

 BODY:
Washington Week is here: President Bush presents his new budget tomorrow; on Tuesday, he reports to Congress on the State of the Union. Yet even with these main events at hand, public debate remains preoccupied by a dazzling, poorly understood preliminary, the Moynihan plan.
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York says his recent proposal to cut the payroll tax would stop an unconscionable diversion of Social Security revenues. President Bush and other critics say the proposed tax cut would threaten future retirees. Both sides are dissembling. Cutting the payroll tax wouldn't help or hurt future retirees. Benefits are not tied to payroll taxes and need not be in the future. But tax cuts - of any kind - would drive up the Federal deficit and thereby divert money from the savings needed for private capital formation. What's really at stake is not the health of the Social Security system but the health of the whole economy. 
The baby boomers will start retiring around 2020. Though no longer working, they will be consuming - with the help of checks from the Social Security Administration. Will the economy be able to produce all the hamburgers and microwave ovens these retirees expect to buy?
That is the question that a Social Security reform commission, headed by Alan Greenspan, tried to answer in 1983. It recognized that future taxpayers would pay for future retirees no matter how Social Security was funded. But how much those taxes would hurt would depend on economic growth. If personal incomes are high, taxpayers won't mind paying the necessary taxes. If personal incomes are low, they'll shout.
For the economy to grow, the nation needs to invest in better machinery and in better educated workers. But such investments won't happen if escalating Federal deficits continue to divert private savings. So the Greenspan commission recommended a series of tax increases to lower the deficit, specifically, payroll tax hikes.
Things did not work out as planned. For starters, Congress passed the Gramm-Rudman law, which fixed annual targets for the deficit. That undid the commission's plan. Higher Social Security revenues allowed Congress to spend more elsewhere while staying within the fixed target. In this respect, Mr. Moynihan's accusation is just. Social Security revenues are not lowering the deficit; they are paying the Government's ordinary bills.
The Greenspan commission misled the public into a false sense of security. It described its proposed tax hikes as necessary to build up a trust fund from which future retirees would be paid. That was right in principle, but not in actual practice.
Most citizens assumed that the trust would take future taxpayers off the hook. But the trust accomplishes no such magic. The surpluses generated by the payroll tax are lent to the Treasury. When the baby boomers retire, the Treasury will have to pay back the Social Security Administration. Where will it get the money? From taxes.
In effect, the Greenspan commission hoped to raise national savings - and thereby provide for economic growth - the only way that is known to work: lower the deficit. And it planned to do so by raising the only tax Congress would touch. Because the public erroneously believes Social Security benefits only come from Social Security taxes, it accepted the commission's recommendations.
That was politically possible but unjust. In effect, the commission tried to solve the nation's savings problems with the least fair tax. Payroll taxes hit all wage income equally up to a maximum of $51,300. Above that, high earners get off scot-free. In combination with the Reagan-era reductions in marginal tax rates, tax burdens have shifted away from the rich and onto average workers.
What the nation's future needs now is tax increases, not cuts. A strong economy demands high investment. That means lower deficits. The important task is to set an overall target for the budget that is consistent with the nation's need to save and then set taxes at efficient, fair levels. In his new budget plan, Mr. Bush offers a ''Social Security integrity and debt reduction fund'' that, by default, does set such a target. The effect would eventually be a budget in surplus by more than $100 billion. Many economists would consider that draconian. It also rules out lowering the unfair payroll tax.
Congress could reduce the deficit, yet lower the unfair payroll tax. But that requires making up for the lost revenues. Mr. Moynihan's proposal is right because it seeks to help the low-paid. It is wrong because it refuses to pay the price.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SOCIAL SECURITY (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (71%); 



665 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Canadians Buy a Share of the American Dream

BYLINE: By ANDREW H. MALCOLM

 BODY:
CANADIANS have for decades been accustomed to sleeping in Holiday Inns, eating Kentucky Fried Chicken and getting their Fords fixed at Midas, and many of them have come to resent the widespread presence of these and other American companies.
But in recent years the corporate shoe has been moving to the other foot. The recent multibillion-dollar bankruptcy by Federated Stores Inc., the parent of nine American retailing chains controlled by Robert Campeau, a Canadian developer, underlined only one facet of the growing economic integration of North America.
Canada, with 26 million people, and the United States, with 250 million, have forged the largest bilateral economic relationship in the world. Every year nearly $200 billion in goods and services are exchanged across the 5,524-mile border, producing a regular trade surplus of about $20 billion in Canada's favor. The two countries are, by far, each other's largest trading partners. Canada takes about 20 percent of all American exports; the United States buys nearly 80 percent of Canada's. A year ago this month, a Free Trade Agreement went into effect that is to abolish virtually all remaining duties and tariffs between the countries over 10 years. Within weeks, negotiators agreed to speed up the timetable. 
As the Campeau bankruptcy illustrated, the integration has a far-reaching economic and political impact. Such intimate links put some American workers in the unaccustomed role of being subject to decisions like layoffs and plant closures made in foreign headquarters.
For their part, many Canadians fear a loss of identity and the jeopardizing of sacred social programs in a harshly competitive continental economy dominated by Americans. They cite any job losses - some Canadian manufacturers move their plants across the border because American labor is cheaper - as proof that Canada will suffer more from free trade than it will gain through access to cheaper foreign products and a larger market.
While some Canadians fear becoming the 51st state, however, some American states like Tennessee advertise themselves as the 11th province, so eager are they for investment. And whatever the fears, the drive for markets and profits sees Canada and the United States owning ever larger chunks of each other.
 
Just Behind the British
The United States had long been the largest foreign investor in Canada, with about $62 billion of direct investment there in 1988, up from $54.5 billion in 1987. But now, according to the Canadian Government, Canada has $34.5 billion of direct investments in the United States, up from $30.3 billion in 1987. With less comprehensive counting, the United States Department of Commerce put the Canadian direct investments at $27.4 billion in 1988, up from $11.7 billion in 1982, ranking the Canadian stake fourth behind that of the British, Japanese and Dutch.
''The Free Trade Agreement merely ratified a major economic movement that was already well advanced,'' said Seymour M. Lipset, a Stanford professor and author of ''Continental Divide: The Institutions and Values of the United States and Canada,'' which is due out in April. ''In fact, on a per capita basis Canadians own far more of the United States than vice versa.''
While much concern has been expressed in recent months about Japanese acquisition of American properties, growing Canadian ownership has gone relatively unnoticed. Canadians including the Reichmann family of Toronto, which owns the huge Olympia & York Real Estate Company, have acquired more than 25 million square feet of Manhattan office space, one square foot for each Canadian citizen.
Kenneth Thomson, the son of Lord Thomson, the Toronto newspaper magnate, owns 117 daily newspapers in the United States from Valdosta, Ga., to West Covina, Calif., plus dozens of trade publications. Another Toronto entrepreneur, Conrad Black, owns 54 American dailies. The Bank of Montreal owns Chicago's mammoth Harris Bank, which produces nearly a quarter of the parent bank's annual income, while Canada's Cineplex Odeon, the continent's second-largest theater chain, controls 1,882 movie screens in the United States.
A good example of the economic integration under way is Northern Telecom, which has headquarters in suburban Toronto and is the second-largest telecommunications company in North America. It has 21,721 employees in Canada and 21,638 employees in the United States. The American operation produces 62 percent of its $5.4 billion annual revenues. The first major purchase of foreign phone equipment by the Japanese national telephone company, N.T.T., was a $250 million deal with Northern Telecom, which will manufacture most of the equipment at its North Carolina plant. ''It's really all about the development of a single North American economy,'' said Gerald Levitch, a company spokesman.
 
A New Breed
Experts attribute Canada's emerging economic aggressiveness to the need for new markets to augment stagnant earnings from domestic markets that have essentially reached their limits of growth. In addition to the attraction of cheaper American labor in some cases, there is also the advantage of taking home profits in more valuable American dollars. Canada has also seen the rise of a new class of entrepreneurs, many of them the offspring of immigrants, like the Reichmanns or the president of the Four Seasons hotel chain, Isadore Sharp, who did not attend the exclusive prep schools and universities that traditionally produce the leaders of Canada's tightly knit, insular business clans. The Reichmanns are also among the top Western investors in Eastern Europe, as is another Toronto businessman, Andrew Sarlos.
Alan Rugman, a University of Toronto economist, sees continued growth in Canada's conglomerates beyond the United States into Africa and the Pacific Rim. Four Seasons, for instance, has 10 new foreign projects, including ones in Tokyo and Singapore. He sees his country's guaranteed access to the vast American market as an enticement to foreigners like the Japanese, who may fear eventual American trade restrictions, to open operations in Canada as a way of gaining back-door entry. Many American companies used the same tactic decades ago, building plants in Canada to gain duty-free access to the larger markets of the British Commonwealth.
The opportunities some Canadian companies find in the United States can produce interesting anomalies. Moosehead, the New Brunswick beer that is the sixth most popular imported brand in America, is available in all 50 states but in only four of the 12 Canadian provinces and territories. And if the Denver Broncos win the Super Bowl tonight, Americans will have to adjust to the fact that the championship team of American football is owned by a Canadian, Pat Bowlen.

GRAPHIC: Drawing; graph of U.S.-Canadian cross-border direct investment, 1978-88 (Source: Canadian Government); table lists leading U.S. trade partners in 1988 and value of exports/imports (Source: Department of Commerce)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); PLANT CLOSINGS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); 

PERSON: MALCOLM, ANDREW H ROBERT JOSEPH CAMPEAU (72%); 



666 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Other Walls May Fall, But in Fortress Cuba Castro Stands Firm

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
THE changes sweeping Eastern Europe are stirring hopes here and in some quarters of Havana that Fidel Castro's long reign over Cuba may be coming to an end. ''We are sure something has to happen in our sad country,'' a dissident in Havana wrote to a friend in the Miami area, where more than 500,000 Cubans have fled since Mr. Castro took power in 1959. Anticipation in Miami has reached such levels that the police have prepared plans to control celebrating crowds of Cuban exiles on the day Mr. Castro falls.
But many experts on Cuba, including Bush Administration officials, say the anticipation represents only the dreams of Mr. Castro's enemies. ''We don't see much in the way of political change in Cuba in the wake of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union,'' said an Administration official who wishes Mr. Castro only the worst. ''My guess is that Castro is relatively secure.'' 
The hopes that the Cuban leader is on the decline are based on his isolation as the only Soviet ally outside Asia to resist a trend toward market economies and increased personal liberties. In addition, the Soviet Union may be less willing to bolster the struggling Cuban economy, making life more austere.
Indeed, 75 percent of Cuba's trade is with the Soviet Union and most of its economic aid, about $13 million a day, comes from Moscow, much of it in the form of subsidies. The Soviets buy Cuba's main export, sugar, at more than double the world price and provide petroleum at special low prices, which allows Cuba to sell some of it for hard currency.
An abrupt end to the economic assistance would be catastrophic. Moscow's diplomats say that a decline in aid and trade is likely as Soviet industry becomes more profit-oriented and more cash is required for domestic development. But they insist that any reduction will be gradual. Experts on Cuba say this is likely to hold true because Moscow still wants the use of Mr. Castro's island for electronic surveillance of the eastern United States and as a base for reconnaissance planes and naval vessels. Further, the experts say, the Soviets do not want to be seen as abandoning a socialist ally, particularly one with the potential for rallying criticism of Moscow in the third world.
The impact of the decline in Soviet support will depend in large part on Mr. Castro's success in finding new trading partners, some of whom will have to be induced to accept barter, given his shortage of hard currency. A few weeks ago he signed an agreement for increased trade with China, and he has been stepping up business in Latin America.
 
The View From Home
At home, many Cubans still consider Mr. Castro their hero, even though they live with chronic shortages. For them, he remains the revolutionary who forced out a corrupt dictator 31 years ago, guaranteed education, health care and basic food and housing, and turned Cuba into a mini-superpower that has commanded the attention, if not the respect, of much of the world. Dissidents are kept in check by Mr. Castro's security apparatus, and American officials say there is no evidence of significant organized opposition. Mr. Castro ended a brief period in which some freedoms were permitted, and his most vocal critics, the leaders of a few small human rights organizations, have been jailed.
To be sure, several thousand Cubans continue to leave the island every year, and the United States treats them as political refugees. But many of them say privately that their strongest motivations are reuniting with family members and availing themselves of greater economic opportunities. Gillian Gunn, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said that during a visit to Cuba in December she saw no evidence of ''that seething energy beneath the surface'' that had been reported in Eastern Europe before it was swept by popular change last fall. ''Castro,'' she said, ''is still adored by a lot of Cubans.''
An area where some experts see a remote potential for trouble for Mr. Castro is in the armed forces. The execution last summer of Maj. Gen. Arnaldo Ochoa Sanchez, whom Mr. Castro's Government accused of drug smuggling, is believed to have generated some ill will among fellow officers. All of Cuba's senior officers have spent time in the Soviet Union and some might be receptive if the Soviets instigated a push against Mr. Castro. But any such move would run against nationalistic instincts in Havana and would require extremely deft maneuvering because the head of the armed forces is Mr. Castro's brother, Raul.
If Cuba's position as a Soviet ally invites comparisons to the Eastern European countries, there are also huge differences, one being that socialism was not imposed from the outside in Cuba. Its arrival with Mr. Castro's home-grown revolution was not an act of submission to a powerful neighbor, but rather a form of defiance of the United States. ''The Eastern European leaders never had any real legitimacy,'' said Wayne S. Smith, a former head of the United States diplomatic mission in Havana. ''There was never any question of Castro's legitimacy.''
 
Socialism's 'Last Defenders'
Most scholars suspect that Mr. Castro, now 63 years old, opposes the changes in the Soviet Union because he recognizes that such changes would reduce his power. ''We owe everything that we are to the revolution and socialism,'' Mr. Castro said in a speech last month. ''Destiny assigns us the role of one day being among the last defenders of socialism.'' Were capitalism to return to Cuba, Mr. Castro declared, ''our independence and sovereignty would disappear forever.''
When Mikhail S. Gorbachev was introducing the first changes in the Soviet Union in early 1986, Cuba was going the other way. Mr. Castro had experimented for several years with limited capitalism in the form of farmers' free markets; the flow of produce had never been better, but he abandoned the effort, suggesting that high profits for some were threatening his stated goal of a classless society. He then began a ''rectification of errors,'' eliminating material incentives and calling for greater efficiency and production.
A confrontation between the United States and Cuba is likely next month when a branch of the Voice of America starts test broadcasts of television news, sports and soap operas to the island. Mr. Castro has threatened to respond by using huge transmitters in Cuba to disrupt commercial broadcasting in the United States, and at the same time is expected to use the issue to rally nationalism and divert Cubans from their daily woes.
Jaime Suchlicki, a specialist on Cuba at the University of Miami, says Mr. Castro may also have a few tricks up his sleeve for the Communist Party congress in March. ''He's going to survive this crisis,'' he said. ''He's very clever.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fidel Castro (Sipa/De Mulder) (pg. 1); Experts believe Fidel Castro's rule is not seriously endangered at this point. (Black Star/Peter Turnley) (pg. 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (98%); EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TRENDS (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CURRENCIES (70%); POLITICS (69%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (60%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (50%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%); NAVAL VESSELS (50%); 

PERSON: CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); TREASTER, JOSEPH B FIDEL CASTRO (94%); 



667 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: BUDGET OUTLOOK;
The Process That Ate Washington

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY

 BODY:
Arrival of the President's budget on Capitol Hill creates what is charitably known as the Congressional budget process. In truth it is less a process than a Rube Goldberg nightmare of unrealistic deadlines, overlapping jurisdictions and competing mandates involving every committee in Congress. The numbers, contradictory and ever changing, will be irrelevant by September, when the decisions that matter are made. Budget making often consumes an entire legislative session.
In some years, the process has been supplanted by ''budget summits,'' where White House and Congressional leaders behind closed doors work out the pivotal decisions on taxes or military spending in advance. If logic ever dictated a year for summitry it would be 1990, when reshaping the Pentagon budget and proposals for cutting the Social Security tax promise to play havoc with both politics and bookkeeping. But Democratic leaders, who believe they were snookered in the back rooms last year, and who face rebellion from committee chairmen excluded from the summits, have vowed to work within the system this time. 
That is, of course, unless the process itself is overhauled. Some lawmakers want to remove the Social Security trust fund, now in surplus, from the calculation of the deficit. Others want to revamp the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings balanced-budget law, grafted onto the process in 1985 to force annual cuts in the deficit and to bring it to zero by 1993.
The deficit target for the 1991 fiscal year is $64 billion. Here is a guide to the tortuous process by which Congress and the Administration are supposed to reach it.
 
Jan.-Feb.: Political scorekeeping
The President is supposed to submit a budget on the first Monday after Jan. 3; this year it will be Jan. 29. The Congressional Budget Office recalculates that budget using its own economic assumptions. Congress and the Administration, already $37 billion apart on estimating the 1990 deficit, argue over who has cooked the books.
 
Feb.-March: The best-laid plans
House and Senate Budget Committees hold hearings and decide separately on their budgets, which set total spending and revenues, resulting deficit, and spending ceilings for 22 broad categories.
 
April-May: Whose budget is it, anyway?
House and Senate pass budget committee bills; differences are worked out in conference. Congress is supposed to approve the final budget by April 15; no Presidential signature is required. Budget committees instruct other authorizing committees - Armed Services, Ways and Means, etc. - to find spending cuts or tax increases needed to meet the deficit target. These committees submit recommendations for cuts to the budget panels.
Meanwhile, the House and Senate Appropriations Committees, which actually decide how much money will be spent on a particular program, begin work on the 13 major spending bills that Congress must pass each year. The 13 appropriations subcommittees handle the bills. In the House, the turf-conscious chairmen of these powerful panels are known collectively as the College of Cardinals.
 
June-Aug.: Whose ox is gored?
The budget panels combine recommendations for cuts and tax increases. These politically painful measures are known as - what else? -Reconciliation Bills. These, too, must be melded in conference, approved by each house and then sent to the President. Approval deadline is June 15. Last year, it happened in late November, as Congress adjourned. Late December is not unusual.
The House is supposed to be finishing the 13 annual spending bills, which may or may not agree in spirit and arithmetic with the reconciliation measures. As each is approved, it goes to the Senate, then to conference, to final approval on each floor, and then to the President.
 
Aug.-Sept.: What's in a number?
On Aug. 15, the Administration reassesses the economic forecast on which its January budget numbers were based and issues the forecast on which all the remaining decisions will be made. Changes in the economy can throw previous action out of kilter and may require more cuts or tax increases to reach the deficit target. On Aug. 25 the Administration, tallying the cost of legislation passed to date, calculates automatic spending cuts that will be needed if Congress does not meet the goal.
 
Sept.: Gridlock and green eyeshades
The unpassed spending bills, stalled initiatives and thwarted political wills inevitably collide. Talk of budget summits revives and decision-making moves to the back rooms. About Sept. 30, the $3.1 trillion limit on the national debt will be reached, and the Treasury Department must seek Congressional approval to keep borrowing. Now a bargaining chip in the budget negotiations, the debt bill becomes a magnet for other pet bills. Congress and the Administration accuse each other of bringing the country to the brink of default.
 
Oct.: Days of reckoning
On Oct. 1 the new fiscal year begins. All spending bills are supposed to be signed by then. (Congress has managed to approve them all by that date only once since 1977.) If not, Congress may have to pass a ''continuing resolution,'' a stopgap spending bill for agencies-in-waiting. In some years, the entire budget has been handled this way. On Oct. 15, the President orders automatic spending cuts if Congress has not met its deficit target.
 
Nov.-Dec.: The bottom line
Congress sorts out the budget debris in a mad rush to hit the deficit target and adjourn by year's end. Elections this year will mean early adjournment, but many lawmakers predict a lame-duck session after the balloting. By the time the books are closed, ''emergency'' and ''dire emergency'' spending will have added billions to the deficit, but by then next year's target is what's important.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%); 

PERSON: RASKY, SUSAN F



668 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: BUDGET OUTLOOK;
Numbers Tomorrow, To Be Followed By Heavy Politics

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Gradually over the last several weeks, the basic elements of the budget President Bush will send Congress tomorrow have seeped out.
He will propose spending $1.2 trillion in the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, leaving a deficit of $63.1 billion. He will ask Congress to approve $295 billion for the Pentagon, $4 billion more than this year but about $6 billion, or 2 percent, less than what would be needed for the Pentagon to keep pace with inflation.
He will suggest a large spending increase for drug control and a small one for education programs. He will ask for a cut in the capital gains tax and a new kind of savings account to encourage Americans to put money aside. Invoking the theme of ''America the Beautiful,'' he will recommend modest new programs to protect the environment. And he will advocate changing the Medicare law, so the medical insurance program for the elderly and disabled would cost the Government billions of dollars less. 
Of course, he will seek no new taxes.
The prospects are dim that the new budget will be taken more seriously than those in the past few years. The debate over military spending, for instance, will not be over whether to cut President Bush's request but over how much to cut it by and whether to trim spending on personnel or weapons systems. The new savings account Mr. Bush is proposing will have no more standing than competing proposals by several lawmakers.
As soon as they see Mr. Bush's budget, the Democrats will begin demanding more money for drug control, education and other areas popular with their constituents. Mr. Bush is certain to oppose and even veto measures throughout the year on the ground that they exceed his budget levels. So the budget will serve one essential function. It will be the main battleground for the election year's political wars.
In terms of money, the Federal budget is larger than all other countries' entire economies except those of the Soviet Union and Japan. The book with all the numbers is larger than the Manhattan telephone directory. But despite the months of work that went into putting the documents together, they will probably gather dust once they are delivered to Congress.
Until relatively recently, Presidents' budgets were a blueprint for all Government activities. Working from the master plan, Congress made minor changes, taking small amounts from some areas and putting the money in others. But as is the case in parliamentary democracies, the Government ran mostly according to the initial proposals of its chief executive.
But in the last decade, Presidents' budgets have become, in the words of Stanley E. Collender, a budget specialist at Price Waterhouse, the accounting firm, ''more of a wish list than a series of proposals that can be adopted.''
There are two main reasons for the declining importance of Presidential budgets.
First, Congressional budget procedures put in place in the mid-1970's gave Congress the structure and expertise to challenge Presidential priorities. Until then, the executive branch had all the computers and analysts, and Congress had no choice but to accept their judgments. In addition, rivalry among Congressional committees prevented a unified assessment of spending and taxes. But the establishment of budget committees in the House and Senate and the creation of the Congressional Budget Office with its staff of more than 200 economists and other professionals put Congress, to whom the Constitution gives the power of the purse, on an equal footing.
Second, and probably more important, the Reagan and Bush Administrations turned their budgets into openly political documents that they knew stood no chance of adoption. Every year since 1985, for example, the Presidents have proposed large increases in military spending; Congress has reduced the President's Pentagon budget request by an average of 2 percent a year. Year after year, the Presidents proposed abolishing or trimming the same domestic programs, including mass transit subsidies, the Legal Services Agency and the Economic Development Administration; each year Congress continued the appropriations. Last year, President Bush made modest education proposals like rewarding successful schools and recognizing superior teachers; Congress never paid them a glance.
''We've been led down the primrose path so often that their budgets are just dead on arrival,'' said Senator Robert C. Byrd, the West Virginia Democrat who heads the Appropriations Committee. Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the top Republican on the Budget Committee, said Mr. Reagan's ideological approach to the budget made the document ''less relevant and far more cantankerous.''
The Gramm-Rudman-Hollings law, which sets mandatory deficit ceilings each year, has further reduced the significance of Presidents' budgets. ''Gramm-Rudman sets a total no one can possibly hit with serious policy proposals,'' said Joseph White, a budget expert at the Brookings Institution. As a result, Presidents and lawmakers resort to accounting tricks like moving paydays from one year to another and leaving out of the budget much of the money being spent to rescue savings and loan institutions.
''Presidents' budgets crossed the line into total unacceptability when they had to deal with deficits,'' said Edwin L. Dale Jr., a top aide to Richard G. Darman, the budget director. He emphasized that he was talking about previous budgets and not the one that will go to Congress this week.
Many economists are skeptical of Mr. Darman's contention that continued economic growth can be counted on to whittle away significantly at the budget deficit. The Administration's economic assumptions are somewhat more optimistic than the consensus of private economists for this year, and they are much more optimistic in the years ahead.
In an unusual essay that Mr. Darman wrote to introduce the new budget, he maintained that the Administration's economic forecasts were not ''outside the credible range.'' This budget, he wrote, will be ''seriously presented'' and should be ''treated seriously.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article in some copies yesterday about the Bush Administration's proposed budget for 1991 misstated the Administration's estimate of the deficit for the fiscal year 1990, which ends Sept. 30. The estimate is $123.8 billion.

GRAPHIC: Drawing; graph of projected Federal expenditures for fiscal 1990 (Source: Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: PRICE WATERHOUSE CSG (50%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VETO (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MEDICARE (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); APPROVALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



669 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 19, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1975 words

HEADLINE: Where Lewis and Clark Wintered

BYLINE: By WILLIAM B. WHITMAN; WILLIAM B. WHITMAN is a career diplomat based in Washington.

 BODY:
AS a hopelessly provincial Easterner I had always thought of Astoria as (a) the last name of a well-known New York hotel, (b) the only name of an area of New York City or (c) the title of a half-forgotten travel book by Washington Irving. Recently, however, I visited (d) the real thing - a handsome and historic city situated where the mighty Columbia River meets Oregon's thundering Pacific coast. I soon found to my delight that visitors to this Astoria can, within the space of only a few days or miles, relive the wild days of the early Northwest, wander through a neighborhood of superbly preserved Victorian houses and explore some of America's most magnificent coastal scenery.
Astoria's modern history began in December 1805, when the Lewis and Clark expedition, sent out by Thomas Jefferson to explore routes to the Pacific Northwest, arrived at the mouth of the Columbia River after an arduous 4,000-mile trek. After building Fort Clatsop, a rough log stockade named for the local Indian tribe, the expedition spent the winter of 1805-06 under drenching rains, battling both chronic illness and armies of fleas. 
The trailblazers' return to the East stirred enormous excitement throughout the young republic, especially in the New York offices of John Jacob Astor, an immigrant from Germany (the town of Waldorf to be precise), whose fur trading empire had made him America's richest man. According to Washington Irving, whose ''Astoria'' became the official history of the project, Astor immediately saw the intersection of the Columbia and the Pacific as the ideal spot for a chief trading house where pelts from other Western outposts along the Missouri and Columbia could be collected for shipment to China.
Astor's project was short lived. In 1811 his supply ship arrived from New York to found the outpost, making Astoria both the first United States settlement west of the Rockies and New York City's only colony. A second Astor expedition arrived overland from St. Louis in 1812, and Astoria began to flourish, but only briefly. During the War of 1812, threats of British attack forced the sale of Astoria to rival British fur interests, who promptly renamed it Fort George. Although Astoria was restored to the United States after the war, Astor's ambitious dream was over.
The best place to begin your own expedition to Astoria is at the top of the 125-foot Astoria Column, a copy of Trajan's column in Rome, just behind the city, for a spectacular overview of the region. Just below the observation deck, a neighborhood of pristine Victorian homes unfurls down Coxcomb Hill to Astoria's bright and tidy business district, and then on to the broad and choppy Columbia, with its busy traffic of fishing boats and freighters. Over on the Washington side, at the entrance to the Columbia, lurks hook-shaped Cape Disappointment, the much-feared Graveyard of the Pacific, where treacherous tides, sudden storms and strong winds have claimed hundreds of ships over the centuries. On the near shore another peninsula marks the beginning of Oregon's coast of deserted beaches, rocky headlands and evergreen forests stretching 400 miles south to California.
The merchant princes, timber barons, cannery kings and other 19th-century commercial nobility left behind a rich architectural legacy. Their graceful and splendidly maintained Victorian homes, mainly situated on or near Franklin Street, are an eclectic mix of period styles that include Queen Anne and Italianate; 32 of Astoria's Victorians are listed in the National Register of Historic Places and several are bed and breakfasts. This enclave, brimming over with curlicues, cupolas and verandas, dramatic views of the Columbia and colorful gardens, makes a perfect place to stroll. Don't miss the Hobson House at 469 Bond Street, lived in by members of the family since 1863, the Queen Anne-style Martin Foard house and its four turn-of-the-century neighbors at the corner of 16th Street and Grand Avenue and the Cherry House at 836 15th Street, built in 1883 for the British consul at what was then a major trading port.
Although most of these homes are private and closed to the public, the beautifully restored Flavel house, at Eighth and Duane Streets, is now a museum that vividly re-creates upper-crust life in the Astoria of 1890. The Queen Anne villa's elegant furnishings, 14-foot ceilings, six elaborate fireplaces and wrap-around verandas make it easy to imagine that Captain Flavel and his family have stepped out for only a moment Admission tickets to the Flavel House are also valid for the Heritage Center Museum, at 16th and Exchange Streets, with its collection of historical artifacts and exhibits. A block away, at 15th and Exchange, on the site of the original Astoria, a small park contains a replica of one of the fort's log blockhouses.
At the foot of 17th Street the Columbia River Maritime Museum brings together a large and fascinating collection of hands-on exhibits and nautical lore from Astoria's long sea-faring history. Here children and more ancient mariners can peer through submarine periscopes or take the helm of a World War II destroyer.
If you visit Fort Clatsop on a bright and clear day, as we did, it is hard to imagine how this idyllic spot, bursting with wildflowers and thick with evergreens, could have been the scene of so much misery for Lewis and Clark. Behind the Park Service Visitor Center stands a copy of the original seven-room fort, complete with precise reproductions of the expedition's clothing, furniture and personal belongings. In the enlisted men's quarters, where 27 men once crowded into three small rooms, rough-hewn bunk beds covered with skins are clustered for warmth around stone fireplaces, and clothing, as if still soggy from the miserable winter of 1806, is stretched out to dry over the fire.
Next to Lewis and Clark's Captain's Quarters is the fort's only private room, where the expedition's French trapper-interpreter, Toussaint Charbonneau, lived with his wife, Lewis and Clark's Shoshone guide, Sacajawea, and their small child. Out on the now dry and sunny parade ground, you will often find a park ranger dressed in buckskin and a coonskin cap using period tools to fashion the rough wooden boxes and bowls used by the expedition. Leaving the fort, you can follow quiet trails, edged with the same plants noted in the expedition's journals, down to the canoe landing where Lewis and Clark first arrived and the spring that gave the expedition its fresh water.
A short drive away, at the mouth of the Columbia, stands Fort Stevens, originally a Union Army stronghold established to keep Confederate gunboats out of the river and now a large and attractive state park. Although the fort's Civil War role proved theoretical, massive concrete gun batteries were added later and Fort Stevens was used for coastal defense and training duty in two world wars before being de-activated in 1946. Today it offers miles of bicycle and hiking trails, campgrounds and ocean beaches.
FORT STEVENS' martial past is well represented by a small and interesting military museum with Civil War and World War II artifacts, many of which recall the night in June 1942 when the fort was fired on by a Japanese submarine.
Astoria is also an ideal base for day trips along the coast. A few miles from town, U.S. 101, coastal Oregon's flower and evergreen-lined Main Street, swings south to the resort and convention center of Seaside and then on to Cannon Beach, a charming community with attractive shops and a splendid nine-mile beach. Ecola State Park, just north of Cannon Beach, offers panoramas of the coastline and views of Haystack Rock, an offshore bird and aquatic refuge; the park is a place of tranquillity where visitors can watch sea lions sunbathe, beachcomb or hike the Oregon Coast Trail. At Tillamook, Oregon's cheese capital, signs on U.S. 101 mark the turnoff for the Three Capes Loop, a 35-mile winding road through evergreen forests and unforgettable seascapes. The Three Capes drive ends at Pacific City, a silent and remote village where dory fishermen push off to sea from deserted and seemingly endless beaches.
 
INTO THE PACIFIC NORTHWEST
 
Getting There
If you are coming from Portland, allow about two hours driving time along U.S. 30. The trip from Seattle usually takes four hours.
 
Things to See
The Greater Astoria Area Chamber of Commerce maintains a visitor center at 111 West Marine Drive. Mailing address: Post Office Box 176, Astoria, Ore. 97103; For travel information on the coast, write to the State of Oregon's Economic Development Department at 595 Cottage Street, N.E., Salem, Ore. 97310 or call 800-547-7842.
The Astoria Column, on Coxcomb Hill Road, is open every day from dawn to dusk. The Flavel House museum (503-325-2563) is open daily from 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. in the summer, 11 A.M. to 4 P.M. the rest of the year. The $3 entry fee (children 75 cents) includes the Heritage Museum, which keeps the same hours.
The Columbia River Maritime Museum (503-325-2323) is open daily from 9:30 A.M. to 5 P.M., but closed Mondays from October to April. Admission is $3, but children under 6 get in free.
The Fort Clatsop Visitor Center, on Alternate U.S. 101 five miles from Astoria, offers exhibits, expedition route maps and film showings; open from 8 A.M. to 6 P.M. in the summer, 8 to 5 the rest of the year. Admission is $1. Call 503-861-2471 for information.
At Fort Stevens, just off U.S. 101, the museum is open from 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. in the summer, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. the rest of the year. Donations requested. The campground is open all year; reserve by phoning 503-861-1671. Bike rentals at Fort Stevens are available at 316 Russell Drive in the village of Hammond; 503-861-0937.
 
Where to Stay
One of the best motels is the Red Lion, 400 Industry Street; 503-325-7373; 800-547-8010. A room for two costs around $75. Other possibilities include several bed and breakfasts in historic Victorians, including K.C.'s Mansion, 3652 Duane Street (503-325-6172), where rooms begin at $65 for two with breakfast.
 
Where to Eat
In Astoria, the Pier 11 Feed Store at the foot of 11th Street (503-325-0279) offers grilled salmon and Dungeness crab. Expect to spend about $35 for dinner for two with wine. The Ship Inn, also on the river at the end of Second Street (503-325-0033), specializes in fish and chips platters. Dinner here runs about $30 for two, wine included. The Columbian Cafe at 1114 Marine Drive has a strong local following for its pastas, crepes and fish, including poached salmon and smoked halibut. Around $25 for two with wine. Hours are slightly eccentric, so call ahead (503-325-2233).
In Cannon Beach, the Whaler at 200 North Hemlock (503-436-2821) is a good choice for fish, as is Dooger's Seafood at 1371 South Hemlock (503-436-2225); both are in the $15 to $20 range, wine included.
Pacific City is a logical lunch destination for day trippers from Astoria. The Riverhouse at 34450 Brooten Road (503-965-6722) offers steamed clams, grilled Chinook salmon and super fish chowders; about $20 a person including a choice Oregon white. Nearby, in the tiny crossroads community of Otis, the quintessential American roadhouse, the Otis Cafe, is renowned for enormous breakfasts, high-cal fruit pies and towering sandwiches. Under $5 a person.
 
Special Events
Every June the city throws a Scandinavian Festival, complete with nonstop folk dancing and music, plus a Miss Scandinavia contest. The 1990 version is planned for June 15 to 17. Another major event is the annual Astoria Regatta, which will be held Aug. 8 to 12; a day of Victorian house tours is traditionally part of the festivities. There is a parade of 40 to 50 boats, and a sailboat race with about a dozen entries. - W. B. W.

GRAPHIC: Photos: On board the Indigo, a 22-pound albacore tuna is weighed; The Flavel House, in Queen Anne style, is now a museum; A ranger demonstrates fire-making with flint and steel; Haystack Rock is a bird and aquatic refuge (Diane Kulpinski); map of Oregon coast showing location of Astoria

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ITALY (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); OREGON, USA (93%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ROME, ITALY (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC COAST LIGHTING (57%); PACIFIC COAST PRODUCERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ASTORIA (ORE); OREGON

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); HISTORY (76%); ARMIES (74%); MARINE VESSELS (62%); CHRONIC DISEASES (51%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, WILLIAM B JOHN JACOB ASTOR (68%); 



670 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4, Column 4; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: By CARL SOMMERS

 BODY:

Machu Picchu
Q. We are planning a trip to Machu Picchu, Peru. Is there a rainy season? What time of year is best? Are there problems with terrorist attacks on tourists? - A. B., Douglaston, Queens
A. There is a rainy season at Machu Picchu, Inca ruins set amid forested mountains 50 miles northwest of Cuzco. Some time between mid-September and mid-October, clouds begin building up, impeding views, and there is occasional light rain until December. From December through March there are several hours of rain each day. From April to at least mid-September, skies are clear, with daytime temperatures in the 70's, dropping to the lower 30's at night. Most people visit in June, July and August; if you can visit in April, May or early September, you can get good weather and smaller crowds. 
The United States State Department has a travel advisory in effect for Peru, warning of terrorist activities by the Shining Path and the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement groups. Because of terrorism, a large part of central Peru, from the the department of San Martin in the north to Ayacucho in the south is a military zone that is off-limits to travelers. The department also says that difficult economic conditions have led to increased crime in tourist areas, including Cuzco and the train from Cuzco to Machu Picchu. Visitors to ruins near Cuzco and in the Sacred Valley, an area of ruins to the northwest, should not stray from well-traveled roads, the department says.
A spokeswoman at the Peru office of the South American Explorers' Club, which supplies information to travelers, also says that there is a problem with crime. The office advises travelers that there is no terrorist activity in the Cuzco area and that train travel is safe.
There is a backpacking trail between Cuzco and Machu Picchu, the Inca Trail. Both the State Department and the Explorers' Club advise those who take the trail to travel in groups.
Because the situation in Peru is tense and unstable, it is best to get the latest information. One source is the United States office of the South American Explorers' Club, Post Office Box 18327, Denver, 80218; 800-274-0568. On arriving in Peru, United States citizens are advised to check with the consular section of the American Embasy in Lima at 346 Grimaldo del Solar, Miraflores; telephone 443621 or 443921.
The Lima office of the South American Explorers' Club is also a good source in Peru for updates on safety and trail and weather conditions: Avenida Ev Portual 146, Brena; 314480. The country code for Peru is 51, the city code for Lima is 14.
 
Cruising With Car to Europe
Q. I am planning to spend several months in Europe. I would like to take my car with me on a ship that would take me as a passenger too. - L. M., Glendale, Ariz.
A. Here are two ways to do it: the plain and the lavish. The plain way is to ship your car and go along as a passenger on a freighter operated by Polish Ocean Lines, which leaves Newark every Monday evening, calling at Baltimore, Wilmington, N.C., Le Havre, Rotterdam and Bremerhaven, a trip that takes 8 to 10 days. First you should book passage for yourself; passenger space is tighter than cargo space as the ship takes only 8 to 10 passengers. One-way passenger cost from Newark is $1,010 or $1,105 a person, depending on the cabin, which must be shared. The cost of shipping a car varies by its weight and dimensions. The range can be $300 to $1,500, according to a representative from Gdynia America Line, which represents Polish Ocean Lines in the United States. The cost of shipping a BMW 520, a medium-size car, recently was $550, the representative said. Reservations: Gdynia America Line, 39 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10006; 212-952-1280.
On a larger and more lavish scale, the QE2, with about 1,900 passengers, takes automobiles in a 60-car on-board garage. The ship makes nine trans-Atlantic sailings in each direction between July and mid-December. The cost for cars up to 5,500 pounds (which would include most autos) is $1,850 one way and $2,995 round trip, plus a $50 port charge. The vehicle may not exceed 6 feet high, 20 feet long or 6 feet wide. The car's underside must have been steam-cleaned before boarding. There must be no personal effects or baggage in the vehicle. Passenger fare starts at $1,410 a person in double occupancy, and usually includes return by air but can also include a return cruise on specified dates. The garage fee must be paid for a return cruise in any case. Reservations: travel agents or Cunard Line, 555 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017; 800-221-4770.
 
C.D.W. and Charge Cards
Q. I am contemplating auto rental in the United Kingdom. Will paying for auto rentals there with a gold card provide collision damage waiver? - R. L. O., Trevett, Me.
A. American Express green, gold and platinum cards, Visa and MasterCard gold cards and all Diners Club cards provide collision damage waiver on rental cars. This includes rentals in Britain and most other overseas locations. Cards must have been issued in the United States. To be covered by the card, you must decline the C.D.W. offered by the rental companies. Such coverage may be primary, that is, cover the cost of damage to a car incurred while you were renting it, regardless of your own car insurance. Or it may be secondary, which means it makes up for costs your own insurance does not cover, like a deductible and anything beyond a top limit of payment.
Overeas rental coverage by Visa gold cards and American Express is secondary; Diners Club and gold MasterCard coverage is primary. In some cases Diners and MasterCard directly pays repair shops rather than reimbursing renters for the repair costs.
 
Boston Pops
Q. I will be traveling to Boston in the spring and would like to attend a concert by the Boston Pops. How do I get its schedule? - J. C. C., Woodhaven, Queens
A. Opening night for the Boston Pops this year will be May 8, and the orchestra will continue to perform at Symphony Hall to mid-July. Performances are Tuesday to Saturday at 8 P.M. and on Sunday at 7:30 P.M., with none on Monday. The program schedule will not be available until early March. If you write or call now (Boston Pops, Symphony Hall, 301 Massachusetts Avenue, Boston, Mass. 02115; 617-266-1492) and leave your name and address, you will be mailed a schedule when it becomes available.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: PERU (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: THE POST OFFICE (52%); SHINING PATH (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WEATHER (90%); CRIME RATES (74%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); TRAINS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 



671 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 28, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4470 words

HEADLINE: A Story of Love or a Tale of Deceit?

BYLINE: By David Margolick: David Margolick covers legal affairs for The Times.

 BODY:
ON THE MORNING OF SEPT. 16, 1986, George Gardner picked up Patricia Nicely at a nursing home in Roanoke, Va. Only a year earlier, Nicely, a wealthy woman of 58, had been a high-level official at the National Science Foundation. Now, apparently in the grip of Alzheimer's disease, she had grown so incapacitated that a local judge had made Gardner, a 65-year-old lawyer and friend of Nicely's, her legal guardian. Today he would become her husband, too.
Gardner and Nicely drove to Washington. There, as the couple sat in Gardner's Mercedes, holding hands across the padded leather console, a pastor in the back seat performed the Methodist marriage ceremony. (Presumably by this point, Gardner, as both groom and guardian, had asked himself for permission to wed Nicely.) Too debilitated to utter - and, perhaps, even to understand - her wedding vows, the bride remained mute. The only threshold she crossed on her wedding night was the one leading back into the nursing home, where, nine months later, she died. Only when death did them part would the world learn that Gardner and Nicely had married. Patricia Nicely's obituary doubled as the only wedding announcement she would ever have. 
Gardner grieved for his wife, publicly and profusely. But, because she had died without a will, he was also about to become a millionaire. That was when his new in-laws took him to court, trying to reclaim her $1.1 million estate, as well as her remains, her maiden name and, as they saw it, her honor.
In Washington, barely an hour from Roanoke on the Piedmont Airlines commuter flight he so often took, George Gardner is a friend of the powerful, a counselor to corporations, a figure on the city's ''Social List,'' a pillar of Georgetown's most venerable Episcopal church, and an escort for some of the city's most prominent widows, including the wives of Dean Acheson, Potter Stewart and Walter Stoessel, who was the American Ambassador to the Soviet Union.
Most Sundays, he drives Mrs. Acheson to St. John's Episcopal Church, where he serves as register of the vestry. When Gardner was baptized at the church last spring, his sponsors included Mrs. Acheson and Mr. and Mrs. Edward Burling. Edward Burling is a founder of Covington & Burling, one of Washington's most famous law firms. Mrs. Burling calls Gardner ''a family man, a good man, a church man.'' Mrs. Stoessel describes him as a ''very thoughtful intellectual,'' while to Mrs. Acheson, he is ''as nice a character as he could be.'' But in April 1988, in a Roanoke court proceeding few of Gardner's Washington friends knew about, a different view emerged. Thomas T. Lawson of Roanoke, one of two lawyers representing the Nicely family, called Gardner ''a scoundrel, an interloper and a gold digger,'' who pillaged an estate while ''holding himself out with remorseless unction as the benign instrument of the law, the selfless protector of his afflicted friend.'' For an attorney, he said, ''very little offends generally accepted standards of decency and morality more.''
Is Gardner the consummate con man and social climber, who faked friendship, fabricated documents, staged a sham marriage, lied under oath, shed a torrent of tears, all in an diabolical play for money and respectability? Or is his story one of extraordinary love and loyalty to a pathetically debilitated woman, followed by a vendetta on the part of a spiteful family, avaricious lawyers and an embittered former lover? These questions divide the people who loved Pat Nicely, who nursed her, who worked with her, who went to Vassar with her 40 years ago and had remained close ever since. Some were wary of Gardner from the outset. Others say he brightened her final days, caring for her when no one else, including her own family, would.
But the law must make a choice, and after more than two years of litigation, that process will soon be complete. Tomorrow morning, Gardner goes on trial for perjury and forgery. If convicted, he could spend his last years in disgrace, and at least some of them in jail. ''I know that what I did I did out of love,'' he said in a recent interview, sobbing. ''This thing has just about destroyed me, and I feel it's terribly unjustified.''
GEORGE GARDNER, A NATIVE OF NEW CASTLE, PA. , set out to be a clergyman. He spent three years at Harvard Divinity School during World War II, and though he never graduated, he went into the ministry and led several small congregations in Massachusetts and Ohio. He had always been interested in law, however, and in 1948 he graduated from Cleveland's Western Reserve Law School. He was admitted to the Ohio bar and became a railroad lawyer, battling unions out of offices in Cleveland, Elmira, N.Y., and Richmond before coming to Roanoke in 1954.
Three times, Gardner married, though his first two marriages were short-lived. Four times, he applied for admission to the Virginia bar, and four times his application was denied, always without explanation. It left him a marginal figure on the Roanoke legal scene, and forced him into other fields - first personnel, later, labor relations. His specialty was polling employees for management, and his clients included Colonial Williamsburg, Hershey Foods and Stouffer's. A 1979 article in the Roanoke Times & World-News described him as a man who ''manipulates the consciences of corporations in 22 states.'' Gardner divided his time between Roanoke, where he was affiliated with the firm of Gardner, Moss & Rocovich, and Washington. There, he served on the board of Guest Services Inc., the company that runs concessions at the National Gallery, the Smithsonian Institution and many national parks.
Nicely, too, had religious roots: her father was the longtime pastor of Rochester's Brick Presbyterian Church. From her earliest days, when she(Continued on Page 40) took a black student to her senior prom, she did things her own way. Bright, charming, with a fresh beauty and magical smile that recalled Ingrid Bergman, she was one of those prematurely extraordinary women of the prefeminist era. At Vassar, she edited the student newspaper, enlisted in the Progressive campaign of Henry Wallace, and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa (though, characteristically, she refused to collect her key). She then moved on to Harvard in 1948, where she studied social relations under Talcott Parsons, the sociologist. It was a time when Harvard fancied itself the intellectual center of the American empire, and Pat Nicely became part of the gilded set around then-professor Henry Kissinger, who each summer would import future foreign leaders to Cambridge for his seminars.
Extremely competent but intensely insecure, exuding a vulnerability that made her more appealing still, Patricia Nicely became involved with a series of men who, a friend later recalled, invariably fell into one of four categories: handsome blonds, Boston Brahmins, intense Jewish intellectuals, or cosmopolitan foreigners. Just as invariably, the relationships fizzled. The pattern continued once she joined the National Science Foundation, whose Congressional liaison office she eventually headed. Twice engaged, she never married.
Nicely had just emerged from one such relationship in 1980 when she met Gardner. She was 52; he was 59. Over the next several months they began seeing each other regularly. They were a peculiar match: she, a liberal Democrat, statuesque and worldly; he, a short, paunchy, balding Reagan Republican with limited intellectual range. But friends detected a change in Pat Nicely, a good change. She seemed to glow.
Sometime in 1982, Gardner later said, they began drafting a marriage contract, what he called ''a continuing road map to our life together.'' Much of the document - Gardner furnished a copy to the court following Nicely's death - was taken from a marriage manual. The addenda, he said, came only after long discussion, negotiation, introspection. In the contract, the two vowed to marry in the fall of 1985, following Nicely's scheduled retirement. He said they signed the agreement - ''with mutual love and high hopes for the future,'' it stated - on May 5, 1983. ''We ask God's blessing on our covenant,'' the document concluded. Considering themselves, as he later told a friend, ''mostly married,'' they traveled abroad, at one point staying in the ''honeymoon suite'' of Oslo's Grand Hotel.
For Nicely, however, there were other, more ominous developments. As early as 1983, colleagues detected changes in her. Her efficiency began to suffer. Her eating habits and hygiene, always impeccable, deteriorated. She started stumbling and slurring her speech. She became restless and told associates that a certain ''Mr. McGuire'' was stalking her - even on a trip she and Gardner took to Africa. She carried photographs of her late father everywhere, placing one on the dashboard of her BMW. She watched children's television shows rapturously and doted over her stuffed animals. And she grew increasingly devoted to - and dependent upon - Gardner.
When Dr. Trey Sunderland, a Washington physician, examined her in February 1986, she arrived for her appointment 90 minutes early and told him Richard Nixon was President. His diagnosis was probable Alzheimer's disease; the prognosis, continued decline, with death in 6 to 10 years. In April, a Roanoke judge named Gardner her guardian, a decision in which Nicely's family concurred. ''You seem utterly devoted to Pat and far more patient than I would have been,'' her brother, William Nicely of Phoenix, wrote him.
Gardner sold Nicely's house in Georgetown, which had been on the market for several months, moved most of her belongings to Roanoke, and placed her in Friendship Manor. A few days later, he sent out the first of a series of letters apprising her friends of her condition. ''I have known Pat for five happy years, and many of you have known her much longer, so you will understand the magnitude of my loss and the depth of my sorrow to lose this lovely, warm and talented woman to such a terrible disease,'' he wrote. After five weeks in the home, she had lost 16 pounds. By mid-June she could barely speak and had difficulty swallowing.
Gardner became a familiar sight at Friendship Manor. ''Frankly, I would guess 90 percent of families do not care for a patient with Alzheimer's disease as compassionately as Mr. Gardner cared for Ms. Nicely,'' Dr. Lawrence K. Monahan, her attending physician, later testified. But other aides say that they found Gardner disconcertingly indifferent to his ward, at least when he thought no one was watching. While still able to speak, she told one nurse's aide that Gardner wanted her only for her money. On another occasion, when the aide prodded her to eat, she declared: ''Starving is a better way to die than the way he's trying to kill me.'' Once, she wrote a note. ''Call my brother,'' it stated. ''Someone's trying to hurt me.''
Though Nicely took all of her medications orally, several aides at Friendship Manor spotted what they thought were needle marks on her - in one instance, on an arm, in another, between her toes. From that point on they inspected her thoroughly whenever she returned from her outings. (Gardner says he never administered any injections to Nicely, and that what the aides noticed on her arm was the mark from her premarital blood test.) By September 1986, Nicely was refusing to eat, could no longer dress herself or brush her teeth, disrobed in public, paced constantly, was occasionally incontinent and did little more than grunt. Gardner maintains, though, that he could still communicate with her, in part by reading her lips. She told him, he said, that she still wanted to get married, and soon. ''I'm only going to get worse, George,'' he says she told him. ''I don't want to die single. I want your name.''
GARDNER HAD ALERTED the Friendship Manor staff that he planned to take Nicely out on Sept. 16, 1986, and they had readied her by the time he arrived. The two of them, along with the nurse's aide he'd hired for the day, headed for Washington, listening to Nicely's favorite music - Beethoven's violin concerto, according to Gardner - along the way. During a stop in Charlottesville, he says, Nicely walked into a convenience store and, he maintains, bought him his favorite snack: a ham and cheese sandwich. Around noon, they'd checked into the Key Bridge Holiday Inn outside Washington; Gardner then drove to the Marriott to meet the Rev. Edgar U. Hoover, an old friend of Gardner's who had flown up from Roanoke that morning. The two men fetched the marriage license while Nicely and the aide remained in the hotel room. At one point, the aide said, Nicely tried to leave and had to be restrained.
When the men returned, they left the aide at the hotel and drove with Nicely to Montrose Park in Washington, a pleasant greensward near Dumbarton Oaks where, Gardner said, he and his fiancee had spent some of their most memorable moments together. ''George, does Pat know what we're about?'' Hoover recalled asking. ''Oh, yes, indeed she does,'' he said Gardner replied. ''She has been looking forward to this for years.'' Hoover then turned to Nicely. ''Pat, do you want to marry George?'' he asked. She shook her head from side to side, he later remembered, as if to say no. But Hoover said he knew that Alzheimer's patients occasionally got their wires crossed, and he took that to be a yes.
The minister began the ceremony. When the time came, Gardner later said, Nicely squeezed his hand and mouthed the words ''I do.'' But the minister, seated behind the two, later recalled, ''Pat didn't nod her head, she did nothing. She said zilch.'' Still, from what he saw as her ''cheerful mood'' and ''body language,'' he assumed she'd consented. ''Pat, I want to be the first to call you 'Mrs. Gardner,' '' he told her when the ceremony ended. Once more, the bride said nothing, although, recalled Hoover, she was smiling brightly. Before returning to Roanoke, Gardner told Hoover that no one, not even Gardner's own four daughters, was to know about the marriage. Otherwise, he explained, Nicely's brother would attempt to ''queer'' the union. ''It really at that time should have waved a red flag, but you know I am so trusting of George for 31 years, you know, my buddy and shipmate and all that good stuff,'' Hoover later testified. ''If he told me two and two were three, I would act on it, even to the detriment of my children.''
A day and a half later - around the time Gardner subsequently said he'd had his last sexual relations with her - Nicely was considered so sick she was moved to another facility at Friendship Manor where she could receive care around the clock. Over the next several months, in periodic ''Dear Friends'' letters steeped in religiosity and sentimentality, Gardner related her decline and his vigilance. ''Pat knows that she is surrounded by love and when she puts her hand in mine or gives me one of her sweet smiles my world brightens up,'' he wrote in September 1986. In December, he told of their plans to combine Christmas ornaments, listen to a recording of carols he'd made while in the Harvard Glee Club, and exchange gifts. ''We will be thinking . . . of the child whose life has inspired so much tenderness and good will,'' he wrote. The following April, he described how, on Palm Sunday, he'd made a cross out of his palm leaf and given it to her. ''She contemplated it, holding it for a while and then with a smile, put it in my suit pocket. . . .
''Through all of this her basic sweetness of character shines through,'' he went on. ''Every time I visit her she hands me a little stuffed dog I gave her on our first Christmas together and points to the words between his outstretched front paws which say 'I wuve you this much.' ''
Many found the letters profoundly moving. Others wondered whether they were written to convey information or, rather, to build a record. Some details - like a description of some risque underwear Nicely had purportedly bought him for Christmas - were almost embarrassingly intimate.
At around the same time, the Nicely family's inquiries to Gardner went unanswered. And, within weeks of the wedding, Hoover twice spotted Gardner with another woman, once at Gardner's house, cooking him his breakfast. The woman, a Roanoke resident named Barbara Bryan, knew that Gardner was caring for Nicely, but not that he'd married her. Indeed, so impressed was she by his apparent piety, integrity and good deeds that she nominated him for an award from the Virginia Cultural Laureate Society.
Gardner and Bryan spent the evening of May 26, 1987 at Roanoke's First Baptist Church, listening to an organ recital. At 6 the next morning, she drove back to his house, made him breakfast, then took him to the Roanoke airport, where he was to fly to Washington. Late that afternoon, Friendship Manor left word with Bryan that Patricia Nicely had died (from ''progression of dementia of Alzheimer's type'' with ''nutritional insufficiency'' as a secondary cause, according to the death certificate). After contacting Gardner, Bryan stopped by his house, picked up the royal-blue bathrobe he had given Nicely the previous Christmas, met his plane and drove him to Friendship Manor. Only then, in the parking lot, did a tearful Gardner reveal his secret to her. ''By the way, you are the first to know,'' he said. ''Pat and I were married.''
Unfazed - or perhaps dazed - by the deception, Bryan, a onetime newspaper reporter in North Carolina, composed Nicely's obituary, which also disclosed the marriage. She also took dictation as Gardner composed a double-barreled telegram to William Nicely: ''PAT DIED UNEXPECTEDLY THIS EVENING. WE HAD A GOOD VISIT TUESDAY AND SHE SEEMED ALERT WE WERE MARRIED LAST SUMMER AND SHE EXPRESSED HER WISH TO BE BURIED WITH ME IN MY FAMILY PLOT THERE WILL BE A MEMORIAL SERVICE HERE THIS WEEKEND.'' Others learned of the marriage in equally unusual ways; several found out when they read the obituary Gardner placed in the Harvard alumni magazine. He also sent out one last letter to Nicely's friends. ''I wanted all my life to meet someone like Pat and she said the same about me,'' he wrote them. ''Pat was beautiful even in her illness and while . . . I learned a great deal about fear and suffering, I learned a great deal more about love. If I never had another happy moment in my life I have had more than my share.''
No autopsy was ever performed, despite Nicely's relative youth for an Alzheimer's victim, the rapidity of her decline, and what Dr. Sunderland calls the uncertainty of any Alzheimer's diagnosis; a doctor handling the case in Roanoke, Leslie Gunzenhauser, said there was no need for one.Within 20 hours of her death - in fact, before her next of kin had been reached - Nicely, wearing Gardner's gift bathrobe, was cremated. On May 30, a scorching Saturday afternoon, she was laid to rest at Roanoke's Evergreen Burial Park. The 10 or so people at the gravesite were given printed programs, with ''In memory of Mrs. Patricia 'Pat' Nicely Gardner'' typed on top. As Gardner, who had arrived late in Nicely's BMW, sat weeping, Hoover began reading, first the passage from the Book of Proverbs about the ''woman of valor,'' then from Wordsworth: ''Nothing can bring back the hour,/ Of splendor in the grass, of glory in the flower.''
Nicely's ashes were divided in three portions. One remained in Roanoke, beneath the impressive Barre granite monument Gardner bought. ''Patricia Nicely Gardner. Feb. 26, 1928 - May 27, 1987. A Good Woman, Beloved Wife,'' it read, with ''George Victor Gardner, June 13, 1921'' carved beneath. A few weeks later, Gardner sprinkled another portion on Caspian Lake in Greensboro, Vt., where the Nicely family had long spent its summers. And in November, before many of Nicely's old colleagues, a sobbing Gardner scattered the remaining ashes around what he said was their favorite red beech tree in Montrose Park. Within a few weeks, some who had attended the burial say they spotted Gardner squiring other women around Washington.
IN 1985, GARDNER'S law partner, John Rocovich, had drawn up a will for Nicely, which left nearly everything to her nieces and nephews. For some reason, she'd never signed it. As her husband, Gardner appeared entitled to her entire estate.
The Nicely family's only remedy was to ask the Circuit Court for the City of Roanoke to invalidate the marriage, which, under Virginia law, is all but impossible to do after the death of a spouse except in cases of incest or bigamy, or when an underaged partner is involved. But the Nicely family's lawyers - Thomas Lawson, and John C. Lowe of Charlottesville - argued that if Patricia Nicely was fit for marriage, so too was a corpse. Gardner continued to argue her competence and her devotion to him, producing a veritable inventory of cards, gift tags, ribbons, candy boxes and pieces of wrapping paper he'd amassed over the years. He also pledged to give away whatever he received, principally to Vassar.
The offer was nonbinding and, largely due to Barbara Bryan, would quickly become moot as well. Bryan had continued to date Gardner, but now, she later explained, prompted less by affection than curiosity. Her goal, she says, was to expose him. If, as the state's slogan declared, ''Virginia is for lovers,'' it should be for honest lovers only, she said.
She began going through Gardner's files, sifting through his trash, poring over and (with a rented portable Canon) photocopying his past. She also retraced his pastoral career, and learned of his other troubled marriages. The first, in 1943 to a 18-year-old girl, when he was 22, lasted less than two years; in divorce proceedings, she testified that when she was pregnant, he'd made her work in a meat-packing plant and tried to induce a miscarriage by forcing her to take pills. (Gardner insists the divorce was amicable, and that his wife fabricated facts to satisfy the state's stringent divorce requirements.) Gardner's second wife, an 18-year-old Radcliffe student, quickly had their marriage annulled. Another marriage followed, which ended in divorce 32 years later. ''One would tend to feel that Gardner was a selfish, egotistical, cold human being,'' the referee in that case concluded.
Rummaging through Gardner's garbage, Bryan was able to show, from scraps of paper she retrieved, that Gardner had actually cut and pasted together the ''marriage contract'' - supposedly drafted in 1983 - after Nicely died, and that a mysterious splotch over Nicely's signature (Gardner said Nicely had spilled some of her fingernail polish on it while reading it over) actually covered up Gardner's own clumsy attempt to repair her signature, which was missing a letter. Gardner now concedes the document was drawn up posthumously, but insists it duplicated a document Nicely had in fact signed, but later lost. The revelation, made during Bryan's deposition in November 1987, prompted Gardner's lawyer to walk off the case. A few days later, Gardner's law firm in Roanoke announced he had ''retired'' from the firm. It has since removed his name.
Gardner promptly dropped all claims to Nicely's estate. But two issues - the validity of the marriage and custody of her remains - remained contested, and went to trial in April 1988. There, as one side spoke of ''Patricia Elliott Nicely'' and the other of ''Patricia Nicely Gardner,'' the story of her ''marriage'' began to emerge. ''If all you had to do to get married is to sit in a car with a woman and have her shake her head 'no', I probably would have been married three or four times before I turned 17,'' Lawson said. Gardner retained Virginia's largest law firm, Hunton & Williams, to defend him, but did not testify. In the end, Judge R. William Arthur of Wytheville said he was persuaded ''beyond peradventure'' that the marriage was bogus. Within a few days of his decision, a workman at Evergreen Burial Park dug up Nicely's ashes (known in funeral argot as ''cremains'') and handed the cigar-box-sized container to Layne Ridenhour, a paralegal at Lawson's law firm. It was leaking. Soon after, the headstone was also carted away. It now sits in the stonecutter's back lot, where it will either be sanded down and used again or dumped in the local landfill.
NER was indicted by a Virginia grand jury on three counts of perjury, one count of forgery and one count of ''uttering'' - representing a forged document as genuine. Soon the legal points will be resolved, but the debate over Gardner and his motives will likely continue.
To Barbara Bryan, The enigma of George Gardner has a simple explanation. ''He has a literally insatiable desire for social stature and acceptability, and women provide a vehicle for that,'' she says.
But some of Nicely's friends still maintain that in his grief over her illness and fear that Bill Nicely would inherit her estate, George Gardner simply lost his head. ''It could be that George was an extraordinary conniver who pulled the wool over everyone's eyes, including Pat's, but I don't think so,'' one of them, Joseph Doherty of Chestertown, Md., said. ''He didn't need Pat's money. He just lost his normal cautious lawyer's approach and did a very, very stupid thing.'' ''I don't give one tinker's damn whether George ought or ought not to have married Pat or whether his devotion and care were play acting with ulterior designs,'' wrote Cynthia Taft Morris, a Vassar classmate and economics professor at Smith College, in a letter to William Nicely. ''Since Pat believed in him, he made the difference between night and day during the final year of her life.''
More than two years have passed since Patricia Nicely died, and still, Gardner says, he is haunted by her memory. Certain places - the Kennedy Center, her house on Q Street, the lake house in Greensboro - remain psychologically off limits to him. He keeps three pictures of her in his living room, the most prominent an elegant portrait from her Vassar days. Whatever the outcome, Gardner says, he will have spent some $200,000 on lawyers by the end of his case. Still, he says he plans to give a piece of whatever is left of his own money to Vassar, in Pat Nicely's memory. Already, he has donated $25 in her name to the memorial garden for local residents across the street from Willey's general store in Greensboro.
As for Patricia Nicely, she is finally at rest in Greensboro, in the cemetery overlooking Caspian Lake. This time, her tombstone bears no epitaph save for her newly restored maiden name. The closest equivalent is the inscription carved on her mother's grave nearby, words from Virginia Woolf that Patricia Nicely herself selected a decade ago. ''Hers was a divine mentality,'' it states. ''She adored life.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pat Nicely, circa 1946, when she edited a student newspaper at Vassar (pg. 28); Pat Nicely and George Gardner soon after her doctor diagnosed her disease as Alzheimer's (pg. 29); Months later, a debilitated Nicely is helped by Gardner and her niece, Shannon McBride. (pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: ROANOKE, VA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COVINGTON & BURLING LLP (57%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (58%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: WILLS AND ESTATES WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); WILLS (87%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); GUARDIANSHIPS (76%); INTESTACY (76%); MARRIAGE (75%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (74%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); AIRLINES (63%); 

PERSON: NICELY, PATRICIA; MARGOLICK, DAVID; GARDNER, GEORGE; GARDNER, GEORGE (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); NICELY, PATRICIA GEORGE GARDNER (98%); PATRICIA NICELY (88%); DEAN ACHESON (60%); 



672 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: 'WHAT DO YOU WANT FORM AN UNDERTAKER?'

BYLINE: By JONIS AGEE; Jonis Agee is the author of two collections of short fiction, ''Pretend We've Never Met'' and ''Bend This Heart.''

 BODY:

HELL-BENT MEN AND THEIR CITIES
By Susan Dodd.
240 pp. New York: Viking. $17.95.
Susan Dodd's new collection of short stories offers an intelligent, sympathetic and sometimes satirical look at life in America at the end of the 20th century. Like most fin de siecle art, her stories are about things drawing to a close and are imbued with an almost instinctual desire to preserve something of the past. What sets Ms. Dodd's work apart is that her characters not only struggle to endure, but also manage to keep one another's spirits up, and thus defy the fragmentation and loss at hand. 
Some of the best stories in this collection explore the lives of aging men whose hard-earned wisdom is delivered in crusty, economical phrases. Rendered in language that ranges from meticulous description (''my father's footsteps seem to mend the frayed edge of the corridor carpet with fine stitches. He is thin as thread'') to the almost surreal (''two skeletal gents catnap in the shape of question marks on top of the covers, their pink chenille bedspreads prudently turned down''), these are lives caught between tragedy and cartoon.
While there is necessarily a melancholic aspect to some of these stories (one can't, after all, deny the inevitability of death), there is also an upbeat wit that keeps the characters from self-pity and the tone from morbidity. Ms. Dodd, who teaches writing at Harvard University and who has written two novels and a previous collection of stories, has a real ear for the sounds of old age, for the almost vaudevillian routines people use as a shorthand for their experience of feeling pain and fear while being full of life and wit.
Jake, a florist, calls up his friend Phil, a mortician: '' 'You got any wakes tonight?'
 
'' 'Why?' Phil said. 'You available?'
'' 'You're no Myron Cohen in the comedian category,' Jake said. '' 'What do you want from an undertaker?' '' 'A straight answer, maybe?' '' The frequent references to music, brand names, television shows and movie stars remind us that ours is a society that fills the desires of a few, while constraining most of us to live small lives, make do and die without much preparation or help. One character, contemplating entering a retirement home, remarks, ''A real wiseacre, that Sinatra'' after hearing Old Blue Eyes croon ''I'll Get By.''
While Ms. Dodd's characters' lives lack heroic scope they are brave people whose gestures symbolize hope beyond the hopelessness of their situations. In ''Don't Get Around Much Anymore'' an unemployed father, a victim of Reaganomics, waters his lawn in defiance of a ban and gives his daughter travel brochures to encourage her dreams, while his wife spends her nights crocheting toilet-paper covers and watching reruns of television cop shows. ''This lawn's not going to hell,'' he says to his daughter. ''You got any objections?'' Challenging society and life as well as his daughter, he refuses to cave in even as his world erodes. And this, Ms. Dodd suggests, is the best response to the loss and fragmentation of one's world.
Like the people in the fiction of Ann Beattie and Raymond Carver, Ms. Dodd's characters manage to create and preserve something out of the pieces of their lives, and to establish connections with others. She urges us to see that behind the quiet facades of middle-class American houses beat hearts in need of succor, and hearts sometimes willing to give it. For many of her characters, it is only fear that threatens to keep them inarticulate or alone.
The woman in the collection's title story, ''Hell-Bent Men and Their Cities,'' for instance, tries to maintain a safe distance from men and life by retiring to the country. When she meets a man, a fellow guest at the home of mutual friends, ''fear masquerading as good manners prevented her from examining his belongings.'' Torn between the freedom to run away, which terrifies her, and the prospect of loving him, which also makes her want to run away, she is ''caught . . . pierced by the pinpoints of light in his eyes.''
Only a couple of the stories seem less than successful, and these are the ones in which Ms. Dodd sacrifices her sturdy characters for an experimental form that renders the world abstract and lifeless.
Finally, the heroes in Ms. Dodd's work are those who invent the words and gestures that convince others of their love. In ''Undeniably Sweet-Talk,'' one of her most joyful stories, the male character, with ''his soul . . . draped around his knees like underpants with shot elastic,'' builds a scale replica of their future house on his beloved's lawn to persuade her to love him. His declarations force the woman, for whom ''everything she knew had to fit on a three-by-five card,'' to learn about loving. As Susan Dodd's vision suggests, what we are about here on earth is decoding the language, revealing ourselves and being revealed by our experience so that we can come to terms with change and loss and preserve something from life - love - as evidence that we have lived.
 
REQUIEM FOR A BASSET HOUND
 It was the saddest damn thing I ever saw, that small pretty woman all alone out there with nobody to help her, burying her dog.
 I would have been glad to lend a hand, of course, once I realized what she was doing. But I had a feeling she needed to do it herself.
 She had a real struggle getting him out to the yard. Basset hounds are squat but heavy. He was stretched out on his side, stiff-legged already, on a fuzzy pink bath mat, the kind that's supposed to look like fur - if you can imagine pink fur. She slid him down the three steps from the back door. The way the carcass bumped down those steps made me grit my teeth. She was crazy about that dog. She dragged the mat across the grass toward the far corner of the house. Her eyes were closed. . . . The clock on the stove said a quarter to eight. I put the coffee on to perk. Then, very quietly, I went out the front door and circled around the north side to the back. From behind a bank of gone-by lilacs, I could see her. She'd already started digging.
 
From ''Hell-Bent Men and Their Cities.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HELL-BENT MEN AND THEIR CITIES (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: AGEE, JONIS; DODD, SUSAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



673 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 24, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: HOW TO ENCOURAGE NEW HERESIES

BYLINE: By MARCIA BARTUSIAK; Marcia Bartusiak, the author of ''Thursday's Universe,'' is writing a book about how astronomers discovered the composition of the heavens.

 BODY:

DISCOVERING
By Robert Scott Root-Bernstein.
Illustrated. 501 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press. $35.
Seeing that science, with its exponential growth, has blossomed a millionfold since the 1600's, why are we not witnessing a millionfold increase in the number of fundamental discoveries, Robert Scott Root-Bernstein wonders in ''Discovering.'' Scientific revolutions, the kinds of upheavals that dramatically alter our view of nature, spring up at a rather constant pace, he claims. Where are the thousands of Newtons, Darwins and Einsteins that should now be walking the earth? The modern publication explosion in science has arrived without a commensurate explosion in astounding revelations. Has science, in all its manifestations, now become so bureaucratic that it ends up sabotaging those who would discover? 
At the age of 27, Mr. Root-Bernstein, a biochemist and historian of science, received a MacArthur Prize in 1981. It enabled him to search for the blueprint to scientific discovery, a venture he believes is too unconventional to have won financing from customary sources. The 19th-century British biologist Thomas Huxley once noted that new truths in science often begin as heresy, advance to orthodoxy and end as superstition. Mr. Root-Bernstein considers how we can encourage new heresies, especially in the face of institutional grant systems that tend to fund exploration of the orthodoxies. Investigators confident of their own notions of how science is done will likely dismiss the book's approach as foolhardy and superficial. They will have a point: while refreshingly frank, Mr. Root-Bernstein has a chip on his shoulder, which makes it difficult to trust some of his assessments. Others, though, might judge the book as bold and imaginative, for it is far from the dry, scholarly tome one expects on such a subject.
Mr. Root-Bernstein unveils his propositions and counterarguments through the voices of six fictional professionals who take part in a colloquium on discovering that extends over six Saturday mornings. Ernest, a biologist and scientific gadfly, better known as Imp, is the instigator of the project. ''In matters intellectual he's like a child with a newfound toy,'' according to his wife, Jenny, a historian of French culture. Then there is Hunter, a down-to-earth chemist and history of science buff; Ariana, an endocrinologist, who as a photographer and amateur cellist brings her artistic predilections to the debate; Constance, a patent attorney and historian of science; and Richter, Imp's colleague, who serves as the resident curmudgeon and traditionalist. This group attempts to determine whether discoveries are inevitably unpredictable stumbles and sudden flashes of insight, as commonly assumed, or the result of reproducible methods or a bent of mind that might be taught and applied. They seek this elusive algorithm in the childhoods, educational backgrounds, correspondences, hobbies and laboratory notebooks of celebrated scientists.
Anecdotal evidence does suggest that certain creative habits can be acquired. J. J. Thomson, the discoverer of the electron and a recipient of the Nobel Prize in Physics, trained nine Nobel Prize winners, 32 fellows of Britain's Royal Society and 83 professors of physics. And Mr. Root-Bernstein marshals good arguments that many mythical chance discoveries were not lucky breaks at all, but more like unanticipated detours in well-designed research efforts. In this regard, ''Discovering'' is a good detective story. Take the case of Alexander Fleming. As the legend goes, a stray penicillium mold lands on a bacteria-filled petri dish in Fleming's laboratory. About to discard the dish, Fleming suddenly notices that the mold has dissolved the bacterial colonies. Voila! Antibiotics. But Imp deduces from circumstantial evidence that Fleming merely noticed at first the errant mold's mild antiseptic properties; only after deliberately culturing the mold did he clinch that the bacteria were being wiped out. ''Fleming clearly experimented with anything he could lay his hands on, wherever he found it,'' Imp points out. ''That was part of his research style. Playing.'' Good scientists seem to design experiments that will yield surprises; they foster the conditions. Examinations of a host of notable achievers in science show them to be broadly educated, with more than a passing interest in art, music, poetry and literature. Often making their mark in previously unfashionable or neglected areas of research, they retain a childlike curiosity about the world.
Does this book's fictional approach succeed? Yes and no; the device wears thin after a hundred pages. That the author has done his homework cannot be doubted. But the characters spew forth nuggets of wisdom in machine-gun fashion. Perhaps only Mr. Spock could carry this off with elan. Moreover, the reader can never really be sure where Mr. Root-Bernstein himself stands. Richter calls Freud a charlatan and relegates computer science to mere number crunching, apparently dismissing the seminal work of John von Neumann and Alan Turing. Are these the author's own thoughts, fanciful comments or opinions he has heard in the scientific community?
As a historian, he overromanticizes the lone scientist arriving at profound insights with third-rate equipment. ''The atom was split by Otto Hahn in 1938 using apparatus that fit on a desktop,'' it is noted, suggesting that the best science is nearly always this simple. More disturbing is the air of cynicism that pervades the book, evidently springing from Mr. Root-Bernstein's personal battles with ''Big Science.'' A running subplot, overly technical and incomprehensible to the nonspecialist, has Imp attacking molecular biology's most cherished dogmas; the footnotes reveal that Imp's challenge is based on the author's own biological research. From off-the-record comments I hear among researchers, the scientific bureaucracy indeed seems to need shaking up, but the author's digs at the workaday scientist may alienate the very audience he must persuade.
It is only in the last quarter of the book that Mr. Root-Bernstein convinces. Coherence finally replaces frantic fact-tossing. His findings are billed as controversial, but I do not find them as far removed as he does from past explorations of this issue. He presents an evolutionary model of scientific development: Ideas in science are selected or retained through a form of natural selection. As new species often arise in regions of geographical isolation, so too are many great discoveries made on the peripheries of science. A scientific revolution's ''paradigm shift'' (a concept introduced in 1962 by Thomas Kuhn in his ''Structure of Scientific Revolutions'') could then be viewed as the sudden emergence of the new species on the broad plain of science. All too short, this 25-page section should really be extended into a more standard work. Mr. Kuhn cannot be effectively challenged in a fictional setting.
The author concludes with a long list of prescriptions for encouraging discovery. He recommends no less than a complete overhaul of how science is funded and taught. Demolish the system of students marching lockstep through a succession of prerequisites, he says; the diversity necessary for scientific advancement is lost with such cloning. And fund people, not projects. Of course, this strategy raises many problems. How will grant givers differentiate between the self-deluded and a bona fide visionary? Someone in the end will have to make the decision, creating a whole new form of Big Science. Mr. Root-Bernstein is certainly not the first to make many of these statements on cultural evolution and the revamping of funding procedures, and he does credit his predecessors. What he adds is a cry of urgency: ''Could Darwin carry out his twenty-year program to restructure biology within the present academic system? . . . Would anyone read Einstein, publishing from a patent office? . . . I say that unless we start making provisions for such rare and valuable scientists now - for learning, thinking, and doing individually and eccentrically; for the disorganization of science - we'll have no great scientists in the future, and no great scientific breakthroughs, either.''
''Discovering'' is sometimes frustrating, chaotic and, in several places, obscure, but it is also surprising and thought-provoking. Perhaps it could be a much-needed catalyst for discussion. The odds are astronomical against one book's sundering the entire bureaucratic structure of science. But Mr. Root-Bernstein has lifted his hammer high to try for a good slam.
 
SO NOW WHAT HAPPENS?
 Let me make some predictions. . . . First, the great inventions and discoveries will take place in countries having expanding economies that support the institutional growth or reconfiguration necessary to accommodate mavericks. Second, these mavericks can be expected to be oddly trained hybrids combining old and new theories, data, and techniques. . . . Third, they will most likely be trained at new and peripheral institutions or they will work in newly emerging fields. . . . Fourth, cultures . . . that promote educational and ideological pluralism, intellectual freedom, and idiosyncratic behavior . . . will have a higher proportion of inventors and discoverers. . . . Fifth, the period preceding any great breakthrough in science will be characterized by the elaboration of a tremendous diversity of possible solutions. . . . Sixth, consensus will be found only in the codified fields of science in which little or no research is presently being done.
 
From ''Discovering.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DISCOVERING (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); HISTORY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (73%); LAWYERS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (60%); PATENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BARTUSIAK, MARCIA; ROOT-BERNSTEIN, ROBERT ALEXANDER FLEMING (81%); 



674 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 30, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Safety in Lower Numbers

BYLINE: By GLORIA DUFFY; Gloria Duffy's most recent book is ''Compliance and the Future of Arms Control.''

 BODY:

MEETING GORBACHEV'S CHALLENGE
How to Build Down the NATO-Warsaw Pact Confrontation.
By Jonathan Dean.
445 pp. New York: St. Martin's Press.
Cloth, $45. Paper, $16.95.
 
CONVENTIONAL ARMS CONTROL AND EAST-WEST SECURITY
Edited by Robert D. Blackwill and F. Stephen Larrabee.
491 pp. Durham, N.C.: Duke University Press. 
Cloth, $67.50. Paper, $19.95.
Since their December 1989 summit in Malta, Mikhail Gorbachev and George Bush have brought negotiations to control conventional military forces in Europe to the forefront of Soviet-American relations. At their meeting, the two leaders agreed to conclude a treaty limiting NATO and Warsaw Pact forces.
These two books review the issues the Soviet and American negotiators will have to address, offering recommendations about the scope of the talks in Vienna and the shape of the final pact. They present an interesting counterpoint.
Jonathan Dean was the Carter Administration's chief negotiator at the Mutual and Balanced Force Reduction talks. In session for nearly two decades, from October 1973 to February 1989, these earlier Vienna negotiations failed to yield an East-West conventional arms-control agreement. ''Meeting Gorbachev's Challenge'' is a rather urgent how-to manual for the current diplomats, drawing on Mr. Dean's own frustrating experience in search of a treaty, and exhorting his successors to make deep cuts in NATO and Warsaw Pact forces.
''Conventional Arms Control and East-West Security'' is a collection of essays by Western, Soviet and East European experts (including Mr. Dean). One of the editors, Robert D. Blackwill, is currently the senior National Security Council staff member responsible for Soviet and East European affairs, and among the key figures shaping the Bush Administration's positions for the Vienna talks. The other editor, F. Stephen Larrabee, is the vice president and director of studies of the Institute for East-West Security Studies, the organization that sponsored the volume. Together, in their introduction and conclusion, they exhibit a cautious, go-slow approach.
The main points of contention between Mr. Dean and most of the Western contributors to the volume of essays are what NATO's objectives in the Vienna talks ought to be, and how quickly the Western alliance should pursue significant reductions with the Warsaw Pact. At present, the Bush Administration seeks a decrease in Warsaw Pact forces to NATO levels in offensive weapons - primarily tanks, artillery and armored troop carriers. Then a small cut, of 5 or 10 percent, would be made on both sides. The Western contributors to the essays, drawn primarily from the Rand Corporation and European organizations such as the International Institute for Strategic Studies, generally support this approach.
These experts see the problems inherent in reaching an agreement more clearly than they see solutions. A key issue to be resolved before a treaty can be reached is the fate of NATO's forward defense strategy, if forces are to be pulled back on both sides of the frontier and cut significantly, thinning the NATO forces available to defend against an attack. Two Rand analysts, Edward L. Warner 3d and David A. Ochmanek, contend that the offensive forces targeted for reduction in the negotiations are so integral to NATO's defensive strategy that any reductions must be highly asymetrical, favoring NATO.
While the essays raise questions, Mr. Dean's book offers answers. He argues that the West should seek immediate 50 percent cuts in weapons and manpower on both sides, once the Warsaw Pact reduces to NATO levels. His rationales include the need to cut Western defense costs, and the shakiness of Mr. Gorbachev's position in his own country. The sense of a fleeting opportunity during the Soviet leader's tenure in office leads Mr. Dean to advise NATO leaders to obtain Warsaw Pact cuts while they can.
Mr. Dean has very detailed objectives for the Vienna talks. In addition to the 50 percent cuts, he advocates a zone free of offensive forces along the Central European front. The remaining forces would be restructured for ''non-offensive defense,'' preventing either side from fielding enough offensive forces to prevail over the defensive strength of its adversary. Mr. Dean argues that NATO's forward defense can be retained even with 50 percent cuts by maintaining rapidly movable armored divisions as an operational reserve.
The primary reason the interminable Mutual and Balanced Force Reduction negotiations in Vienna never progressed was the lack of high-level political pressure on both sides. In Mr. Dean's call for an ambitious initial agreement, one detects the frustrated former negotiator, who sees the attention of political leaders finally focused on the problem of conventional forces in Europe and is anxious that the opportunity be seized before their attention drifts away.
The rapid democratization of Eastern Europe, and Mr. Gorbachev's encouragement of this trend, support Mr. Dean's proposal for deep cuts. It is increasingly difficult to conceive of an issue that would provoke a NATO-Warsaw Pact confrontation in Europe. In this light, the size of the NATO and Warsaw Pact armies is increasingly out of proportion to the threat of war.
Indeed, the extraordinary debate about military forces and strategy taking place within the Warsaw Pact today is more interesting than the discussions among Westerners about the talks on conventional forces. Ten essays by Soviet and East European analysts in ''Conventional Arms Control and East-West Security'' open a window into this debate. The arguments that such leading experts as Andrei A. Kokoshin and Alexei G. Arbatov are raising in Moscow in support of reducing and restructuring Soviet conventional forces are presented here, including Mr. Kokoshin's suggestive historical analysis of how Soviet defensive tactics succeeded in the Battle of Kursk during World War II. The way in which these civilian analysts are shaping the debate over military forces in Moscow - and reshaping Soviet defense policy - is yet one more aspect of the intellectual ferment within the Soviet Union that is currently changing the course of world events.

GRAPHIC: Photo: NATO troops on maneuvers in Turkey. (Reuters/Fatih Saribas)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MEETING GORBACHEV'S CHALLENGE (BOOK); CONVENTIONAL ARMS CONTROL AND EAST-WEST SECUR

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); MALTA (72%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); 

CITY: DURHAM, NC, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); 

PERSON: DUFFY, GLORIA; DEAN, JONATHAN; BLACKWILL, ROBERT D; BLACKWILL, ROBERT D; LARRABEE, F STEPHEN GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



675 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 13, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: About Cars;
Justy Is a Quality, High-Tech Econocar

BYLINE: By Marshall Schuon

 BODY:
When you spend a lot of money for a car, certain things are to be expected. You get fancy trim, maybe leather. You get performance. And, generally, you get high-tech electronics and mechanical doodads.
When you spend a pittance, as we all know, you get none of these things. 
But we are all sometimes wrong, too, as in the case of Subaru's minicar, the Justy, whose econocar persona carries some very exotic technology indeed.
The Justy was introduced as a two-door hatchback in 1987 and revamped for 1989 to house America's only constantly variable transmission, known as a CVT, or, in the electronically controlled Subaru version, as an ECVT.
The idea goes back to the late 1800's and is a neat one, transmitting power through a belt that rides on variable-diameter pulleys. The advantages are compact size, few moving parts, low weight and an infinite variety of ratios to perfectly match vehicle loads to engine speeds, all without shifting gears.
Years of experimentation meant little, though, in the absence of other highly advanced technology, and as with so many things, it is the computer that has made the CVT a practical invention.
Subaru, produced by Fuji Heavy Industries of Japan, came to the United States in the 70's and has long been something of a technological maverick, what with pancake-flat engines, hill-holder manual transmissions to prevent the vehicles from rolling backward on an incline, and the first passenger cars to sport four-wheel drive.
For 1990, Justy also has been given optional all-wheel drive, which means that Subaru is the only company to offer both front-wheel and four-wheel drive versions of every car it sells. This year, Justy also adds a four-door to its line, as well as a ''Fun Justy'' that takes aim at the younger subcompact buyer.
Fuel injection now feeds gas to the three-cylinder engine, eliminating cold-start and driveability problems and reducing exhaust emissions as a nice side benefit. Power is up by more than 10 percent, and while there are still only 73 horses under the hood, the tiny engine is one of the few that puts out one or more horsepower per cubic inch.
Actual displacement measures 1.2 liters, and the engine takes fuel in genteel sips. Depending on the model, the transmission and whether the car has front-wheel or four-wheel drive, the mileage figures range from 29, city, to 37, highway.
With only three cylinders, the Justy is a long way from being a hotrod, but it is reasonably competent on the road. Larger wheels and tires were part of last year's re-do, and the car is no longer bouncy or skittish.
There are bucket seats up front, and interior room has been increased. Still, the Justy is only 12 feet long, and that makes it perfect for city driving, while the added power makes it usable, if not ideal, for trips.
Fully dressed, the car weighs only 2,090 pounds, and acceleration from 0 to 60 m.p.h. takes about 12 seconds with the standard five-speed transmission. The ECVT is about a second slower, but the trip is interesting.
The difference between a transmission with gears and an ECVT without them is like the difference between a three-way light switch and one with a dimmer control. The constantly variable transmission uses stepless ratio changes and there is a smooth and uninterrupted flow of power.
To work its magic, the transmission uses a pair of pulleys and a metal belt that runs in the valley of each pulley. One flange of each pulley is anchored to its hub, but the other slides in and out, expanding and narrowing the V, thus moving the belt up and down to alter the drive ratios. Hydraulics, controlled by a computer, move the flanges.
Perhaps even more amazing is the magnetic-powder clutch that connects the ECVT to the engine. It consists of a drum that is bolted to the engine's crankshaft and that houses a rotor and a cargo of fine steel powder. The rotor is connected to the ECVT. A magnetic coil is mounted on the drum, and when it is activated by a computer the magnetism solidifies the powder, locking drum and rotor together. Demagnetized, the powder is once more just dust, and the rotor is free to spin. When a driver presses the accelerator, the clutch locks up. When the car slows to a halt, the clutch disengages. Simple, what?
The ECVT option adds $540 to the Justy's base sticker of $5,866. Four-wheel drive costs another $700, and air-conditioning is the other big-ticket item at $750. So you can figure that a loaded four-door will roll out of the dealership for about $9,300.
These days, that is what we mean when we talk pittance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7270 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUBARU OF AMERICA INC

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); EMISSIONS (62%); 

PERSON: SCHUON, MARSHALL MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 



676 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2402 words

HEADLINE: Buyers Hang Back in Muddled Market

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
A TWO-YEAR slump in property values has pushed down home prices in the New York region and mortgage interest rates also have fallen, but the reductions show little sign of attracting the huge numbers of buyers who were locked out of the region's giddy real estate market in the mid-80's.
Economists point to one main reason, demonstrated in several recent studies: Prices remain sky high compared to the incomes of most New York area residents. That price-income gap puts homeownership, or a move up to a better home, out of reach.
The price and interest-rate drops are being offset by higher taxes and insurance costs. And in a region that is already one of the nation's most expensive, other bills paid by both owners and renters, including those for fuel and utilities, are forcing people to reach deeper into their pockets. 
Nor have income and employment gains kept pace with the rising household expenses.
''It is not that the economy is falling apart, but the important missing element is the kind of economic expansion we had,'' said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the New York Regional Commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. In contrast to the mid-80's, when New York City and its suburbs were gaining 150,000 new jobs a year, the growth has slowed to 50,000, he said, adding: ''That kind of slowdown is bound to have an impact on housing demand.''
The result is a confused, contradictory and frustrating housing market that confounds expectations. Ordinarily, when house prices and loan rates fall, sales rebound. But most households are facing rising costs, families hoping to move up are struggling to find buyers for their current residences and the feverish boom atmosphere of the mid-80's has segued into a cold new environment.
It is a market with signposts pointing in several directions, giving pause to both sellers and buyers, and many are choosing to postpone decisions until the picture clears. If there is a watchword in the market, it seems to be ''hesitate.''
Adding to the confusion are brisk sales at some new developments and sales so weak at others that their builders are offering the units for rent.
''IF you bought a house at the end of 1987 you might feel like this market is the end of the world,'' said Rosemary Scanlon, chief economist for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which reported the median house price in the region hit a peak of $196,000 in 1988 and has since fallen 7 percent, to $182,400, but still too high for those who might consider buying their first home. ''Affordability just hasn't gotten much better,'' she said. Indeed, the median family income of people living in New York City and its suburbs - $30,867 - is less than half the $63,020 required by most lenders to qualify for the mortgage on the region's median-price house - even after making a 20 percent down payment, according to the National Association of Realtors, a trade group.
The real estate slump is being aggravated by the changing psychology among those who might buy a house, even those who can afford the high prices of the New York region. Many of them, young professionals in their 20's and 30's who had watched home values soar for a decade, have adopted a skeptical view of future gains.
''Buying into this market is a real gamble,'' said Scott Fortini, a marketing manager at Guiness Brands who was transferred from southern Florida to the company's headquarters in Stamford, Conn., in November. He received approval early this month for a mortgage loan to buy a $220,000 town-house condominium in Brookfield, Conn., but, having spent more than two months in the New York region, has decided not to buy. ''It will be safer to rent for a while,'' he said. To be sure, lower interest rates are providing a strong incentive to some buyers. Fixed-rate, 30-year mortgages are widely available at slightly under 10 percent, down from 11 percent a year ago.
''We have probably hit bottom or come close to it,'' in housing demand and prices, said Rae Rosen, an economist for the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. She added that the one-percentage-point decline in interest rates means that the buyer of a $185,000 home, close to the median price in the New York region, would now pay $100 a month less in mortgage payments than a year ago.
Ms. Rosen added, however, that a recovery from the real estate slump ''will be long and slow.''
Business executives have maintained for years that a period of flat or declining home prices would be needed to encourage long-term economic growth. Large employers complain of the difficulty of transferring executives into the region because its home prices are too high, and many of the suburbs face an acute shortage of lower-paid support personnel who cannot afford to buy or rent anywhere near office centers.
''Housing costs are still an issue, but we see reasons for optimism in this market,'' said John Raffaeli, general manager for compensation for the Continental Can Corporation, based in Norwalk, Conn.
Continental Can now finds it somewhat easier to persuade executives to transfer to the Norwalk headquarters from other offices around the country, he said. Secretaries, computer programmers and others already stationed in Norwalk are also likely to benefit from the weak housing market, he added, particularly if they are able to buy cut-rate homes in a state program, announced in December, in which Connecticut plans to purchase unsold condominiums and offer them to low- and middle-income families.
And in a region where far more people rent - and pay much higher rental bills - than in most other parts of the of the nation, most experts maintain there remains a large reservoir of potential buyers. Most rental bills have been gradually rising, creating more incentive to buy among those who can afford it.
SOME developers report robust sales of new homes and apartments, despite the sluggishness that pervades most of the region. In Floral Park, Queens, 72 percent of the apartments in Parkwood Estates have been sold since the building was converted to cooperative ownership from rentals in June, according to Blare Realty, sponsor of the conversion. Prices in the project are below those of most new New York City cooperatives, beginning at $86,000 for a one-bedroom apartment.
In Manhattan, the developers of the Coronado, a new condominium at 71st Street and Broadway, said 49 of the 120 apartments had been sold since their sales office opened late in September. Prices there are more typical of fashionable new Manhattan properties, beginning at $175,000 for a studio and at over $700,000 for some larger apartments.
And in Stamford, the developer of 12 new detached homes, Warwick Malkin, said half had been sold since they were completed in January 1989. Homes in the project, Sterling Lake, begin at $620,000.
Still, according to economists, real estate executives and frustrated sellers, the New York area market remains in a slump.
In Brooklyn, where housing demand and prices in Brooklyn Heights, Cobble Hill, Park Slope and some other neighborhoods were buoyed by booming business on Wall Street during the mid-80's, hopeful sellers now must contend with the impact of reduced wages and thousands of layoffs at banks and securities firms.
''We have a market that doesn't exist,'' said Carl Peek, owner of Prudential-Carl Peek Real Estate, which deals in the Brooklyn neighborhoods. ''Everybody is trying to will this market to turn, but things won't change, even with lower interest rates, until people realize they are dealing with a different set of numbers.''
And even in the market for high-priced Manhattan homes, many would-be buyers have retreated to the sidelines after concluding that the only apartment worth considering is one they can negotiate down to a fire-sale price.
''The only people buying now are the ones who have convinced themselves they are getting a steal,'' said Barbara Corcoran, the principal in the Corcoran Group, which deals in expensive Manhattan co-op apartments and condominiums. In an analysis of sales of 297 apartments in December, she said prices had been negotiated down from what the sellers asked by an average of 17 percent, compared to reductions of 4 percent a year earlier.
The National Association of Realtors said the affordability ''index'' has changed little in the New York region. The only metropolitan areas in its study that were less affordable were San Francisco, where the median family income was $43,815 and the median price of a home had soared to $269,400, and Los Angeles, where the median family income is $36,558 and the median home price had risen to $224,600. In both California cities, people making the median family income have even less of a chance of qualifying for a mortgage on a median-priced home than those in the New York region, it said.
In contrast, the study found that in and around most major cities - Washington, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Miami, Cleveland and Detroit among them - median incomes were more than enough to qualify for median-priced homes.
A STUDY by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey of prices in New York City, southern Westchester, northern New Jersey and Long Island showed how the market boomed earlier in the decade and has stumbled since early 1988. Beginning in 1983, when the median price of a home in the area was slightly over $80,000, prices surged 15 to 30 percent a year until 1987, when increases slowed sharply. By the end of 1988, values had started to sink, it said, declining 5 percent by the end of 1989.
In contrast, the nationwide median price of a home - $95,000 last year - has been rising steadily, but far more gradually, since 1983. It remains less than half the median price in the New York region, the study showed.
The cost of renting an apartment or house in the New York region, while going through far less volatile swings than the price of home ownership, has been steadily rising in most cases. The Bureau of Labor Statistics, which surveys households on changes in consumer prices - including the cost of shelter - said a typical renter in New York and Northern New Jersey paid 6.5 percent more at the end of November than a year earlier.
In New York City, where more 800,000 apartments are rent stabilized, most rent increases have been slightly lower - currently 5.5 percent on one-year leases and 9 percent on two-year leases.
In setting the limits on rent increases, the city's Rent Guidelines Board analyzes operating costs paid by landlords. It found that for the fiscal year ended last April 30 operating costs rose 6.7 percent, with the cost of taxes, fees and permits a major culprit, rising 15.8 percent, and utility bills up 12.4 percent. The year earlier, the board found overall costs up 6.4 percent, with fuel prices leading the way, rising 12.6 percent.
Despite the increased costs of landlords, however, rents for many better apartments in Manhattan have declined, even on apartments where slight increases would be allowed under stabilization laws, as landlords have sharpened their competition for tenants.
A survey of Manhattan rentals by Nancy Packes, president of Feathered Nest, a rental agency, found that almost all rents on studio apartments that were turned over to new tenants by her agency in 1989 had lower rents than in 1988, and that the reductions occurred in both rent-stabilized and nonstabilized buildings.
Some of the larger apartments analyzed by Ms. Packes also had slight declines in rents, while others increased.
Examples from her survey included stabilized one-bedroom apartments in Upper West Side buildings without doormen, which had an average rent of $1,400 in 1989, down from $1,575 in 1988; market-rate two-bedroom apartments in East Side buildings with doormen, which averaged $3,600 a month in 1989, up from $3,150 in 1988, and stabilized three-bedroom apartments in Upper West Side buildings without doormen, which averaged $3,175 a month in 1989, down from $3,275 a month in 1988.
For those considering buying, the shifts in housing prices present a predicament. Some have concluded that the real estate downturn has created a long-awaited opportunity to buy while others are put off committing themselves in a market that shows no immediate sign of turning up.
''You can get caught in a bind,'' said Andy Helsand, a 33-year-old Manhattan lawyer who has bought a one-bedroom apartment in the East 60's for $200,000. Recently married, and living in the cramped quarters of a nearby studio, he and his wife plan to move into the new apartment this month.
BUT Mr. Helsand is not a first-time homeowner, and like thousands of others in the New York region, he has found that putting a home up for sale can be a frustrating experience. His studio, first advertised for sale last July, still hasn't sold, so he is now planning to rent it out to cover his costs.
''In this market you may be winning when you buy but getting killed when you sell,'' he said, adding that even though several people came to the open houses he had advertised to sell his studio, ''nobody seemed serious - it was like they were just out for a walk on a Sunday afternoon.''
Mr. Fortini, the marketing manager in Stamford, said he had started his search for a home in November fully aware that the market was weak, and seeking a bargain. ''I was looking for a real distressed situation,'' he said.
He found it in High Meadow, a small complex of new condominium town houses in Brookfield that had been taken over from its developer in a bank foreclosure. Although the bank had not discounted the asking prices in the complex, Mr. Fortini said it was offering something almost as appealing - financing far below market rates, with a mortgage guaranteed at 4.9 percent interest for seven years.
Still, he said, he and his wife, Kelly, do not savor the prospect of living indefinitely in a two-bedroom town house 40 miles from his office and planned to move on to another home in two to four years. Since applying for his mortgage two months ago, he said, he has given much thought to what would happen if the current slump in the market lasts much further into the 1990's.
''Everybody is second-guessing this market, me among them,'' Mr. Fortini said. ''At the moment, my best guess is that if one doesn't plan to stay in a house for five years or more, it is not worth the risk.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 1); graph of median prices of single-family resale homes in New York region, 1982-1989 (Source: National Association of Realtors; Port Authority of New York and New Jersey); graph compares median house prices with income needed to buy median priced house in various U.S. cities (Source: National Association of Realtors) (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (61%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (61%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PROPERTY TAXES; MORTGAGES; INTEREST (MONEY); PRICES REAL ESTATE (93%); HOME PRICES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); FAMILY (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); STATISTICS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); CITIES (65%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J



677 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2049 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES: Cooperative Conversions;
The Problems of Sponsors and Owners

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
CLOUDS have begun to drift over the market for those co-ops and condominiums in which conversion sponsors still own large numbers of apartments occupied by rent-regulated tenants.
Reports that some co-ops have had to raise maintenance charges sharply to cover monthly payments not made by sponsors are worrying both shareholders and prospective buyers, and the concerns are growing. But so far the extent of the delinquencies is unclear. Are the problems likely to affect the sponsors alone, or will they also create serious difficulties for the buildings and their owner-occupants? Can these problems be worked out by the co-ops themselves and their lenders? And are there weaknesses in the rules governing the conversion process itself that need correction by law or regulation?
Fifteen years ago, during a real estate recession in New York City, the noneviction conversion system emerged as an ingenious method of allowing rental buildings to be sold to co-op corporations without disturbing the long-term residency rights of regulated renters. The buildings would become ''true'' co-ops over time - with genuine control by the residents in occupancy - as the regulated apartments were vacated and sold. 
The system was designed to avoid the anguish and antagonisms then prevalent in the conversion process, when people who refused to buy were threatened with eventual eviction. Noneviction conversions seemed to offer the best hope of gradually putting much of New York City's crippled rent-regulated housing stock on a sound long-term basis. In the rising market of the 80's, it worked beyond expectations.
Not only did individual unit buyers profit by taking advantage of the spread between the rent-regulated value of space and its true market value, but professional converters came into the picture to do so on a mass basis. But then came the Tax Reform Act of 1986, which shrank the sponsors' market for the shares representing renter-occupied apartments. On top of that came the general slowdown in the housing market in the late 80's.
There now appear to be about 139,500 owner-occupied apartments in New York City in 3,838 buildings that had converted from rental status by last fall. Most of the buildings were converted under noneviction plans. In many, conversion sponsors hold only a small number of apartments or none at all.
The concern of Frederick K. Mehlman, assistant attorney general in charge of the Real Estate Financing Bureau, is that there may be problems in buildings that were converted fairly recently, and particularly in those where the sponsors still own the vast majority of apartments and there is a large gap between the payments they receive as rent and what they must pay the co-op for maintenance.
''I don't know how bad the problem is,'' he said last week. ''It's premature to call this a crisis.'' He said he had 40 pending investigations of complaints of sponsor delinquencies in co-op or condominium buildings in New York City.
It was the filing by Time Equities, a major conversion organization, of a change in the financial position of its principal, Francis Greenburger, that set off the tremors in the marketplace.
Mr. Greenburger has interests in about 50 buildings in New York City. No complaints have been received that his payments to cooperative corporations or condominium associations are not current, Mr. Mehlman said.
IN some cases, Time Equities owns only a small number of shares in the buildings. At the condominium at 302 West 12th Street, for example, only 16 of the 129 residential units are in the hands of the West Village Equities Group, an entity that is 80-percent owned by Mr. Greenburger.
At another building, 1045 Park Avenue, the sponsor, also an entity 80 percent owned by Mr. Greenburger, owns only two of 41 apartments.
Buildings with such a small proportion of sponsor-owned shares should be immune from whatever problems may beset others. Even where sponsors own most of the shares, there are not necessarily problems. In many properties, the sponsor has an institutional partner with the strength to ride out slow markets. In condominium buildings, managements do not have to worry about collecting funds to repay an underlying mortgage.
What Time Equities appears to have done is to make a disclosure of a ''change in financial condition'' that it considered to be required by law, even though the problems have not affected the carrying charges due to the buildings in which it owns apartments.
In the past, some sponsors experiencing financial difficulties have managed to sell their renter-occupied apartments to new investors. It is unclear whether, prior to these sales, amendments were filed by the sponsors to report a ''material change in financial condition.'' The sales may have forestalled such problems, or they may have been simple business decisions. Some lawyers say that disclosure filings were not considered necessary until ownership actually changed hands.
For example, conversion practitioners say that Robert Shapiro, now a home builder on Long Island, divested himself of his interest in as many as 50 properties to other partners. D. B. G. Property Investors, at one time an active conversion sponsor in New York City and elsewhere, similarly is reported to have sold its interests in at least six Manhattan buildings after the 1986 tax act undermined the syndication and resale of unsold apartments.
Efforts to obtain comments from the principals in the sales were unsuccessful.
IN the widely publicized case of Gerald Guterman, a converter who lost his interest in several major properties in a bankruptcy filing, lenders took over payments to co-ops or condominium associations.
In any event, last month, after the receipt of the Time Equities filing on a change in financial condition, Mr. Mehlman sent lawyers active in the conversion field a letter reminding them that they must disclose any ''material change'' in a sponsor's financial condition. Accordingly, sponsors now may feel obliged to file statements before transactions are completed.
The sponsors' sales of renter-occupied apartments have typically been to other converters and investors who are able to wait out the market until the apartments become vacant and their value can be realized in a sale. In some cases banks that had made loans on the occupied units have taken over the shares. Payments to co-op corporations and condominium associations have continued.
But in other recent cases, co-op boards have reported delinquencies. On paper, the boards of the co-ops have strong legal recourses. They can seize the rent payments being made to a sponsor. And their claims to the shares of sponsor-held apartments take precedence over the claims of a bank that has lent money to the sponsor based on the value of the shares.
But this is not to underestimate the plight of shareholders living in a building mostly occupied by regulated renters, where the sponsor owning those apartments is falling behind on maintenance payments to the corporation, where owner-occupants are weakly represented on the board, and where it appears that legal action may have to be taken to enforce the shareholders' rights and interests.
Enforcing those rights and protecting those interests may take time, may be costly and may require at least temporary increases in monthly costs or special assessments. And while a legal battle is proceding, apartment values may fall and owners who want to move may not be able to sell without loss.
Sometimes, in these situations, the Attorney General's office itself has asked banks and other lenders to step in. Their role in assuring that sponsor obligations to the co-op are met can be crucial.
In the 70's, some co-op corporations themselves became the purchasers of unsold shares, at prices that turned out to be bargains. Over time they were able to resell the apartments after they had been vacated, and ease the maintenance budgets for their shareholders.
For the future, Attorney General Robert Abrams last week announced legislative proposals designed to strengthen owner-occupants' position in newly converted co-ops. Even without new legislation, some co-op lawyers say, Mr. Abrams can strengthen regulations to protect shareholders.
Far greater disclosure of the financial position of sponsors could be required, with periodic updating. There could be more information in the offering about the business background of conversion sponsors. This information is usually extremely limited.
Sponsors could also be obliged to state whether they were putting money in escrow to assure maintenance payments on the sponsor-held, renter-occupied apartments.
Computerized records of the Attorney General on buildings and units converted, matched against the Rent Stabilization Association's data on regulated apartments, show there still is a long way to go before shareholders replace renters and fully occupy converted buildings. There are about 131,400 rent-regulated households still living in converted buildings in the city. Of the total, 50,000 are in Manhattan.
But of 117,100 apartments in converted Manhattan buildings, it appears that 67,000 have been sold, primarily for owner-occupancy. In Queens, where 76,900 apartments have been converted, there have been about 39,900 purchases.
To continue successfully, the conversion system will have to demonstrate that it can protect the interests of shareholders in a slow market as well as in a strong one.
 
CHANGES SOUGHT IN CONVERSION LAWS
THE New York State Attorney General last week called upon the Legislature to enact a series of changes in the laws affecting conversions of rental property to co-ops or condominiums and said that he was studying still others.
Some have been proposed for years, but generally have been caught up in broader disputes between the housing committees of the Assembly and the Senate and have failed to pass.
Once again Robert Abrams, the Attorney General, is proposing that to obtain a noneviction conversion - in which nonbuying renters are entitled to stay on as renters after conversion - a sponsor be required to obtain 25 percent, rather than the current 15 percent, of tenant purchasers. ''This would avoid the creation of sham co-ops that have no significant involvement by interested on-premises owners,'' the Attorney General said.
Another change would allow sponsors to utilize only 5 percent of vacant apartments, instead of the current 10 percent, toward meeting the minimum purchasing requirement for conversion. By manipulating vacancies under current law, the Attorney General says, sponsors often can convert a building without selling to even one tenant.
The following other proposals are under study:
* Requiring that a sponsor provide some form of financial security sufficient to cover its financial obligations for a certain period of time after a building is converted.
* Increasing the guaranteed net worth a sponsor must demonstrate before undertaking a conversion. The current level of $5,000 has not been raised since 1963, Mr. Abrams said.
* Requiring that if a sponsor defaults on maintenance payments for units it owns, the rents from nonpurchasing tenants living in the apartments be paid directly to the co-op corporation or condominium association, not to the sponsor.
* Shortening the time period in which sponsors may continue to control co-op or condominium boards. The current period in a noneviction conversion is five years after the conversion date, or after the sponsor sells 50 percent of the shares (or units, in a condominium), whichever comes sooner. Also, requiring that every board include a member who is independent of the sponsor, even if the sponsor owns a majority of the shares.
* Authorizing the Attorney General to reject amendments to offering plans aimed at substantially reducing or altering any terms of the plan. Examples are amendments that increase the size of a building's mortgage, or cancel a promised improvement, the Attorney General said.
The object would be to limit the ability of sponsors unilaterally to increase the financial burden on shareholders after they have purchased. Some courts have held that under current rules such amendments must be accepted.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frederick K. Mehlman, assistant attorney general in charge of the Real Estate Financing Bureau (The New York Times/David Jennings); table showing number and status of condominium and co-op conversions in New York city, by borough, through Fall 1989 (Source: New York State Attorney General and Rent Stabilization Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); EVICTION (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (69%); TAX REFORM (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S FRANCIS GREENBURGER (71%); 



678 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 10, Column 6; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Harlem Rehab

 BODY:
To the Editor:
A Posting on Jan. 7 headed ''5 Renovations for Harlem'' was fundamentally inaccurate.
The article implies that the Ziegelman Organization and Harwin Corporation have received a sizable Participation Loan from the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development to undertake the renovation of five privately owned properties in West harlem. The fact is, they have never applied for any such loan or even engaged in preliminary discussions on this matter with H.P.D.
The agency's Participation Loan Program allows owners to upgrade properties by providing low-interest loans for the moderate rehabilitation of multifamily rental properties. These loans assist both tenants and owners in that the useful life of a building can be prolonged for years without burdening the property with unmanageable debt.
It is not the intention of the program to enable rental units to be converted to market-rate co-ops and condos. While the Ziegelman-Harwin joint venture may very well be intending to begin rehab work soon, it will not be done with a Participation Loan.
 
FELICE MICHETTI
 Manhattan
 
The writer is Acting Commissioner of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ZIEGELMAN ORGANIZATION (78%); HARWIN CORP (78%); NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING PRESERVATION&DEVELOPMENT (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZIEGELMAN ORGANIZATION; HARWIN CORP; HOUSING PRESERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HARLEM (NYC)

SUBJECT: RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); WRITERS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: MICHETTI, FELICE



679 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: IN THE REGION: Connecticut and Westchester;
A $20 Million Center on the Housatonic

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
AFTER the B. F. Goodrich Company plant in Shelton was firebombed in an insurance fraud scheme 15 years ago, the company decided not to reopen its Connecticut operation and 4,500 jobs were lost. An already weak economy looked as if it might die until local officials worked to create a new and different Shelton, competitive with the rest of Fairfield County.
Since 1977, more than 5 million square feet of office space has been built, housing 125 corporations, many of whose employees live in the 3,000 condominiums constructed to accommodate them.
But Shelton's success was somewhat dimmed by boredom. The only movie theater, showing pornographic films, was closed in the early 80's, and humdrum shopping along Howe Avenue was not what new residents were accustomed to. 
In stepped Edward Fantegrossi, a Boston teacher-turned-developer, with a plan for a $20 million retail center on 8.8 acres overlooking the Housatonic River and similar in concept to the South Street Seaport in Manhattan and Quincy Market in Boston. He paid $3.2 million for the property last October, named it Mariah's Way after the song with the line, ''they call the wind Maria,'' and took an option on another 21 acres north and south of it.
The proposal was approved by the city and construction is expected to begin this spring for an April 1991 opening. The land purchase was financed by the Mechanics and Farmers Bank in Bridgeport and construction loans are being negotiated privately. Do H. Chung & Partners of Stamford are the architects.
''I felt this would be a recession-proof form of development,'' said Mr. Fantegrossi. His research showed that growth in the city left it shy of 2,000 restaurant seats at lunchtime, and that the nearest specialty shopping was at the Trumbull Mall 15 miles to the southwest.
He plans to build about 35 shops and 10 restaurants in five buildings stretching from River Road to the Housatonic. A circular building will have a food court and a 10,000-square-foot pavilion on the second floor for free weekend entertainment by mimes, musicians, dancers, artists and storytellers.
Looking at Quincy Market and the South Street Seaport, both of which are larger than the planned Shelton development, Mr. Fantegrossi concluded that ''entertainment attracts people who shop, and retail brings in people who enjoy entertainment.''
During the week the pavilion will be used for events like aerobics classes, civic displays, corporate and community meetings, educational programs and chamber music concerts, all managed by We Associates, the Fantegrossi company based in Southport.
An ice-skating rink will be built opposite the pavilion. Visitors arriving by boat may tie up one of 35 moorings and use launches along a 600-foot boardwalk.
''It's the first project of its kind on our riverfront,'' said Mayor Michael Pacowta. In earlier times, Naugatuck Valley riverfronts were dominated by brick factories, several of which still stand in Shelton, candidates for conversion to condominiums and offices.
''MARIAH'S WAY puts a positive complexion on an area that has received a black eye - the landfill adjacent to it,'' said the Mayor, referring to a 110-acre, 145-foot-high mountain of garbage covered with residual ash from the Connecticut Resource Recovery Agency's waste-to-energy process. ''We are in court with the State Department of Environmental Protection in an effort to prevent expansion of the site.''
The landfill is a charcoal-gray cone with young pine trees planted at intervals up and down its sides.
''The C.R.R.A. is required by the state's Coastal Management Plan to come up with innovative landscaping and public uses for the site,'' said John England, environmental analyst for the environmental agency's waste bureau in Hartford.
Mr. Fantegrossi, the city and the recovery agency have been cooperating in what they believe is the first attempt to transform a landfill into a public site.
Jogging and hiking trails will be built and educational kiosks will be installed on the landfill when dumping stops there in about four years. Until then the department wants to allow the landfill to grow two more acres in width and 170 feet in height, Mr. England said. The recovery agency can sell the site afterward, but the owner must maintain it as a landscaped public place and test it for leaching and erosion.
''I WOULDN'T rule out the sale and profitable use of its waterfront and lagoon as a marina,'' said Mr. England, ''and the view from the top is spectacular.''
Expansion of Mariah's Way to 500,000 square feet on 30 acres will depend upon how well the complex fares. Its location is rural, minutes from office and research parks and condominiums.
Barely five miles from downtown, it is also close to a new Residence Inn, a Ramada Inn under construction and a Sheraton to be built next year.
James E. Ryan, executive director of the Shelton Economic Development Corporation, a private nonprofit group formed in 1983, said:
''We do not feel that the Fantegrossi project will threaten our downtown area. The current weak mix of retail needs to be bolstered by a downtown residential population.'' To that end the city has approved the old Goodrich site of 7.5 acres for 320 condominiums overlooking the river in two buildings of about 10 stories. A developer is being sought for the project.
The property is on the market for $1 million an acre, said Elaine Liberto, director of development for the city. While local construction has slowed, approvals have already been granted for the construction of another 3 million square feet of offices, according to Ms. Liberto. ''We are still getting applications from developers,'' she added. Shelton will never go back to full-scale manufacturing. Even small companies wanting to come in now cannot find suitable space.
''We have 31 percent of the state's labor pool within a radius of 15 miles,'' said Ms. Liberto. ''What we need is manufacturing buildings under 60,000 square feet.''

GRAPHIC: Rendering of Mariah's Way, a $20 million, 8.8-acre retail center planned on the Housatonic River in Shelton. Construction is to begin in the spring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GR (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (91%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (91%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: GOODRICH CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOUSATONIC RIVER; SHELDON (CONN); MARIAH'S WAY (SHELDON, CONN)

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE LAYOFFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (87%); INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE FRAUD (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); FILM (75%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (74%); RETAILERS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); HARBORS & PORTS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (61%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (61%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (60%); DANCERS (60%); PORNOGRAPHY (55%); WINTER SPORTS (50%); ICE SKATING (50%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR; FANTEGROSSI, EDWARD DAVID DAVIS (57%); 



680 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 25, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: When Takeout Is Quail And Rack of Lamb

BYLINE: By PATRICIA BROOKS

 BODY:
FOR many commuters constant travel means tedium and exhaustion. But for Patty Cassidy of Greenwich, a long train ride led to a new business.
There were many nights, Mrs. Cassidy said, when she would get off the train and ''crave a good meal, not just a fast-food takeout.'' But Mrs. Cassidy, who commuted two or three times a week to Washington in her job at National Geographic, would be too tired to dress up and go out to a restaurant like Jean-Louis or Bertrand, both in Greenwich. 
Her husband, James, also traveled to Washington several times a week for his government-relations job at U.S.T., a Greenwich producer of smokeless tobacco and wine. ''We thought,'' she said, ''wouldn't it be nice if we could eat some of that terrific restaurant food at home? And that's how the idea evolved.''
The idea became Butler's Tray, Mrs. Cassidy's 10-month-old food-delivery service, which combines the pleasure of dining at a fine restaurant with the comforts of eating at home.
Customers who call Butler's Tray order dinner from a brochure that lists the menus of 11 participating restaurants in Greenwich. The order is faxed to the restaurant and within a specified time a uniformed Butler's Tray driver collects the meal from the restaurant in a large heat-retaining container and delivers it to the customer. Each item is packed in a container that can go into the microwave.
Butler's Tray began with three restaurants, Jean-Louis, Bertrand and La Maison Indochine. Mrs. Cassidy, 27 years old, solicited her first customers by having a brochure inserted in newspapers sold to commuters at the Greenwich train station.
On her list now are two Italian restaurants, Conte and Da Vinci's; a Japanese establishment, Kagetsu; a Mexican restaurant, Fonda La Paloma; a steakhouse, Manero's; a New American establishment, Tapestries; a pasta place, Pasta Vera, and a restaurant specializing in omelets and other egg dishes, Le Peep. The list gives customers considerable variety and price range.
While working couples are an obvious market for Butler's Tray, its customers, Mrs. Cassidy said, also include retired couples who enjoy good food but do not want to cook, young families who feel more comfortable dining at home with their children or who cannot get baby sitters, and local celebrities who want to enjoy great food in private.
One devotee is Louis Rukeyser, peripatetic traveler, economic commentator and host of ''Wall Street Week With Louis Rukeyser'' on PBS, who said he has used the Butler's Tray menu so often he has ''memorized parts of it.''
''For those of us who live deep in the country it gives us some of the conveniences of urban living,'' Mr. Rukeyser said. He commended Mrs. Cassidy for ''seeing a business opportunity and seizing it, in the good capitalist tradition.''
In cold weather Butler's Tray has a special appeal to retired couples like George and Betty Ashforth who are accustomed to dining out. ''I don't really enjoy cooking,'' Mrs. Ashforth said, ''and with the weather so bad, we can have a really nice restaurant meal three or four times a week right at home. I've used certain restaurants so much I wish they'd get a new menu.''
Considering that Butler's Tray restaurants include some of Greenwich's most well known, one might expect the service to be expensive. Actually, Mrs. Cassidy said, ''it is the same price - and sometimes even less so - as you'd pay at the restaurant itself.'' Thereis no restaurant tip to pay, although most customers tip the Butler's Tray driver. Butler's Tray charges a flat $7 delivery fee, with a 10 percent surcharge for deliveries outside Greenwich.
The food is the same as that served in the restaurant, although dishes that do not travel well are not on the Butler's Tray menu.
While most callers order a dinner for two, at an average cost of about $50, Butler's Tray gets an occasional request for a dinner party.''Our largest order so far,'' Mrs. Cassidy said, ''was $1,000 for a dinner party for 15 from Tapestries.''
One night there was a call from a woman who wanted dinner for 20 to be delivered in an hour. It was. ''I could only speculate as to why she'd order so last-minute for a dinner party,'' Mrs. Cassidy said. ''Maybe her ragout burned or the souffle fell.'' Some 20 couples order regularly from Butler's Tray once or twice a week. Many of the regular customers are loyal to specific restaurants; one couple order a smoked salmon appetizer and filet of beef from Jean-Louis every Friday night. Others, like the Rukeysers, run down the list, trying different meals from different restaurants.
Despite some experimentation, Mrs. Cassidy said, ''it is a good bet that on an order for two, one of the entrees will be chicken or duck.,'' And there are favorites from individual restaurants, like the salad with goat cheese, confit of duck and spring roasted chicken with rosemary and thyme from Bertrand, La Maison Indochine's spring rolls (''one night we got an order for 100 of them'') and chicken-in-eight delight, Jean-Louis's warm shrimp vichyssoise, deboned quail and warm, thin apple tart, and Tapestries' rack of lamb with fresh mint and roasted garlic, shrimp and scallops Provencal and chocolate mousse cake.
What makes a well-known restaurant like Jean-Louis subscribe to a food-to-go service, the chef-owner, Jean-Louis Gerin, said, is helping customers who ''enjoy good food at home without getting all dressed up.''
''They can eat our food on their own china and drink their own wines,'' Mr. Gerin said. ''Some of our best customers eat here once a week and order our food from Butler's Tray twice a week as well. It's a fun experience for many people, especially those with children.''
It is so much fun, he said, that he and his wife use the service themselves. ''With a new baby, it saves the problem of getting a sitter, and we enjoy the experience.''
The success of Butler's Tray has not gone unnoticed. Mrs. Cassidy has received calls from people in Chicago, San Francisco and New York who are planning similar businesses. As far as she knows, hers is the first.
Overhead is low, Mrs. Cassidy said. ''Once you've sold the restaurants on joining the service,'' she said, ''you have a few initial investments such as supplying each restaurant with a fax machine and with a steady complement of containers. You need to print a menu list, have a phone bank and a corps of reliable drivers and trained phone operators.''
And does Mrs. Cassidy ever use the service herself? ''Of course,'' she said. While her husband has changed jobs at U.S.T. and no longer commutes, both have irregular hours. And with their first baby expected in late February, the Cassidys are obvious candidates for the Butler's Tray service. The only difference: she doesn't have to dial 629-8878 to place her order. She's already there.

GRAPHIC: Photos; Patty Cassidy, owner of the Butler's Tray restaurant, and Phillip Baird, driver, picking up a meal from Christian Bertrand, at Bertrand (NYT/Judith Pszenica)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC MAGAZINE (57%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUTLER'S TRAY (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREENWICH (CONN)

SUBJECT: FOOD; RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (90%); TRAINS (90%); FAST FOOD (77%); FAMILY (76%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (73%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (70%); TOBACCO MFG (54%); CITY LIFE (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, PATRICIA; CASSIDY, PATTY PATTY CASSIDY (97%); LOUIS RICHARD RUKEYSER (57%); 



681 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 9, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Parasitic Mites Imperil Honeybees

BYLINE: By CHARLOTTE LIBOV

 BODY:
A PARASITIC mite that preys on honeybees has invaded hives in four towns in the state, forcing the authorities to destroy the colonies in 11 hives.
Some of the affected areas have been quarantined to prevent the spread of the infestation, Louis A. Magnarelli, the state entymologist, who is overseeing attempts to control the infestation, said last week.
The mite infestations have been found in apiaries in Naugatuck, Seymour, Watertown and Woodbury and hives involved in commercial honey production and crop pollination were purposely destroyed in those towns by applications of an insecticide called Pyrethrum. 
 
$500,000 Industry
The infestation, if it spreads, could cause serious economic losses in the $500,000 bee industry in Connecticut, bringing hardship to beekeepers who depend on sales of honey and to farmers who depend on honeybees to pollinate their crops.
The mite, Acarapis woodi, preys on honeybees by piercing the trachea, or windpipe, and laying eggs there. When they hatch, they suck the bee's body fluids, weakening the bee and reducing its honey-making and pollination capabilities. The infestations also seriously impair the bees' ability to survive the winter.
Controlling the spread of the mite is difficult, according to entymologists, because approved insecticides strong enough to kill or repel the mite could also harm the bees or contaminate their honey. Dr. Magnarelli said he was weighing whether to test new types of pesticides. The mites are not known to be harmful to other creatures.
 
Watertown-Woodbury Quarantine
The mite was first found in hives in Watertown and Woodbury last fall, and a quarantine was ordered. ''We examined 13,600 honeybees from 36 apiaries in the Watertown and Woodbury areas and found no further evidence of the tracheal mite, so the quarantine has been lifted,'' Dr. Magnarelli said. ''I'm confident we've eradicated it from those two sites.''
But a few weeks ago, infected bees were found in Naugatuck. In this case the infected bees were native to Connecticut; the other infected hives were from out-of-state, he said. The infected colonies were destroyed and the area was quarantined and no bees were permitted to be shipped in or out, pending further inspection. ''We will have the results in a couple of weeks,'' Dr. Magnarelli said.
Dr. Magnarelli's concern is that the spread of the mites could occur rapidly because of the mobility of the bee industry. Beekeepers regularly ship colonies from state to state. Such shipments are largely responsible for the spread of bee mites.
Connecticut now prohibits importation of bees and apiary equipment from dozens of states where infestations of the mites have been found. But that prohibition is often ignored, Dr. Magnarelli said. The president of the 250-member Connecticut Beekeepers Association, Charles Howe of Goshen, said last week that he hoped beekeepers would tailor efforts to curb the spread of the mites.
 
'A Serious Threat'
''This is a serious threat,'' Mr. Howe said. ''If you are growing apples, and you don't have enough bees to pollinate them, you'll get fewer apples or lopsided apples. Also, the second major aspect is fruit for wildlife. Birds depend on wild blueberries, blackberries and raspberries, which depend on bees for pollination.''
''People are buying bees from where they shouldn't be buying them,'' he said. ''In some cases, it is ignorance; in other cases, it's simply a case of trying to avoid the regulations.''
Dr. Magnarelli said he would broaden inspections of hives in northwestern Connecticut. He added that he hoped beekeepers in Connecticut would voluntarily seek inspections of their colonies. There are now 644 beekeepers registered with the state, and 2,703 hives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: BEES; PARASITES; MITES; QUARANTINE INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (92%); INSECTICIDES (90%); APICULTURE (90%); PESTICIDES (75%); IMPORT CONTROLS (60%); 

PERSON: LIBOV, CHARLOTTE; MAGNARELLI, LOUIS A LOUIS A MAGNARELLI (93%); 



682 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 12, Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: State to Offer Loans To Home Buyers

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
A NEW round of low-interest loans will become available next month that could make 1,500 Connecticut residents homeowners.
The offering of $162 million in mortgages will bring to $491 million the total made available under the program since January 1989. 
The money will become available after Feb. 5, Gov. William A. O'Neill said Wednesday, and income guidelines have been slightly relaxed, making more people eligible. The income guidelines will vary by county.
 
'A Double Bang'
Not only will it make homeownership a possibility for 1,500 families, Governor O'Neill said, but it should also help the sagging housing market in Connecticut, ''giving us a double bang for the same dollar.''
''We hope that it will help jump start the housing market although that is not the specific intent,'' he said. ''The specific intent here is to have 1,500 more families owning their new homes across the state of Connecticut.''
The money will be spread among existing homes, new homes and new or existing condominiums.
 
8 Percent Mortgages
While conventional 30-year mortgages are available at interest rates of about 10 percent, the rates under the Connecticut Housing Finance Authority program will be 8 percent for those in the lower income limits and 8.15 percent for those of slightly higher means.
''On average, if a person is borrowing $100,000, we expect this program to save the homebuyer $134 a month, compared to a conventional mortgage,'' Mr. O'Neill said. The savings, he said, would total $48,000 over the life of the mortgage.
The $162 million comes from state bonds issued by the Housing Finance Authority.
Commissioner John F. Papandrea of the State Housing Department said applicants would also be eligible to apply for down-payment assistance loans. Information will be available from participating banks beginning Feb. 5.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT HOUSING FINANCE AUTHORITY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BOND ISSUES (73%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (72%); GOVERNORS (57%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM A O'NEILL (91%); 



683 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 6, Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: Shoreham Asset: Land and Location

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
THE Herculean labor involved in building the Shoreham nuclear-power plant may have been largely a waste, but a group of energy experts in Midland, Mich., hopes to convince Long Islanders not to overlook the value of an indestructible component: the land on which the plant sits.
Never mind the $5 billion reactor, they say. Instead, think of Shoreham as a large piece of land already connected to the power grid, and with a source for cooling water and a clutch of permits that would be difficult to duplicate anywhere in New York.
The entrepreneurs are the developers of the Midland Cogeneration Venture, a failed nuclear project that is being repowered with natural gas to supply electricity and industrial steam, a process called cogeneration.
The project, 110 miles north of Detroit, is scheduled to complete a 23-month metamorphosis next month. About the time it enters into commercial operation, its builders, led by CMS, the corporate parent of the utility that built the Midland reactor, will probably be starting a campaign to persuade Long Island to let them do the same with Shoreham. 
 
Siting of New Lines a Problem
''Siting new transmission lines is an abomination,'' William T. McCormick Jr., chairman of CMS, told a group of visitors from Long Island earlier this month.
Making use of existing permits for water use, and of the decision more than 20 years ago to use the site for power generation, will save years in building another plant, he said.
Matthew C. Cordaro of Long Lake Energy agreed. Said Mr. Cordaro, a former vice president of the Long Island Lighting Company, whose company hopes to participate in a conversion:
''I don't know where you could site a generating plant in Nassau County or western Suffolk.''
Lilco itself, however, is unenthusiastic. One reason is that conversion of Shoreham by third parties like the Long Island Power Authority and the Michigan utility would turn Lilco into an electricity buyer and reseller, rather than a producer and seller.
 
Intense Sales Effort
CMS put on an intense sales effort for the visitors, members of the Long Island Power Authority. The pitch included a videotape on conversion with a sound track that a CMS official said sounded like ''co-gen Rambo.''
For the Power Authority officials, the trip to Michigan had some coincidences. The chairman, Richard Kessel, told Mr. McCormick over dinner at the Midland Country Club that he also served as chairman of the Consumer Protection Board in New York.
''My job is to kick utilities,'' Mr. Kessel told Mr. McCormick. ''I'm good at it.''
Shoreham is so unpopular, he said, that a converted project would probably have to be renamed. He mused about holding a contest to pick a new title.
The main source of opposition to a conversion is not likely to be the partisans of another site but rather those who believe that the money needed to build a new plant would be better spent on more efficient light bulbs, refrigerators, electric motors and other consuming equipment.
The environmental impact of growth is small if natural gas is the fuel, but it is smaller yet if existing supplies of power are made to do more work at lower cost, efficiency advocates say.
The converters, led by CMS, argue that a converted Shoreham is the best option if a power plant is needed. (A Shoreham twin, the Zimmer reactor in Moscow, Ohio, is being converted to coal, and a 15-year-old reactor in Sacramento, Calif., may also be converted to natural gas. But in general, conversion is a strategy born of desperation.) At Midland, CMS's utility subsidiary, Consumers Power Company, had spent $4.1 billion to bring the twin-reactor project to a point that it said was 85 percent complete.
Facing stiff opposition from its customers and the Michigan Attorney General, and engineering problems, including the settling of parts of the plant into mud, Consumers Power stopped work in 1984. When CMS contributed the nonnuclear portion of Midland to the new venture, it valued those assets at $1.5 billion.
The conversion was opposed by many of those who fought the nuclear plant, and the power sales contract between the Midland Cogeneration Venture partners, which include CMS, and the CMS subsidiary, Consumers Power, has been the subject of extensive hearings before the Michigan regulatory authorities.
 
Abandonment Called Opportunity
But abandonment is an opportunity, Mr. McCormick said, adding that the Shoreham abandonment could transform the energy picture in the New York region in a positive way.
In electricity terms, Long Island is the end of the line, an extended finger at the end of the power grid that must fend for itself to a large extent because geography sets limits on imports.
But CMS would like to turn Long Island into the beginning of the line, an energy exporter generating enough electricity to provide steady power to Connecticut, New York City and New Jersey. Conceivably, the new transmission line being built under Long Island Sound to bring in power from the north might run in the other direction.
One essential reason for a gas-powered plant bigger than the reactor is technical. The part of Shoreham that turns steam into electricity is designed for nuclear steam, which is about 550 degrees.
 
Air Dumped at 1,000 Degrees
But when it comes to fossil fuels, the higher the temperature, the higher the efficiency, and natural gas is generally used to produce hot air at 2,000 degrees.
Plants that use that air to make electricity dump the air at 1,000 degrees, and that waste energy is still hot enough to make steam that the nuclear turbine can handle after it has had some modifications.
But it takes the waste heat of many gas burners to make enough steam to use the nuclear turbine. At Midland, a plant that was to be 800 megawatts will run, in its initial phase, at 1,200. Eventually, the complex, which includes a mothballed turbine from a second reactor, could be used to make 3,500 megawatts.
That amount of power is vast by any standard. The largest electric-generating complex in New York, in Scriba, where Nine Mile Point 1 and 2 and the James A. Fitzpatrick reactors are situated, comes to 2,500 megawatts. Shoreham was intended to be an 809-megawatt plant.
Even 809 megawatts is more power that Long Island is projected to need in the near future. The settlement under which Shoreham was shut envisioned three 300-megawatt plants going into service in 1997, 1999 and 2001.
 
Demand Rising Steadily
But in the Northeast as a whole, a strong economy and a long-term trend toward greater electrification of jobs previously done with fossil fuels are steadily raising demand.
New York State's position is relatively strong, but in the hottest and coldest days each year, the New England utilities have come uncomfortably close to their generating limits.
In hot weather, the group of utilities that serves the region from Newark to Washington, D.C. and west to the Allegheny Mountains has had to cut voltage repeatedly.
Pennsylvania added a large nuclear reactor, Limerick 2, earlier this year, and New England may add the Seabrook plant, but each of these represents only about one year's growth. Future growth is likely to be met by smaller gas-fired plants.
Does that make an expanded, gas-powered Shoreham a good deal for Long Island?
Mr. Kessel pondered that question as he gazed at a row of 12 rust-colored gas-turbine exhaust stacks at Midland, each towering 120 feet over the flat landscape.
''I'm trying to place it on Long Island,'' he told James A. Mooney, the CMS official in charge of engineering and construction. ''Does it have to have stacks?'' ''Well, you could paint them green,'' Mr. Mooney replied. The stacks also could be partly screened by the hilly terrain at Shoreham, said another CMS official who had scouted the Long Island site.
The Swiss-built gas turbines in use at Midland are 87 megawatts each. Probably at least four would be needed before it would be sensible to use the Shoreham turbine.
But if the waste heat were used in the turbine, about 43 percent of the energy in the gas would be turned to electricity, which is considered highly efficient. Most oil- and gas-fired plants achieve efficiencies of only about 34 percent.
A larger plant would have lower costs per kilowatt-hour produced, say its proponents, and, Mr. Kessel noted, would have a higher assessed valuation for tax purposes.
But he and other Power Authority officials expressed leeriness about large projects. He added, given the history of Shoreham, that for a conversion to work, ''This has to be seen as a good deal by Long Island.''

GRAPHIC: Photo; members of the Long Island Power Authority with a model for the Midland Cogeneration Venture (NYT/Peter Yates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (91%); NG (LSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (91%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (91%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (91%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (53%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIDLAND COGENERATION VENTURE

SUBJECT: SHOREHAM NUCLEAR POWER PLANT ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POWER COGENERATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY SITING (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); NATURAL GAS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L WILLIAM T MCCORMICK JR (55%); 



684 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: January 28, 1990

 BODY:

 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction	 	 	 	 	 1	1	11	DADDY, by Danielle Steel (Delacorte, $19.95.) Unexpected				crises wreck the safe, predictable world a man has built for				himself and his family.	 	 	 	 	 2	3	11	CARIBBEAN, by James A. Michener (Random House, $22.95.) The				history of the sea islands told in fictional form.	 	 	 	 	 3	4	13	THE DARK HALF, by Stephen King (Viking, $21.95.) After a				writer of horror tales kills off his pseudonym, the deceased				goes on a murderous rampage.	 	 	 	 	 4*	7	13	HARMFUL INTENT, by Robin Cook (Putnam, $18.95.) A physician				struggles to clear his name in a "medical malpractice" death				and to prevent others from occurring.	 	 	 	 	 5	2	22	CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER, by Tom Clancy (Putnam, $21.95.) The				C.I.A.'s Jack Ryan fights Colombian drug lords.	 	 	 	 	 6*	5	2	VINELAND, by Thomas Pynchon (Little, Brown ($19.95.) The				passions of the 1960's continue to rule the lives of members				of a community in Northern California.	 	 	 	 	 7		1	THE BAD PLACE by Dean R. Koontz (Putnam, $10.95.) A troubled				sleepwalker hires a detective team to discover the causes and				consequences of his behavior.	 	 	 	 	 8	6	15	FOUCAULT'S PENDULUM, by Umberto Eco (Wolff/Harcourt Brace				Jovanovich $22.95.) Ancient documents and arcane codes				produce astonishing results when thrown into a computer.	 	 	 	 	 9	8	2	A RULING PASSION, by Judith Michael (Poseidon, $19.95.) A				young widow's entry into the world of television brings her				adventures fraught with love, intrigue, revenge and murder.	 	 	 	 	10	9	15	TALES FROM MARGARITAVILLE, by Jimmy Buffett (Harcourt Brace				Jovanovich, $16.95.) Short stories set on a mythical				Caribbean island.	 	 	 	 	11*	15	2	COLD HARBOUR, by Jack Higgins (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) The				O.S.S. agent Craig Osbourne on a perilous mission during				World War II.	 	 	 	 	12		1	DEVICES AND DESIRES, by P. D. James. (Knopf, $19.95.) Adam				Dalgitesh puzzles over a series of killings on the windy				Norfolk coast.	 	 	 	 	13*	10	2	MYSTERY, by Peter Straub (Dutton, $19.95.) A bright young man				and an elderly eccentric join hands to solve a murder that				haunts them both.	 	 	 	 	14*	11	10	STRAIGHT, by Dick Francis (Putnam, $18.95.) A steeplechase				jockey inherits property and a mysterious enemy.	 	 	 	 	15	12	4	SPY LINE, by Len Deighton (Knopf, $18.95.) To salvage his				reputation, the British agent Bernard Samson undertakes a				hazardous mission in Vienna.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction	 	 	 	 	 1	2	12	LIAR'S POKER, by Michael Lewis (Norton, $18.95.) Wall				Street's tumultuous 1980's, as witnessed by a young bond				trader.	 	 	 	 	 2	1	19	IT WAS ON FIRE WHEN I LAY DOWN ON IT, by Robert Fulghum				(Villard, $17.95.) A new collection of inspirational essays.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	65	ALL I REALLY NEEDED TO KNOW I LEARNED IN KINDERGARTEN,				(Villard, $17.95.) Inspirational essays about everyday matters.	 	 	 	 	 4	4	7	THE TEMPTING OF AMERICA, by Robert M. Bork (Free Press,				$22.50.) A critique of the relationship between politics and				the law by Ronald Reagan's Supreme Court nominee.	 	 	 	 	 5		1	MEGATRENDS 2000, by John Naisbitt and Patricia Aburdene				(Morrow, $21.95.) Prognostications about political, economic				and social developments in the next decade.	 	 	 	 	 6	5	93	A BRIEF HISTORY OF TIME, by Stephen W. Hawking (Bantam,				$18.95.) A scientist views efforts to create a unified theory				of the universe.	 	 	 	 	 7	6	13	MY TURN, by Nancy Reagan with William Novak (Random House,				21.95.) The former First Lady's memoir of her White House				years.	 	 	 	 	 8*		1	BARBARIANS AT THE GATE, by Bryan Burrough and John Helyar				(Harper & Row, $22.95.) The 1988 battle for control of RJR				Nabisco.	 	 	 	 	 9	9	22	AMONG SCHOOLCHILDREN, by Tracy Kidder (Todd/Houghton/Mifflin,				$19.95.) A year in the life of a fifth-grade schoolteacher in				Holyoke, Mass.	 	 	 	 	10	7	16	ROSEANNE, by Roseanne Barr (Harper & Row, $18.95.) The				autobiography of the television comedian.	 	 	 	 	11	11	13	EDUCATION OF A WANDERING MAN, by Louis L'Amour (Bantam,				$16.95.) The author recalls the places he visited and the				books he read in his youth.	 	 	 	 	12	 *	810	ALL MY BEST FRIENDS, by George Burns with David Fisher				(Putnam, $17.95.) Reminiscences about show business				acquaintances.	 	 	 	 	13	13	8	WONDERFUL LIFE, by Stephen Jay Gould (Norton, $19.95.) What				the contents of a small quarry in the Canadian Rockies have				revealed about the past and about scientific methods.	 	 	 	 	14	12	2	THE EMPEROR'S NEW MIND, by Roger Penrose (Oxford University,				$24.95.) A physicist maintains that computers will never				replace human thinking.	 	 	 	 	15	10	12	DRIVE, by Larry Bird with Bob Ryan (Doubleday, $17.95.) The				autobiography of the Boston Celitcs baseball star.	 	 	 	 	16*	15	2	WHO NEEDS GOD, by Harold Kushner (Summit, $18.95.) A rabbi				tells how religious commitment can make great differences in				our lives.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 	 1	1	0	WEALTH WITHOUT RISK, by Charles J. Givens (Simon & Schuster,				$19.95.) A Florida entrepreneur's advice about how to make a				personal fortune.	 	 	 	 	 2	2	7	THE GREAT WALDO SEARCH, by Martin Handford (Little, Brown				$10.95.) A book of illustrations in which the game is to find				an ubiquitous chap named Waldo.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	29	THE WAY THINGS WORK, by David Macaulay (Houghton Mifflin,				$29.95.) Explanations in pictures and text.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	29	THE WAY TO COOK, by Julia Child (Knopf, $50.) More than 800				recipies from "the French Chef."	 	 	 	 	 5	5	14	THE FRUGAL GOURMET COOKS THREE ANCIENT CUISINES, by Jeff				Smith (Morrow, $18.95.) Recipies from China, Greece and Rome.	
 
These listings are based on computer-processed sales figures from 3,000 bookstores and from representative wholesalers with more than 38,000 other retail outlets, including variety stores and supermarkets. The figures are statistically adjusted to represent sales in all such outlets across the United States.

*An asterisk before a book's title indicates that its sales, weighted to reflect the book-selling industry nationally, are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
 
 
 
And Bear in Mind
(Editor's choices of other recent books of particular interest.)
HOLLYWOOD: A Novel of America in the 1930's, by Gore Vidal (Random House, $19.95.) The latest wonderfully literate installment in Mr. Vidal's docudramatic revision of American history and politics features a movie star with a mission: to persuade producers to make anti-German World War I movies.
ESCAPES, by Joy Williams. (Atlantic Monthly, $18.95.) A collection of quirky, ominous short stories in which "every person is on the brink of eternity every moment," and few fail to fall in.
IN THE FACE OF DEATH, by Peter Noll. (Viking, $19.95.) Death is an instructional tool in this provocative record of his own final months by Peter Noll, an earnest and dedicated Swiss law professor determined to revise our thinking about dying.
THE SPIRIT OF FOLK ART: The Girard Collection at the Museum of International Folk Art, by Henry Glassie. Color photographs by Michael Monteaux. (Abrams, $60.) With 154 splendid color pages, this rather ambitious illustrated essay celebrates a collection (located in Santa Fe, N.M.) that richly deserves it.
OUR NEW YORK, Text by Alfred Kazin, Photographs by David Finn (Harper & Row, $35.) A delightful collaboration on the New York landscape and its meaning by two wise old Brooklyn hands.
FORGED IN BATTLE: The Civil War Alliance of Black Soldiers and White Officers, by Joseph T. Glatthaar (The Free Press, $24.95.) An absorbing account, more social than military, of the revolution through which 180,000 blacks fought for the Union in the Civil War.
PICTURING WILL, by Ann Beattie. (Random House, $18.95.) Complex points of view unfold to yield the shock of enlightenment in Ms. Beattie's fourth novel, a lyrical, deeply affecting story about a little boy and the people who love him, or should.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); COLOMBIA (69%); UNITED STATES (54%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (50%); NEW YORK (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (67%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (58%); 



685 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: So What if College Players Turn Pro?

BYLINE: By Donald Kennedy; Donald Kennedy is president of Stanford University.

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif.

 BODY:
Now that the January orgy of bowl and all-star games has almost faded from memory, we spectators can turn to other, more elevating activities, like today's Super Bowl. The players, meanwhile, some 2,000 of them representing more than 30 bowl-qualifying football powers, have returned to their campuses and resumed what the National Collegiate Athletic Association likes to describe as ''normal academic lives.''
What are these lives like? For a lucky few, they resemble the lives of their fellow students. But at a great many of the universities, life after the bowl game is very different. 
To begin with, the athlete is likely to feel, and to be, quite isolated. He will enjoy some protection from this feeling in his residential environment, which is likely to be an athletic domitory. But in the classroom, he will abruptly encounter people whose expectations about who he is and why he is there will set him dramatically apart from his fellow students.
His ''academic'' advisers, largely paid by the athletic department, will have arranged a course schedule that will keep him eligible by the N.C.A.A.'s soft standards, not a program that will move him toward the qualifications for a degree.
Indeed, for football players to earn degrees in many of the most athletically successful programs is appallingly rare. Graduation rates for football (and basketball) players are often less than half those for the student body as a whole. Thus, it is difficult to escape the conclusion that these athletes are performing a revenue-producing service without receiving anything lasting in return. The system, to be brief and blunt about it, reeks of exploitation.
The N.C.A.A., which is supposed to provide regulatory remedies for excesses of this kind, has proved ineffective, to put it kindly. But there is an organization that can help. It is -hold your breath - the National Football League.
The N.F.L. is in the business of presenting the best football to the public. In support of that mission, it wants and needs the best players. Some of the best players, however, play for college teams. Before now, the N.F.L. has maintained (mostly) a self-denying ordinance against hiring the occasional college underclassman who can play in that league. This agreement, however, is often honored in the breach: Exceptionally talented players are somehow made ''exceptions.'' Some have pointed out that the N.F.L. may find it economically advantageous to maintain an excellent ''farm system'' of college teams at no cost. These spoilsports charge that the league restrains the recruiting activities of its member teams. Such a practice would almost certainly be illegal; right-thinking persons would reject it immediately.
Now, there is fresh hope on this score. The N.F.L.'s new commissioner, Paul Tagliabue, has said the league will reconsider its self-imposed restraint against hiring underclassmen. I invite it to take this step.
Some will object that this would deny young people the opportunity to finish their degrees. But, in fact, very few of them will do anything of the sort. Instead, they will merely complete their eligibility, winding up their service to a lower paying master who will then pass them along to the N.F.L. - without a degree.
I urge the N.F.L. to go after underclass football players and sign them right up - if it can persuade them that their chances of economic success in the pros are better than their chances of genuine academic success.
What would be the harm? Doubtless, there would be a burst of negative publicity, but that should pass. Some will also argue that unhampered N.F.L. recruiting would discourage serious students from finishing degrees they actually have a chance of earning. But students who really expect to complete their degrees will likely defer signing so as to finish their studies; or they may complete their degrees while playing professionally.
About here someone will remember a Texas law that protects the young minds of undergraduates from seduction by those who want to pay them good money for what they do best. Some of us believe we detect a hint of self-service in the ''don't mess with Texas'' statute, and my legal colleagues here believe that a court test of the measure under the antitrust laws would prove interesting.
Who likes this proposal favoring freedom of access for the N.F.L., besides me? Well, I get a lot of quiet agreement from faculty members in institutions that view student-athletes as students first. My economist friends also like it, especially those to my right, because it presents such an attractive vision of the free market working just as it is supposed to: Those who would benefit more from football would go, those who would benefit more from college would stay.
Indeed, the change might even induce the strong football programs to insist on higher academic standards, thus offering athletically talented undergraduates a persuasive reason for deferring professional careers. The N.F.L. should like it, because what the N.F.L. wants is the best players; in contrast to the other institutional participants in this debate, it has never tried to kid anybody.
Who wouldn't like it? The N.C.A.A. and the institutions that are practicing athletic exploitation, poorly disguised as academic compassion. That by itself should tell you it's a pretty good idea.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY; NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSN (NCAA); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION; NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE; 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; COLLEGE ATHLETICS; PROFESSIONAL ATHLETICS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (94%); SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (77%); GRADUATION RATES (76%); BASKETBALL (73%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, DONALD



686 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS: Houston;
'Bottom-Fishing' Brings Up Bargains

BYLINE: By LETTICE STUART

 BODY:
OUT-OF-TOWN investors flocking to this city to scoop up real estate at rock-bottom prices have given rise to its newest sport - ''bottom fishing.''
Depressed property values in apartment complexes, office buildings, shopping centers, land and single-family homes, caused by the decline in the oil and gas industry in the early 80's, have attracted bottom fishers from Canada, Europe, Australia, Asia and both coasts of the United States.
Most properties are acquired from failed thrift institutions and are bought at 25 to 50 percent of replacement costs. If buildings are selling at prices well below construction costs, investors assume their value is bound to rise eventually.
''But the locals aren't buying because they are broke,'' said Dr. Barton Smith, chairman of the department of economics at the University of Houston, ''so out-of-towners are filling the void.'' 
Harvey Borsuk, a real estate investor from Stamford, Conn., was in the first wave of out-of-towners, arriving about six months before the city's economy hit bottom in February 1987. His first acquisition was a 232-unit apartment complex called Rush Creek Place in the northwest section of town.
He talked four top Merrill Lynch executives into joining him at a bargain 25 percent of replacement cost, with financing by a local savings and loan. The complex was 68 percent occupied at rents of 29 cents a square foot a month. Occupancy has increased to 92 percent and rents have been raised to 42 cents a square foot.
Mr. Borsuk and his investment partners have since bought more than 7,000 apartment units in 27 rental projects, some of which already have been resold. In all, he and his investors have spent $98 million, an average of $14,000 per unit, on Houston apartments. About 85 percent of the transactions have been all cash deals, with most of the rest financed by insurance companies.
His latest partners are foreign institutional investors such as the German group with whom he bought 1,964 apartment units in December for $32.5 million. He said those investors have put up an additional $42 million just to buy apartments in Houston.
But it is getting harder to find good deals, he said, with so much property in the hands of the Resolution Trust Corporation, which he said is ''extremely difficult to work with.'' The corporation is a new government agency set up to dispose of the billions of dollars of real estate held by insolvent thrifts.
Another investor, Maxwell B. Drever, based in San Francisco, has rented a helicopter to tour industrial sites from the air. Like Mr. Borsuk, he was looking for apartment complexes, but he believes industrial expansion is the best indicator of when to move into a market. New employees will be needed wherever industry is leasing new space, and every four new jobs means one apartment needed, Mr. Drever said. The formula, he said, works every time. Mr. Drever, president of Drever Partners, first began buying real estate in depressed areas 20 years ago in Seattle. He bought 16 apartment projects at fire-sale prices during a real estate recession there. Now the company owns apartments in Denver, Memphis, Tampa, Fla., Columbus, Ohio, and here.
Since entering this market in mid-1987, Mr. Drever has invested $125 million, buying 22 apartment projects with 5,100 units. All have been bought from failed thrifts at 30 to 70 percent of actual costs, or about $20 a square foot, he said. He says he concentrates on properties with high occupancy rates in locations where average family income exceeds $40,000. He then spends money on improvements and amenities and holds the properties for 5 to 10 years before reselling. Mr. Drever is backed primarily by institutional investors in New York, among them insurance companies and pension funds.
Then there is Dr. Andre Danesh of Boston, a chemistry professor turned real estate investor. He has no partners and, therefore, buys on a smaller scale. He was attracted to Houston in 1986, when he bought a small medical building from a private investor for $565,000. Eighteen months later, he bought Executive Plaza, twin 10-story office buildings fronting the southwest freeway, from Prudential Insurance Company for $12 million. He continues to spend several days a month here looking for other deals.
The list of buyers includes Peter Krulewitch of New York, who entered the Houston market in 1988 with a $3 million purchase of Westpark Mall and Plaza shopping center from Prudential Property Company. In January, Mr. Krulewitch and his Kingston Investor corporation bought a half block of vacant downtown property in Houston from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for $3.2 million - about a fourth of what it sold for a year ago, said Mr. Krulewitch.
British, Finnish, West German, Australian and Canadian investors have all joined the parade of buyers seeking opportunities in Houston. Since 1986, Daniele Silvestri, a Canadian, has bought 300 single-family homes, which he is holding for rental, dozens of single-family lots, five mid-rise condominium projects and nearly 1 million square feet of retail space in the Houston area.
Buckingham International PLC, a London company with hotels in Europe and in Orlando, Fla., bought the 320-room Grand Hotel in Houston in August and plans to acquire several more, said the company's chief executive officer, Nick Jivrav. The 14-story Grand Hotel was sold for $11 million by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and American General Insurance Company, which took over the property in a foreclosure sale the preceding year. Mr. Jivrav said the purchase price was 50 percent of replacement cost.
Since 1988, Andy Lai of Gulf South Investments, a Houston real estate company with an office in Taiwan, has sold several properties to Hong Kong buyers. A clothing manufacturer bought three small office buildings, a doctor's wife bought 12 single-family houses for rental and a 12-story office building downtown, and the owner of a Taiwan stock brokerage bought 30 single-family homes for rental.
Other Hong Kong clients have bought motels and hotels and some picked up totally vacant shopping centers for as little as $10 to $12 a square foot, he said.
''Real estate in Houston is a real bargain for these buyers because it's about one-tenth of the cost of real estate in Hong Kong,'' Mr. Lai said. He also noted that small investors had been encouraged by the recent arrival of big Japanese investors. In December, for example, Interfin Corporation of Houston sold an 85 percent interest in the Four Oaks Place office complex for $275 million to a partnership including Lehndorff USA Group of Companies and a Japanese group headed by Taikichiro Mori, a wealthy developer.
THE flurry of out-of-town investor activity is expected to slacken this year as the city's recovery strengthens. Foreclosures of commercial property in Harris County, where Houston is situated, dropped 42 percent during the first three-quarters of 1989 from the same period the year earlier, and further decreases are expected this year, according to Gary Cairns, vice president of REVAC, a real estate research concern. At the same time, office-building sales have increased 46 percent and more than a fourth of Houston's 400,000 apartments have been sold in the last two years, he said.
The indexes used to evaluate an area's growth - population, employment, retail sales, housing starts and office building, hotel and apartment occupancy rates - are all moving up, said Edward H. Cappel, first vice president of Coldwell Banker Commercial Services. As the economy recovers, real estate prices will continue to rise, weeding out the speculative investors, he said.
''Already we are seeing a different tier of buyers,'' he said. ''The first tier, the more speculative, risk-oriented buyers, have bought and now the more conservative, institutional buyers are coming into the market.'' As prices rise, the out-of-town bargain hunters will move elsewhere. ''Pretty soon, they will be saying, 'Why should I pay those prices in Houston when I can get a better deal in Phoenix?', '' said Dr. Smith, the University of Houston economist.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maxwell B. Drever of San Francisco at apartment complex he brought in Houston; River Oaks Tower office building on Kirby Drive, bought by Itzhak Ashkenazy of New York. (The New York Times/Sam C. Pierson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (91%); ASIA (90%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (56%); UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOUSTON (TEX)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; PRICES REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); SPORT FISHING (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); RETAILERS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); INSURANCE (61%); 

PERSON: STUART, LETTICE MAXWELL B DREVER (82%); HARVEY BORSUK (62%); PETER KRULEWITCH (59%); 



687 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 6, Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Amtrak Plans Meeting On Troubled Rail Line

BYLINE: By JAMES RUTHERFORD

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY

 BODY:
UNDER a Congressional order to break even or shut down its debt-plagued express line to Atlantic City, Amtrak officials want to bring New Jersey's casino executives to the bargaining table next month in hopes of finding a way to save the line.
Tim Gardner, Amtrak's vice president of marketing, said the federally subsidized passenger railroad would try to persuade the casino executives to budge from a standing refusal to provide the kinds of complimentary incentives they offer their bus customers. Amtrak says the incentives are needed to reverse eight months of chronically low ridership on the highly publicized run.
Talks are scheduled for Friday in Washington, the day after New Jersey's annual Chamber of Commerce junket of lawmakers and business people to the nation's capital. 
''We've invited them to meet here'' said Mr. Gardner, speaking from Amtrak's Washington headquarters. ''Several indicated they would come. It's not a make-or-break situation. But we'll be talking along a variety of lines.''
 
Harrah's Offers Incentives
A major issue, Mr. Gardner said, is the incentives for riders of the line, popularly known as the GamblersExpress. ''I'd certainly say it's key,'' he said. ''It's near the top of the list, definitely.''
So far, of the 11 casinos, only Harrah's Marina has a contract with Amtrak to provide riders with $10 in quarters and a $5 credit toward a return trip. That deal expires in March.
About 1,000 passengers a day are riding the Gamblers Express on six weekday round-trips and nine on weekends from Washington, New York City, New Haven and Philadelphia. When it began the run last May, Amtrak projected a need for 3,500 riders a day to meet costs anticipated at $28 million the first year. The line cost $100 million to build, $30 million of it from the Federal Government. Amtrak now says it stands to lose $14 million by the end of the first year.
Congress had given Amtrak a deadline for meeting 80 percent of its costs by May. With the unlikelihood of that happening, the deadline was extended another year. The same legislation set the break-even point for the end of the third year. If it is not met, the line must cease operations.
''It's a worst-case scenario, but it's not beyond the realm of possibility'' Mr. Gardner said. ''Some things have to break in our favor; and one thing is, we have to get casino participation.''
 
Buses Have Giveaways
Specifically, Amtrak wants the kind of money and meal giveaways that have been a staple of the casinos' efforts to lure the lucrative bus trade, the day-trippers who mostly live within driving distance of this seaside resort. But for economic reasons, the casinos, with the exception of Harrah's, have shied away.
''For the same reason, they cut back on the bus programs,'' said David Gardner, vice president of the Casino Association of New Jersey, which is an industry lobbying and promotional group. The Gardners are not related.
''They were found to be not as profitable as people thought in the past,'' he said. ''They're very expensive.''
To what extent Amtrak predicated the success of the line on those same giveaways is unclear, Tim Gardner said, ''but we judged that once in service, the incentives would come, that they would compete for the riders we were bringing.'' ''That didn't occur,'' he said. ''It was a serious miscalculation.'' Perhaps only one miscalculation of several on Amtrak's part, said Thomas Carver, president of the Casino Association. ''Whether Atlantic City even has the base traffic to support rail service in the first place is something that has to be seriously examined,'' he said. ''We told Amtrak well before this line ever started that in our estimation the service on the Philadelphia and New York lines would not be successful. Not when people can take a bus run by a private company that's going to pick them up at the corner of the local drugstore and get them onto the Garden State Parkway or the Atlantic City Expressway in the same amount of time it takes to get to the train station where they live, and for less money.''
 
'It Hasn't Worked'
Mr. Carver said he believed Amtrak would have benefited had the casinos been brought in at the line's inception to help map profitable routes and develop marketing strategies. They were not, he said. ''It was a lot of stubbornness, in our judgment, on their part,'' he said. ''They were going to do this and do it their way, and it hasn't worked.''
Evidence of the gambling industry's disenchantment came to light last November, when the Casino Association stopped running its own buses to the rail terminal near the foot of the expressway to shuttle riders to the gaming halls along the Boardwalk. ''It did not do well because nobody was coming in on the trains'' David Gardner said.
That is not likely to change anytime soon, Amtrak officials say, unless some kind of incentive program is forthcoming. ''We're convinced now that the lack of casino incentives has hurt the line very badly'' said Clifford Black, a spokesman for the railroad.
But officials on both sides now say they realize an even greater need to cooperate on marketing and promotion, particularly, and on better customer analyses. Acting as a mediator, Steven Richer, the president of the Atlantic City Convention and Visitors Bureau, was instrumental in setting up the February meeting.
''Everyone in the industry is anxious for Amtrak to be successful'' he said. ''We want to have an opportunity to discuss with them how it can be done. The meeting is nothing other than an attempt to look at the problems and challenges and make it work better.''
 
Extension of Line Planned
In the meantime, Amtrak is negotiating with outside agencies with a view to extending the line to Richmond and to Philadelphia International Airport. The airport extension with the possibility of tapping into nationwide air service farther West, had been suggested by the Casino Association from the beginning, Mr. Carver said.
''We want it to succeed,'' he said. ''It's a needed service. We'll sit down with them; I think we're obliged to sit down with them. But if they're looking to talk about this industry underwriting their costs, I'll tell you now, it's not going to happen.'' Which leaves Amtrak, Mr. Black said, with a ''selling job.'' ''Amtrak's pitch to the casinos is, we're bringing in, essentially, a clientele that's going to spend more time and more money in Atlantic City and we should be permitted to play on an even field with other modes of transportation,'' he said.
Tim Gardner added: ''It's a real uphill fight to compete when the incentives are offered to everyone else. It's a marketing area where people expect it. People back away when they're not getting a freebie they feel they're entitled to.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTIC CITY (NJ)

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; GAMBLING; PASSENGER SERVICES; CASINOS; BUSES CASINOS (91%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); GAMING (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); 

PERSON: RUTHERFORD, JAMES; GARDNER, TIM JAMES B GARDNER (92%); 



688 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 2061 words

HEADLINE: Budget Director is Praised As Smart and Faulted for It

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28

 BODY:
When word spread recently that the Administration's budget would be presented this year in one large book instead of the usual collection of smaller volumes, the response around town, from Congress and the bureaucracy, from lobbyists and reporters, was the same: What is Darman up to now?
The suspicion that he has something up his sleeve, in this case probably unjustified, illustrates how Richard G. Darman, a pivotal figure in the Bush Administration and perhaps the most influential budget director ever, is regarded by many people he deals with as a man who approaches every task with a scheme, an angle.
Politicians and scholars disagree over whether that reputation, based on Mr. Darman's volatile personality as much as specific incidents, makes him less effective as one of the Administration's chief political negotiators and tacticians. But they agree that his personality often overshadows the fact that he is admired throughout Washington by his political enemies as well as his friends for his intelligence, his capacity for work, his analytical ability and his mastery of Government policy. 
 
Evidence of Foresight
Mr. Darman is also much more far-seeing than most people in politics and government. That is apparent from an introduction he wrote to the budget that will be submitted to Congress on Monday. The didactic tone may irk some lawmakers, but his warning that Congress must be prepared for enormous future expenses like medical care for an aging population reminds the lawmakers of future obligations they are inclined to neglect.
In the face of the political constraints imposed by President Bush's no-tax policy, Mr. Darman, in his first year as director of the Office of Management and Budget, dominated the policies of the Government's hundreds of departments and agencies to an ex- tent none of his predecessors did, took broad steps to weed out mismanagement throughout the Government and saw a budget enacted that fell within the broad range of President Bush's proposals.
He also assumed the role, normally outside the domain of the budget director, of political strategist and principal lobbyist for President Bush's domestic and economic policies.
 
Rift With Congress
But he failed to achieve a lasting solution to what many economists and politicians see as the nation's most serious problem, the Federal budget deficit. And he managed to damage the Bush Administration's relationship with Congress, especially with important Democratic senators, to such a degree that some lawmakers doubt it can be repaired.
''When I talk to him,'' said Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, chairman of the Finance Committee, ''I am reminded of the story about the two psychiatrists. One says, 'Good morning.' The other says, 'What did you mean by that?' ''
Mr. Darman declined to be interviewed on the record for this article, saying, ''I do not want to respond to those kinds of questions.'' He is irate at journalists and lawmakers who, he thinks, focus on his personality rather than the product of his work.
 
Resented for Being Smart
One of Mr. Darman's strongest supporters in Congress, Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the top Republican on the Budget Committee, said he suspected the budget director was sometimes resented because he is so smart.
''There's a fine line,'' Mr. Domenici said, ''between having an angle, having a strategy, and being improperly devious. Some of those who think there's deviousness here don't like him because it's so hard to second-guess him, to outwit him, to outplan him, and maybe it's very hard for some to risk sitting down with him to negotiate.''
But Mr. Darman's critics maintain that the budget director has often broken his word, a cardinal sin among politicians. The critics include, in addition to Senator Bentsen, Senators George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader; Jim Sasser of Tennessee, chairman of the Budget Committee, and Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, chairman of the Appropriations Committee.
Their main complaint is that last April Mr. Darman negotiated a budget deal with Congress, a deal that everyone conceded was modest to buy time so that good will could be developed between President Bush and Congress and so that a comprehensive deficit-reduction package could be worked out late in the year. By all accounts, the initial deal did not include a reduction in the capital gains tax rate.
 
Push to Cut Capital Gains Tax
But after the House of Representatives surprisingly approved a capital gains measure, Mr. Darman pulled out all political stops, personally challenging Democratic senators' motives and intelligence, in an unsuccessful effort to move the tax cut through the Senate.
Mr. Darman said at meetings with reporters last fall that he had no choice but to pursue the capital gains issue once it was passed by the House.
Senator Sasser, for one, does not accept that explanation. ''I think his credibility has been diminished by his failure to deliver on a bipartisan agreement,'' he said.
Mr. Sasser continued: ''Congress gave the Administration a slip-by year, a free pass, to let the President get his feet on the ground. In exchange for that, it was strongly implied that we would get together later to make the tough decisions to put our fiscal house in order once and for all. As soon as the ceremonies were over, that evaporated in thin air, and then with the fierce fight over capital gains, a breech of the agreement, his credibility suffered another severe blow.''
Many top Republican senators, including Bob Dole of Kansas, the minority leader, also criticized Mr. Darman for fighting the capital gains battle long after it was lost.
 
Praise at Highest Levels
Within the Bush Administration, Mr. Darman, who is 46 years old and has served in Government positions most of his adult life, is praised at the highest levels. He did not know the President well when he accepted the job as budget director, but White House officials say that he quickly won Mr. Bush's confidence and became, apart from John H. Sununu, the chief of staff, the President's main adviser on domestic and economic policy.
Over the years, Mr. Darman has had several important patrons in Government. In the Nixon Administration, for example, he worked for Attorney General Elliot O. Richardson. In the Reagan Administration, he was the deputy at the White House and the Treasury Department to James A. Baker 3d, who is now Mr. Bush's Secretary of State.
Mr. Darman's status in the Bush Administration has been enhanced by the warm relations he has developed with Mr. Sununu, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady and Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. Mr. Boskin speaks especially highly of Mr. Darman. ''He has an amazing ability,'' Mr. Boskin said, ''to deal simultaneously with a large number of very complicated issues and to do all of them well without letting any of them fall through the cracks.''
 
Object of Many Barbs
But elsewhere in the Government, one hears little but barbs about Mr. Darman. He has caused several Cabinet members embarrassment by forcing them into public retreats on controversial issues, as has happened in at least three cases.
Not surprisingly, officials in those departments speak disparagingly of Mr. Darman. So do most of the career budget analysts who work under Mr. Darman. They say he is contemptuous of them and their work and derides them in public.
Thomas E. Mann, director of government studies at the Brookings Institution, believes Mr. Darman's main problem is that he serves as a lightning rod for opponents of President Bush's policy of no new taxes. ''He does the President's work, and he does it well,'' Mr. Mann said. ''But people think someone as smart and knowledgeable as Darman ought to be able to turn the President around.''
But others attribute Mr. Darman's difficulty in getting along with some people to his unpredictably kaleidoscopic personality.
 
Witty, Loyal and Shrewd
He can be charming, as he was early last year when he approached Representative Dan Rostenkowski, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and apologized to the powerful Illinois Democrat for the difficulties they had during the fight over tax legislation in 1985 and 1986, when Mr. Darman was President Reagan's deputy secretary of the Treasury. Mr. Rostenkowski agreed to bury the hatchet.
And loyal, as he has proved to the four Republican Presidents and six Cabinet secretaries he has served over the years.
And shrewd, as he was when he promoted Senator John Glenn's pet plan to make the Environmental Protection Agency a Cabinet department. Senator Glenn, an Ohio Democrat, is especially important to Mr. Darman because he is chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Office of Management and Budget.
But he can also be insulting, as he has often been when staff members brought him work that did not meet his high standards.
And vindictive, as he was a few years ago after Larry Speakes, then the White House spokesman, described Mr. Darman as ''the ultimate second-guesser.'' As Mr. Speakes recounts the incident in his book, ''Speaking Out,'' he received this handwritten note from Mr. Darman: ''It has been my experience that the wheel turns 'round and 'round in this town. Please be assured that the next time I am in a position to influence the prospects of your success, failure or capacity to serve, I shall remember your thoughts.''
 
Blamed for Deeds of Others
And deceptive, as he appeared when he told Congress he had to postpone the submission of the budget this year from Jan. 22 to Jan. 29 because Congress had been tardy last year in approving and sending him necessary documents. The primary cause of the delay, White House officials said, was that Mr. Darman, for political reasons, wanted less time between the delivery of the budget and Mr. Bush's State of the Union address, scheduled for Wednesday.
No one interviewed in the Administration will criticize Mr. Darman for publication. One top official, explaining why he could not be quoted about Mr. Darman, referred a reporter to the passage in Mr. Speakes' book.
At times, Mr. Darman has been faulted for the decisions and actions of others. For example, last October, Treasury Secretary Brady announced that he was advancing the Treasury's regular borrowing schedule to raise money to pay Social Security benefits. The maneuver cost the Government about $20 million but undercut one of the Democrats' best arguments in the capital gains fight: that the President's intransigence would stop checks from going out. Senator Bentsen expressed outrage and blamed Mr. Darman for the tactic. But Mr. Brady and others said after the storm had passed that the decision had been Mr. Brady's alone.
''When a guy like Darman gets this reputation, God knows what he gets blamed for that someone else was responsible for,'' a veteran Senate staff assistant said.
 
Exercising Personal Control
Lawmakers like Senator Glenn who have dealt with Mr. Darman on matters that did not involve the budget deficit gave him high marks. Senator Glenn praised Mr. Darman for improving the management of the Government and said, ''He has never given me a fast shuffle.''
Mr. Darman has taken an extraordinary amount of personal control over the Administration's budget that will be released Monday. He has personally reviewed every page of the document the size of a big city's telephone book and has edited much of it himself, not just for substance but also for writing style. His unusual personal essay introducing and summarizing the budget and setting forth themes for the present and future is also a departure from past practice.
Presenting all the information in one book, several officials said, was done for convenience and structure. They insisted that nothing of consequence was left out and that Mr. Darman had no ulterior motive in changing the normal format.
How well Mr. Darman will be able to sell this budget to Congress is another matter.
''A lot of mistrust has built up that's going to hurt his effectiveness,'' said Stanley E. Collender, a Federal budget specialist here for Price Waterhouse, the accounting firm. ''That's a damning thing for a budget director who's got to make deals and keep them.''

GRAPHIC: photo: Richard G. Darman (NYT/Paul Hosefros)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); TAX LAW (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); AGING (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; DARMAN, RICHARD G (DIR); DARMAN, RICHARD G (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



689 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: Challenge for Panamanians: A Canal in Transition

BYLINE: By DAVID E. PITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIRAFLORES LOCKS, Panama, Jan. 28

 BODY:
Most first-time visitors to this famous vantage point on the Panama Canal, eight miles from the Pacific, come away dazzled by the majesty of the 51.2-mile waterway and the near-miraculous ingenuity and sacrifice that went into its construction more than 75 years ago.
But Fernando Manfredo Jr., who escorted Vice President Dan Quayle on a brief tour of the canal today, wishes people would try to think of the place in more down-to-earth terms.
Mr. Manfredo, who took over Jan. 1 as the first Panamanian to administer the canal since it opened in 1914, often escorts well-known tourists around the vistors' center at the Miraflores Locks, and he says he has developed a routine.
''A lot of our guests come in thinking of the canal as some historic monument or curiosity, or as something that has to be protected,'' said Mr. Manfredo, who studied management at Harvard Business School. ''I try to get them to see that it's a commercial enterprise and that we depend on business from the outside.'' 
 
'Keep the Canal Efficient'
Now that Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega is out of the picture, Mr. Manfredo said, Panamanians must find ways ''to keep the canal efficient,'' so that by the time they take over from the Americans at the end of 1999, as specified under the 1979 canal treaties, the waterway will still be a major source of income and not merely Panama's answer to the Great Pyramids.
''Our users were very much concerned by the prospect that the canal was going to be in the hands of a dictator,'' said Mr. Manfredo, who is acting head of the Panama Canal Commission, the 10-year-old United States Government agency that is to operate the waterway until 1999. ''Now I think the Panamanian Government has to show that it can manage the canal efficiently.''
At the height of Panama's political and economic turmoil, many of the Canal Commission's 7,602 employees, more than 85 percent of them Panamanian, were harassed and threatened by the Noriega Government. Mr. Manfredo said that two days before the United States invasion, he learned that the general had been plotting ''my physical elimination.''
The canal employees also found themselves caught by United States economic sanctions. When the Reagan Administration suspended canal revenue payments to Panama in April 1988, General Noriega retaliated by virtually banning them from activities like traveling abroad, receiving packages in the mail and even registering cars.
 
Revenue Is Off
But through it all, ship traffic on the canal was hardly disrupted. In fact, canal economists say, none of the waterway's business problems in the last six years have had anything to do with General Noriega, who avoided any action that the Americans could interpret as a threat to the canal.
Since 1986, about 12,000 ships have used the waterway each year, although last year's toll revenue declined $10 million from 1988, to $329 million. Tolls are based on vessel size and cargo. Economists say the drop was caused by plummeting grain sales, a slump in imports of Japanese cars, and economic slowdowns in Japan and the United States.
The new civilian Government has immediate and long-term decisions to make about the waterway. For one thing, the Panamanians will have decide whether they want to try to operate the canal at a profit. Over the last decade, the Americans have run it as a break-even operation, as mandated by Congress; since 1979, it has taken in $4 billion and spent $4 billion.
In the short term, Mr. Manfredo and other canal officials say, Panama needs to demonstrate to shippers that it is committed to running the waterway in a businesslike fashion. The most obvious place to begin, they think, is to rehabilitate the canal's two ports, Balboa, on the Gulf of Panama, and Cristobal, on the Caribbean near Colon, the country's second largest city. The Government runs both ports.
Balboa, where ships enter from the Pacific Ocean, is mainly a refueling and servicing depot; Cristobal, on the Atlantic side, handles a huge volume of goods going through the Colon Free Zone, the world's largest duty-free port after Hong Kong.
Under General Noriega, Balboa, Cristobal and the country's nine other ports fell into the same spiral of graft and corruption as other Government agencies. Maintenance and security fell off, docks rotted, equipment rusted and pilferage spread. The decline accelerated under the effects of the American sanctions and sporadic disputes between the Government and dock workers' unions.
''Noriega appointed a lot of people who knew little or nothing about running the system, and now the ports are a total mess,'' said Richard A. Wainio, an American who is director of planning at the Canal Commission.
 
Ports Need Money
''If they're going to spend their limited funds wisely, they're going to have to concentrate on the ports,'' Mr. Wainio said. ''That would be a positive sign that Panama really means business.''
Mr. Manfredo said the Government of President Guillermo Endara had taken an important first step by naming Jerry Salazar, a highly experienced lawyer and engineer, as the new director of the National Port Authority.
General Noriega used to say he built his 15,000-member military in part to fulfill a treaty requirement that Panama prepare to defend the canal. Mr. Manfredo smiles at that explanation.
Only three threats face the canal in 1990, he says: landslides of the sort that forced it to close for nine months in 1914 (the only shutdown in its history until the 24-hour closure caused by the United States invasion on Dec. 20); the uncontrolled growth of aquatic weeds, which can foul propellers unless regularly cut back, and the remote possibility that the canal's 230 licensed ships' pilots could strike ''and close us down tomorrow.''
But Mr. Manfredo, who turns 63 years old on Monday, has one other worry: that the Endara Government may not appoint him as permanent canal administrator. At the moment, he is in an acting capacity, and there are at least two other contenders for the job.
Although Mr. Manfredo is the most experienced of the candidates, having served 10 years as deputy to the former American administrator, Dennis P. McAuliffe, his past political associations may prove a liability. He was a close adviser of General Noriega's predecessor, Gen. Omar Torrijos Herrera, who came to power after a military coup in 1968. And he remains a member of the Democratic Revolutionary Party, which represented the military in elections as recently as last May.
Whatever happens, Mr. Manfredo expects it to be an improvement over the ordeal he says he underwent at the hands of General Noriega shortly before the invasion, when he defied the general and accepted President Bush's offer to extend his term as deputy administrator. By agreeing to stay on, Mr. Manfredo would have become acting administrator automatically, since by law the American administrator had to step down and be succeeded by a Panamanian no later than Jan. 1.
But Mr. Manfredo said the general wanted to nominate a political crony to the post, knowing the United States would never accept any candidate he put forward. General Noriega would then be able to tell the world that the Bush Administration had violated the canal treaties.
 
Harassment, Then Intimidation
Besides gaining a domestic political advantage, Mr. Manfredo said, ''Noriega wanted to put the Latin American countries in a very embarrassing position: they could either support the United States, or they could support him in his allegation that the treaties had been violated.''
Mr. Manfredo said his refusal to step down from his canal post infuriated the general, who quickly struck back.
''In the beginning, it was a campaign of pure harassment,'' Mr. Manfredo recalled. ''Then he escalated it to pure intimidation. I received threats that all my assets were going to be confiscated, and that I was going to be deprived of my citizenship and thrown in jail.''
But ''when they didn't see any reaction on my behalf,'' he said, ''a new campaign was begun on the national level to say that I was a traitor.''
On Dec. 18, Mr. Manfredo said, a friend in the military whispered to him that a new plan had been hatched. ''He told me that I was to be executed by a Panamanian patriot,'' Mr. Manfredo said. He responded by ''instructing my wife in how to transfer money from my bank account in case I was murdered.''
''Otherwise, I decided to continue my activities as usual,'' he went on. ''I didn't want to give these people the impression I was afraid.''
Two days later the invasion began, and Mr. Manfredo and his family were spirited away to an American base.

GRAPHIC: map of Panama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: PANAMA CANAL COMMISSION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA CANAL AND CANAL ZONE; PANAMA; JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TOLLS; GRAIN; AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); HISTORIC SITES (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: MANFREDO, FERNANDO JR; NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN); PITT, DAVID E JAMES DANFORTH 'DAN' QUAYLE (57%); 



690 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: New Market Journal;
Nurturing New Seeds In a Garden Of Hopes

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW MARKET, Tenn., Jan. 24

 BODY:
''Public Auction Wipes Out Last of Highlander School'' read a 1962 newspaper headline, noting the apparent demise of the Highlander Folk School, one of the legendary incubators of the civil rights movement.
But when the school's founder, Myles Horton, died last week, some 58 years after the school's founding and 28 years after its apparent last gasp, he left behind an institution that is not only alive, but remains one of the most stubbornly tenacious instruments for social change in the nation.
''From its start, this has been one of the few places that takes seriously the notion that grass-roots people, dispossessed people, who do not have money or power or much formal education can solve their own problems,'' said Candie Carawan, who has spent most of the past 30 years working with the school, now the Highlander Research and Education Center.
Mr. Horton founded Highlander in 1932 in Monteagle, Tenn., in one of the nation's poorest regions, and it soon became one of the most important training grounds for union organizers in the South. 
In the 1950's, it shifted its focus to desegregation. It sponsored workshops, where people like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Rosa Parks and John Lewis argued late into the night about the direction of civil rights movement. It gave birth to Septima Clark's famous ''citizenship schools,'' where thousands of blacks learned to read and write so they could vote.
Highlander was considered subversive enough that Tennessee officials tried to shut it down. But when they succeeded in revoking the Monteagle school's charter in 1960, Mr. Horton relocated to Knoxville and then to the serene 110-acre site in northeastern Tennessee between the Cumberlands and the Smokies, where the school operates under its current status as the Highlander Research and Education Center.
Highlander's work did not end with civil rights. Much of its energy in recent years has been spent working with poor rural communities of Appalachia, fighting economic decay and environmental problems.
The center, which has a staff of 17 people and an annual budget of $800,000, has concentrated recently on environmental issues throughout the South. About 1,000 people attended workshops last year.
If the content differs widely, the format is much the same as it was in the civil rights era. Participants still come to a wood-frame hilltop meeting room bathed in light, where they sit in a circle in aged rocking chairs and share ideas. It still rings with the fading culture of the South, whether it be the dulcimer music of the Appalachian hills or the dances of the South Carolina Sea Islands.
Instead of outside experts, its participants are craggy-faced coal miners, mountain housewives turned environmental activists or rural blacks. The emphasis is still on what ordinary people can achieve, whether they be poor blacks seeking voting rights or poor whites fighting a toxic waste dump. ''The issues change, but the philosophy remains the same,'' said John Gaventa, a former Rhodes scholar and the center's director.
Still, what has changed is at least as significant. Mr. Gaventa says the challenges are as important now as in the civil rights era, but much of the work in small towns throughout the South like Minden, W. Va.,, Aliceville, Ala., or Lumberton, N.C., can seem invisible without the unifying focus of an overriding national movement.
Similarly, he said, Highlander now deals in a more complex environment where issues of pollution and economic displacement have to be viewed in an international context and communities are often torn by competing economic and environmental pressures.
''We're trying to find a way to save jobs and save the river, but no one wants to sit down and talk about it,'' said Stephen Hodges of Hartford, Tenn., who has worked with Highlander trying to solve pollution problems caused by the Champion International paper plant in Canton, N.C. ''What I like about Highlander is that they don't try to come in and take over.''
When Mr. Horton died Jan. 19, the center planted two dogwoods in his memory - a reminder that the seed he planted still grows.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (91%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: HIGHLANDER RESEARCH&EDUCATION CENTER (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: HIGHLANDER RESEARCH AND EDUCATION CENTER

GEOGRAPHIC: ;APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CIVIL RIGHTS; LABOR; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES CIVIL RIGHTS (93%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (85%); MOUNTAINS (85%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); RELOCATIONS (63%); COAL MINING (50%); 

PERSON: GAVENTA, JOHN; APPLEBOME, PETER MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (77%); JOHN LEWIS (57%); 



691 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1771 words

HEADLINE: Washington at Work;
Japanese Author Brushes Up His Image With Journey to U.S. Enemy's Lair

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28

 BODY:
He wears $800 Saville Row suits and $80 Georgio Armani ties. He plays tennis, he sails, he paints, he writes best sellers. He has represented a Tokyo constituency in the Parliament for the past 22 years. But Shintaro Ishihara is an angry man caught in a name-calling game.
He has emerged in the American press with the label ''right-wing Japanese author.'' He responds with charges of racism.
He is angry at Americans for behaving ''more like mad dogs than watch dogs'' and for the racist feelings he believes they harbor against the Japanese. 
He is also angry at his own people, for bowing to American economic and trade demands and not using their technology for greater global leverage. And he is angry that a book in which these and other such incendiary thoughts are expressed, ''The Japan That Can Say No,'' which he wrote with Akio Morita, the chairman of the Sony Corporation, is being circulated here without authorization by - and payment to - the authors.
 
Embodiment of New Sour Mood
What makes this all significant is that Mr. Ishihara has become the embodiment of a new sour mood in Japanese-American relations. Indeed, alert to the threat vacuum left by the Soviet thaw, culture critics were warning that Americans might turn on Japan even before Mr. Ishihara's views became known here. The reaction has been fanned by an English translation of his book, paid for by the Pentagon and entered into the Congressional Record in November at the request of Representative Sander M. Levin, a Michigan Democrat.
And so, this month Mr. Ishihara spent three days in Washington seeking to brush up his image.
Critic though he is of the American way, he took to it naturally, figuring out the public relations value of being seen meeting on Capitol Hill with his enemies in the United States' protectionism caucus. The third-ranking candidate for prime minister in 1989, accused of spurring Japanese jingoism, sat down with, among others, Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader who was charged by his rivals for the 1988 Democratic Presidential nomination of running on an economic nationalist plank.
To set up things for him in Washington, Mr. Ishihara used the Washington office of a St. Louis-based public relations firm, Fleishman Hillard, Inc. Its Tokyo affiliate, the Tokyu Agency Inc., is managed by one of Mr. Ishihara's oldest friends, Matahiko Imaoka, a fellow yachtsman.
 
'Beyond the Pale'
But not even this influential firm could open all the doors. Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, chairman of the Finance Committee's Subcommittee on International Trade, turned down an offered appointment. Through an aide, Mr. Baucus said that although he has traditionally maintained an open-door policy United States-bashing at Mr. Ishihara's volume level ''is a little beyond the pale.''
Some samples of Mr. Ishihara's writing:
''The only reason'' Americans could use the atomic bomb against Japan in World War II, Mr. Ishihara said, was ''their racial attitude toward Japan,'' adding that American racism is ''based on the cultural belief that the modern era is the creation of the white race, including Americans.''
The United States had better straighten out economically, he wrote, or it might suffer the consequences. ''If, for example, Japan sold chips to the Soviet Union and stopped selling them to the U.S., this would upset the entire military balance.''
Mr. Ishihara told the Americans who would see him in the private meetings that because of ''mistranslations'' and ''deletions'' the unauthorized version of his book distorted his ideas. His objective in writing the book was really to make the Japanese-American partnership ''tighter and more productive,'' he said.
''I think that at long last Japan has become a major league ball player after being in the minor league for so long,'' Mr. Isihara told Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, the senior Republican on the Agriculture Committee and former chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, a Lugar aide said. ''Japan and the U.S. should be a battery,'' Mr. Ishihara added.
''We talked about misconceptions on both sides,'' said Representative Levin, who had lunch with him in the Power Court Restaurant of the Phoenix Park Hotel on Capitol Hill. ''I think it was useful that he was here.''
It was ''a good honest discussion,'' said aides to Mr. Gephardt, who declined to go into the substance of the meeting in the majority leader's Capitol Hill office.
 
Barbs, in Nautical Terms
And then there was the session in Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher's high-ceilinged office looking out over the Mall and the Washington Monument. The Secretary reminded Mr. Ishihara that under a little-known section of trade law known as Section 232 at the Commerce Department, relating to the reliability of suppliers to the United States Government, Japan could suffer considerable economic damage if it sold semiconductors to the Soviet Union.
Mr. Ishihara blanched, a Commerce Department aide said, and then said that for his part he was upset by polls in the United States showing that Japan is perceived a greater threat to American future well-being than the Soviet Union. Such conclusions are ''frivolous'' and ''dangerous,'' Mr. Ishihara said.
The two men discovered their mutual love of the sea. Mr. Mosbacher, a world-class yachtsman, used nautical images to zing his guest over the FSX, the fighter aircraft that the two countries agreed to build together after a prolonged and bitter dispute. Japan ''wanted to get the whole boat and give nothing back for jib and tiller technology from America,'' the Secretary said.
Mr. Mosbacher said he hoped to be able to write a sequel to the Ishihara book, called, ''The Japan That Can Say Yes And Mean It.''
All in all, most of the Americans who saw the Japanese politician here said they found him not nearly as frightening as his advance billing suggested. ''There's a discrepancy between what he reportedly says and what he actually says,'' noted an aide to Senator Lugar who sat in on the meeting with Mr. Ishihara.
 
Personal Protectionism Issue
They also said that, invariably, Mr. Ishihara raised a personal protectionism issue, appealing for the kind of help his critics say he would deny Americans in Japan. Since he has gained no royalties from circulation of the unauthorized book, Mr. Ishihara said, he is really one of the latest victims of intellectual property piracy. And he would like the Japanese Government, a frequent target of Washington's unfair trade complaints, to file formal charges of copyright infringement against the United States.
''I have brought up this issue with the Japanese Writers Association as well as the Japanese Pen Club,'' he said in an interview. ''Some say that in America my book is a 'non-best seller.' If so, I have incurred a lot of economic damage. Who is going to compensate me for that damage?''
Mr. Levin said he acted without compunction in entering the work in the Congressional Record, from which thousands of photocopies have apparently been made. ''It seemed to me we should be able to read what we were talking about,'' he said. ''I feel when it comes to allies that we ought to be able to say to each other what we are saying to ourselves.''
The Defense Department's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the Government's coordinator of efforts to enhance national competitiveness in semiconductors, high-definition television and computing, ordered the translation.
It was, said Pete Williams, the Penatgon spokeman, a routine operation. Agency ''managers needing access to foreign language literature not available on a timely basis from other sources, can obtain access,'' he said. ''The material is available only for official'' use, he said, adding that such translation, for internal Defense Department purposes, is ''not a violation of any copyright restriction.''
 
New, American Version
Hence another lesson for Mr. Ishihara. The American bureaucracy may not be as formidable as Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry, but it is beating him with its rulebook all the same.
As for the prospects for an authorized publication, they are blocked by Mr. Morita, the co-author, whose company gets one-third of its global revenues from the American market. Mr. Morita maintains that he was ''not fully aware'' of Mr. Ishihara's sentiments about America and Japan and now ''regrets'' being involved, said Stephen M. Burke, Sony Corporation of America's director of public affairs.
''The book, as it stands, is confusing and inflammatory,'' Mr. Burke said, while noting that as for any customer backlash, ''I don't think anyone has sent back their product.''
Mr. Ishihara is now hoping to get an official American version into print here minus Mr. Morita's contribution. That, of course, would not be the same book that has sold more than half a million copies in Japan; the book is actually a series of individual speeches made in Japan by the two men over a period of months and then packaged by an enterprising Japanese publisher.
In effect, the American version would be expurgated for Americans. Or, as Mr. Ishihara put it, ''Because there are parts that need elaboration, parts that could be easily misunderstood, we want to elaborate on the general theme and add some background information.''
Presumably the elaborating will start in March, after Japan's elections in February, when Mr. Ishihara is planning another trip to the United States. One of his tentatively scheduled events is a visit to a town meeting in Michigan, at the suggestion of Representative Levin, whose constitutents have been hard hit by Japanese auto sales. Mr. Levin has been asked to reciprocate in Tokyo.
But the hands across the sea mood went only so far. Mr. Ishihara stuck to his guns on the issue that has probably caused the greatest resentment here: American racism.
In his book Mr. Ishihara wrote that the ''roots of the U.S.-Japan friction lie in the soil of racial prejudice.''
In an interview, he expanded on these thoughts, noting that ''there are different emotions and sentiments at work'' in the relationship with the United States, ''but at the bottom of this psychological and emotional sentiment there is a certain sense of superiority toward the Japanese.''
Asked whether he thought his book would help him some day to become Japan's prime minister, which he acknowledged was his ambition, he said he thought that it might actually work negatively.
''Many Japanese are still saying, 'Better hush and not say these things,' '' he said.

GRAPHIC: photo: Shintaro Ishihara, a Parliament minister who says racism led the American press to label him a ''right-wing Japanese author,'' typifies a new sour tone in Japanese-American relations. (NYT/Jose R. Lopez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (69%); SNE (NYSE) (69%); 6758 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (62%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (69%); TOKYU AGENCY INC (62%); FLEISHMAN-HILLARD INC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US WRITERS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (74%); ASIAN AMERICANS (71%); RACE & RACISM (71%); CAUCUSES (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%); 

PERSON: ISHIHARA, SHINTARO; FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H MAX BAUCUS (52%); SANDER M LEVIN (52%); 



692 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Boston Banks Agree to Fight Racial Disparity in Mortgages

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
Faced with a new study showing a wide racial disparity in mortgage lending, a group of Boston banks has agreed to take part in a $430 million program to narrow the gap.
Last August the Federal Reserve Bank here reported that whites were twice as likely as blacks to receive mortgages, even when conditions like income and market value were taken into account. The new study, commissioned by the city, found an even wider disparity.
The $430 million program was announced on the national holiday honoring the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. It came as the city was focusing on race relations in the wake of the Charles Stuart case, in which a white man's claim that he and his wife were abducted, robbed and shot by a black man was eventually declared false. 
The program evolved through months of negotiations among bank representatives, city officials and blacks. Some have hailed the agreement as the most comprehensive of its kind. Others are more cautious, saying it is the first step on a long road.
 
'It's a Start'
''I don't know how many people it's going to reach, but it's more than we had before,'' said Diana Strother, a co-chairwoman of the Homebuyers Union, a community group that took part in negotiations with the city and the banks. ''It's a start, and it gives people a ray of light to look forward to.''
The move comes at a time when the state's economy is faltering and most banks are reeling from one of their worst years in recent memory. Bad real-estate loans, many in condominiums here and in other states, are being blamed for heavy losses. This week, the Bank of New England announced a $1.05 billion loss for the year, and it may be sold or turned over to Federal regulators.
Critics say the banks could have avoided heavy losses by investing in the neighborhoods they ignored, rather than in speculative ventures in Florida and elsewhere.
''What we're saying is that if people had stayed close to home and invested in the community, we'd have a stronger economy and stronger banks,'' said Stephen Coyle, director of the Boston Redevelopment Authority, which commissioned the city's study on lending bias.
Mr. Coyle and other critics say the problem was fostered by ignorance about black neighborhoods that led to institutional discrimination against them. Properties in these neighborhoods were often appraised as risky ventures for the banks when it came to lending money. But some experts say that because of the high demand for urban housing, supported by state and Federal housing programs, such a home can easily be rented if the mortgage holder defaults and the bank has to take over the property.
 
Lower Interest Rates
A major sticking point in the negotiations with the banks was whether to provide mortgages at below-market rates. Banks do not like such mortgages, not only because they bring in lower interest but also because they tie up money that could be lent at market rates.
City officials won a small concession there. The package includes $60 million for low-rate mortgages, usually a percentage point below market levels, for people buying their first homes. Half the money will be designated for Boston.
The package also includes $100 million for mortgages at market rates but with flexible terms, like reduced down payments; $50 million in Federal tax credits for investing in low-income housing, and $5 million from the banks in equity capital for minority-owned businesses. The banks have also agreed to finance $100 million in new low-cost housing, mostly in Boston. Potential risk will be shared by all the banks involved.
The banks view parts of the new program as risky and a sacrifice, especially since it comes at a time of heavy losses for many of them.
''Our timing would have been better if we'd done this five years ago,'' said Grady B. Hedgespeth, director of governmental and community affairs for the Bank of Boston, which recorded a $70 million profit last year, down from $322 million in 1988. The bank lost $244 million last year from bad real estate loans, according to its year-end earnings report.
To bankers who object to issuing below-market mortgages, some experts reply that developers trying to sell condominiums in the present market glut are offering similar discounts. Those condominiums ''just happen to be in these non-minority areas,'' said Ronald A. Homer, president and chief executive officer of the Boston Bank of Commerce, which has invested substantially in minority neighborhoods and posted a 10 percent rise in profits last year.
He added that the bank attracted many potential homeowners by offering flexible terms, like allowing people to spend a higher proportion of their incomes on mortgage payments and to put as little as 10 percent down.
The city's study found that from 1981 to 1987, mortgages were issued to white applicants nearly three times as often as to black applicants who met the same criteria in categories like income, credit history and liabilities. And the gap widened, to 3.4 to 1, when federally backed mortgage loans, for which the banks take little risk, were eliminated.
The Federal Reserve study, covering 1982 to 1987, found an imbalance of about 2 to 1 in favor of whites.
Ms. Strother, of the Homebuyers Union, said, ''A lot of the people I know who have homes went to mortgage companies because they didn't qualify at the banks.'' Those companies charge considerably higher interest than banks do.
The city's study also pointed out imbalances in the numbers of bank branches and automated teller machines in white and black neighborhoods. The neighborhoods of Mattapan and Roxbury, which are predominantly black, have at least 16.6 percent of the city's population but only 4 percent of the bank branches and teller machines.
 
Enforcement of Laws
Part of the problem, many officials said, is the Federal and state governments do not adequately enforce laws requiring banks to serve all neighborhoods of the areas in which they are chartered.
In the absence of a state agency to enforce the law, the city plans to issue periodic ''report cards,'' rating individual bank performance in community reinvestment, Mr. Coyle said. The city also plans to deposit its money only in banks that reinvest in the community.
''It's not the greatest leverage in the world, but it is leverage,'' Mr. Coyle said. ''Our concern is to educate the entire community on this issue.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (53%); BOSTON REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BOSTON (MASS)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; BLACKS (IN US) BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); CITIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (70%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (68%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (68%); COMPANY LOSSES (68%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



693 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Don't Cut Israel and Others to Aid East Europe

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I disagree with my colleague and leader Senator Bob Dole on cutting foreign aid allocations to help emerging democracies in Eastern Europe and elsewhere (Op-Ed, Jan. 16). The idea that aid to these nations requires penalizing our friends and allies is neither logical, correct nor necessary.
The foreign aid accounts of the United States Government, while they receive much attention, are embarrassingly small. From statements on the floor of the Senate and news releases sent back home, one would conclude that if this item in the Federal budget alone could be contained, the deficit would soon be in hand. 
The foreign aid budget constitutes slightly more than 1 percent of Federal spending. Not many years ago, it was more than 2 percent, so those who argue for less have already been successful.
Each of the aid recipients Senator Dole mentions - Egypt, Israel, Pakistan, the Philippines and Turkey -has seen its aid decrease in real terms in recent years.
If the United States picks this moment to reduce its aid to the Middle East, this reduction in our commitment would undermine the likelihood of progress on peace. In the shadowy currents of Middle East politics, a partial withdrawal of the United States commitment would be seen as a victory for those most intransigent - a signal to increase the pressure so that the United States would further erode its support to our friends and allies. Moreover, the threats of terrorism, chemical warfare and ballistic missiles hang over Israel, Egypt and other friendly nations in the Middle East, giving them additional substantive reasons for looking to us for aid.
If Senator Dole is looking for funds to aid the emerging democracies of Eastern Europe, he need not go so far afield. While technically not part of the foreign aid account in the Federal budget, the bulk of our spending overseas - perhaps as much as 90 percent - is found in the military budget. Most of that is spent in Europe to protect North Atlantic Treaty Organization and American interests against the military forces of the very countries that are now democratizing and, presumably, pose less of a threat.
Furthermore, we are protecting developed West European economies far stronger and more able to afford such expenditures than the foreign aid recipients Senator Dole seeks to penalize. These European nations spend barely 3 percent of their gross national product on defense, while we spend twice that. Why should they spend more when a generous and rich uncle is willing to pick up the tab? The main source of economic aid to Eastern Europe should come from its neighbors to the west.
The second large area of our defense expenditures overseas is in the Far East. Including naval expenditures in the region, our costs there surely are five or six times greater than the entire aid package under attack by Senator Dole. Yet the Japanese spend barely 1 percent of gross national product on defense. We provide huge subsidies to our principal trade competitors - Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Europe - by underwriting their defense.
If our defense expenditures were largely taken over by our allies, our deficit would be wiped out and interest rates lowered, more funds would be available for research and development, and we could better compete and rebuild our infrastructure.
I don't suggest we abandon our allies. But surely the enormous funds spent in Europe and the Far East protecting the wealthiest countries in the world could far more easily and more appropriately be diverted in small part to assist democracies in those very same regions.
It would be a most destabilizing mistake to divert money and moral support from developing democracies like Pakistan, the Philippines and Turkey or from the caldron of the Middle East.
 
RUDY BOSCHWITZ
U.S. Senator from Minnesota
 Washington, Jan. 18, 1990

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EGYPT (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); PHILIPPINES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST; PANAMA; EUROPE, WEST; JAPAN; ISRAEL, STATE OF

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TERRORISM (64%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); 

PERSON: DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN); BOSCHWITZ, RUDY (SEN) ELIZABETH DOLE (70%); ROBERT J DOLE (70%); 



694 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: Affordable Housing Issue Ruffles Idyllic Westchester

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: NORTH SALEM, N.Y., Jan. 26

 BODY:
In a court battle over the future of Peach Lake, two suburban imperatives are colliding in this remote corner of Westchester County: the need for affordable housing and the yearning for open spaces.
A developer who wants to build nearly 200 condominiums on the lakefront says North Salem stole the value of his land when it adopted new zoning rules that barred multifamily housing. Moreover, he says, the town turned a deaf ear to the region's housing crisis.
In its defense, North Salem, with 4,800 residents among wooded hills and horse farms, says its zoning plan is one of the most environmentally sound in the county. Town officials say it is not ''exclusionary'' zoning. 
 
Broad Ruling Sought
The trial, which began this week in State Supreme Court in White Plains, is being watched closely by builders and local officials far from Peach Lake. For the developer's lawyer, Stuart R. Shamberg, is pressing for a court mandate that would require all municipalities in New York to amend their zoning ordinances to encourage affordable housing.
He would like to win a version of New Jersey's Mount Laurel rulings, which held that all communities have a constitutional obligation to provide a fair share of a region's low- and moderate-income housing and allowed developers to build more units than local zoning permitted in return for selling some at low prices.
Westchester County planning officials and housing advocates here say Mr. Shamberg's case may just be solid enough and the time right for New York to adopt such a mandate. ''There's no doubt that this case has the potential to be significant,'' said Larry C. Salley, deputy commissioner of planning in the county's Division of Housing and Community Development. ''It goes beyond one town's action to the broader issue of how that action fits in with the overall regional housing picture. Here in Westchester, it's pretty bleak.''
 
Builder Seeking Millions
The 34-year-old developer, Lawrence M. Clifford, president of the Continental Building Company of White Plains, is suing the Town of North Salem and seven former Planning Board members for millions of dollars each. The town's rezoning in 1987 drastically reduced his land value and future profits, he said. Where before he could build 184 condominiums on his 63 acres on Peach Lake, now he can build only 18 single-family houses.
The case has evoked sharply different reactions from planning experts and proponents of affordable housing, many of whom share the same goals.
''Given its location, overall character and lack of infrastructure, North Salem is probably the least appropriate place to focus new development,'' said John A. Humbach, an associate dean of the Pace University Law School whose academic speciality is land-use regulation. ''It would be a shame if 25 or 50 years from now people had to drive up to Columbia County to find a farm.''
But Joseph Dzaluk, the executive director of the Westchester Housing Forum, a private, nonprofit organization that promotes affordable housing for the working middle class, said, ''What North Salem did is an outrage, and it's what precipitates lawsuits.'' But Is It Affordable? Mr. Shamberg is not new to pivotal cases. A partner in the Mount Kisco law firm of Shamberg, Marwell, Cherneff & Hocherman, he challenged New Castle in 1977 on behalf of a builder who wanted to put up condominiums, resulting in a landmark decision known as the Berenson Doctrine.
It held that a municipality had to consider the region's needs and therefore could not exclude multifamily housing. The decision had the effect of a mandate in the county and established a precedent in the state, county planning officials say.
At the time the assumption was that multifamily housing meant affordable housing. But much of the multifamily housing built in the last 10 years turned out to be luxury town houses. Now Mr. Shamberg is hoping that on an appeal to the state's highest court, a ruling might guarantee housing in every community that is not only multifamily, but also affordable.
''The wider issue is what is a muncipality's moral and social responsiblity when it is in the middle of a region that has a severe housing crisis,'' Mr. Shamberg said.
 
Profit Motive Suspected
To many in North Salem, where gentle hills still frame lakes and farms, his position is suspiciously high and mighty. They suspect that the primary motive in the suit is improving profits, and their cynicism is fueled by the vocal - and monetary - support that Mr. Clifford has received from the building industry.
''The builders would love to have Mount Laurel in New York because it would be great for business,'' said Karen Iacovelli, editor of The Rural Press, a quarterly periodical, and a former member of the North Salem Planning Board who was not named in the suit.
''The hypocrisy is that in the last 10 years, it's the builders themselves who reaped the greatest benefit from large-lot zoning,'' she said. ''But all of a sudden the bottom fell out of the housing market, and the builders have no place to go, so you keep hearing this phrase affordable housing.''
Indeed Mr. Clifford's condominiums, as originally planned, would not have been affordable at all, with an average two-bedroom town house selling in the mid- to upper-$200,000 range. Now, though, because of the mushy housing market, the builder said he would consider garden apartments priced on the average below $200,000 - still ''unaffordable'' according to strict housing guidelines.
But Mr. Clifford has pledged that if he is allowed to build 184 units of the less-expensive garden apartments and that if the court issues a Mount Laurel type of ruling, he will also construct affordable housing. In the past, North Salem officials have said affordable units should sell for approximately $85,000.
 
Land Planning Faulted
Mr. Shamberg and his supporters say North Salem has a history of arrogance in land planning.
In 1981 a state judge ordered the town to redraw its zoning map to allow multifamily housing after another developer sued. The town complied, delineating six areas for about 350 town houses and condominiums scattered across 22 square miles.
But several years later, when the town decided to redo its entire ordinance to stave off the development consuming its neighbor, Somers - where International Business Machines and Pepsico were building office complexes - it abolished five of the six multifamily zones, including Mr. Clifford's. The town also added one, bringing the total to two multifamily zones.
The Westchester County Planning Department praised the new ordinance as an environmental model that protected slopes, vistas and wetlands, while accounting for a sparse network of narrow roads, a lack of sewers and a reliance on well water. But the department ultimately objected to the zoning changes on the ground that they hampered the town's ability to contribute housing to the county.
 
Housing Quota Unmet
In 1980 the County Planning Department, citing a shortage of all forms of housing that threatened to undermine its economy, asked each municipality to project the number of new units it could produce over 10 years. North Salem estimated its contribution at 393 units, but as of 1988, only 160 units had been completed.
''They had not met their target, and here they were taking steps that would further reduce the number of multifamily units in the town,'' said the County Planning Commissioner, Peter Q. Eschweiller.
Countering those criticisms, town officials stress that the town's ordinance, in addition to encouraging accessory apartments, rewards builders for setting aside some homes with affordable prices by permitting them extra units, or greater density, along the lines of what Mr. Shamberg is seeking.
For example, a development now under construction in one of the town's two multifamily zones would ordinarily hold 71 units. But with the affordable-housing bonus, the builder is putting up 14 additional units, about half of which will priced according to a formula.
''Our ordinance is probably the most progressive in Westchester, because it allows the density bonus,'' said Peter C. Bliss, chairman of the Zoning Board and a past Planning Board member who is one of the seven being sued.
However, county officials said North Salem's spacious zoning, consisting mostly of two- and four-acre lots, rendered its density bonus worthless.
 
Lake Pollution Cited
Another major concern in North Salem is the health of Peach Lake. Measuring two miles across and straddling the border of Putnam and Westchester Counties, the lake is ringed by two country clubs and a golf course, as well as several hundred summer bungalows, converted long ago to year-round homes. Failing septic tanks have dirtied the waters, town officials say, and more development could make matters worse.
Mr. Clifford, who bought his land on the lake's south end in the late 1960's, agrees. ''There's no question that Peach Lake is in trouble,'' the developer said.
But he has a solution: given the chance to build 184 units, he could afford to install a tertiary sewage treatment plant at the condominium complex. ''We would allow some homes around the lake to tie into our plant,'' he said. ''It would save Peach Lake.''
Not so, say the lakeside residents, the strongest opponents to the development. ''The lake is so polluted now,'' said Alexander Zack, who lives in a two-bedroom cottage. ''It's not the views or the extra traffic we mind. We just don't want any more sludge in that beautiful lake.''
The crucial test in the upcoming trial, according to land-use experts, will be the developer's ability to prove that he had a ''vested interest'' in the property, even though North Salem had not issued any approvals for his site plan at the time the zoning was changed.

GRAPHIC: photo: Lawrence M. Clifford, president of the Continental Building Company, at a site in North Salem, N.Y., where he had planned to build condominiums. He is suing the Town of North Salem and seven former Planning Board members because they adopted zoning rules that exclude the development. (NYT/Joyce Dopkeen); map of North Salem, N.Y. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL BUILDING SYSTEMS (52%); WESTCHESTER HOUSING FORUM (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NORTH SALEM (NY)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ZONING; CONDOMINIUMS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; DAMAGE SUITS ZONING (91%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); COUNTIES (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); LAWYERS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); ORDINANCES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); CITIES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

PERSON: SHAMBERG, STUART; CLIFFORD, LAWRENCE M; FODERARO, LISA W STUART R SHAMBERG (83%); 



695 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Budget Chief Defends Plans For Spending on the Military

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28

 BODY:
On the eve of the submission of President Bush's new budget, his budget director, Richard G. Darman, today defended the size of the military budget, the proposed cut in the capital gains tax and the Administration's opposition to a reduction in the Social Security tax.
Mr. Darman also repeated the charge he made in his introduction to the new budget that Congress had not been serious about reducing the budget deficit.
Representative Leon E. Panetta, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Budget Committee, took issue with the contention that Congress had been irresponsible, but he said that this year the lawmakers would have to confront the necessity for new taxes to lower the deficit.
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat who has proposed a sharp cut in Social Security taxes, criticized Mr. Darman for being unwilling to act sooner to stop using those taxes to pay for the Government's operating expenses. 
 
Rise in 'Star Wars' Spending
Interviewed on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press,'' Mr. Darman maintained that continued international threats warranted increased spending for the ''Star Wars'' missile defense system and new weapons like the Stealth bomber.
Regardless of the improved relations with the Soviet Union, he said, ''There are third parties now, non-superpowers, who have ballistic missile capability.'' That, he said, made continued work on the Star Wars system imperative.
Officials say the Administration will propose spending $4.8 billion on the missile defense system in the fiscal year 1991, which begins Oct. 1. That would be about $1 billion more than in 1990 but about $1 billion less than had been previously planned.
The Administration will propose spending $292.1 billion on Pentagon programs in the next fiscal year, about $5 billion more than this year but about $6 billion less than what would be needed to keep pace with inflation. Congress is expected to try to cut the military budget further.
 
Debate on Taxes
Mr. Darman argued that a reduction in the capital gains tax would lead to economic growth, benefiting the entire economy, while a cut in Social Security taxes, as Senator Moynihan has proposed, would inhibit ''investment in all these worthy purposes, social insurance and housing and education and so on.''
A reduction in the Social Security tax, without an increase in other taxes, would increase the Federal budget deficit. That would force the Government to borrow more money and thus reduce the amount that could be invested.
In recent years, an increasing surplus from Social Security revenue has been used to pay the day-to-day cost of Government instead of being invested in a way that would guarantee pension benefits for today's workers when they retire. The Administration plans to reduce the reliance on those taxes beginning in 1993 and to stop using them for operating expenses entirely by 1996.
Senator Moynihan, in a statement, said those plans reminded him of the the line from ''Through the Looking Glass'': ''The rule is, jam tomorrow and jam yesterday - but never jam today.''
''It is well known that the Federal budget is always in balance three years from now,'' the New York Democrat said. ''Never, however, now.''
 
Criticism of Congress
Mr. Darman was equally critical of Congress. Referring to Congress, he wrote in the introduction to the President's proposed budget, ''At some point, there is an obligation to be serious.''
The preachy tone irritated some Democrats, but Mr. Darman continued the criticism on television today.
He said of Congress: ''There's an awful lot of hypocrisy. There's an awful lot of posturing.''
Representative Panetta, reached by telephone at his home in California, said Mr. Darman's statements could be taken either of two ways - as the remarks of ''a frustrated budget director who can't get his own Administration to focus on these issues'' or as ''a cynical way'' to curry favor ''with the economists at the same time you present a political budget to the economists.''
Mr. Bush will deliver his State of the Union Message on Wednesday night, two days after submitting his proposed budget to Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (88%); BOMBINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: DARMAN, RICHARD G (DIR); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) LEON E PANETTA (56%); 



696 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 2, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS WORLD SPECIALS: HARNESS RACING;
At 21, He's Off And Winning

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
NOT every 21-year-old college student can say he owns a string of harness horses. But then, not every college student has a mother who operates a chain of Chinese restaurants.
Gilbert Chang's mother does, though, and enough of the profits from Misa Chang's share of 13 Empire Szechuan restaurants in New York City have filtered down to give her son the wherewithal to indulge his whims. 
And as Chang, a junior at New York University, is the first to acknowledge, his No. 1 whim is harness racing. ''I've been going to the track since I was 8 years old,'' he said in an interview.
His first love was actually thoroughbreds, but since most of them usually race during school hours, Chang switched to standardbreds, who usually compete at night.
He bought his first horse last February and has spent some $700,000 putting together a nine-horse stable known as the Chang Dynasty.
The key event in his transition from fan to owner took place when Chang was introduced to Steve Manzi, a trainer who was between assignments. Manzi, who grew up in the harness world, was looking for a compatible owner. Chang was looking for an experienced trainer who didn't mind working for a novice.
The two have since then forged the perfect working relationship: Manzi makes all the decisions. Chang signs all the checks.
The money includes $50 a day per horse for Manzi, who keeps what's left over after buying feed, straw and the like, enough to keep the trainer from returning to his previous job.
''When I met him, he was digging ditches,'' Chang said.
The Chang Dynasty had a fairly good year in 1989, taking 23 firsts, 19 seconds and 17 thirds in 109 starts and grossing just over $300,000 in purses.
By September, Chang said, he was up about $120,000 for the year. Then he was hit by a devastating blow: the Meadowlands' annual thoroughbred season, when harness purses stop without a corresponding hiatus in expenses. After four months, Chang's profits were down to the $20,000 level.
That's not much of a return on his investment, but Chang, an economics major who plans a business career, sees racing as a hobby, not a business. As long as his earnings cover his expenses, he said, he's satisfied.
As for his business future, Chang said his mother was leaning toward hotels, and where his bankroll leans, he bends.
One can envision what such a future might consist of: a chain of Chang Dynasty resort hotels each overlooking an expanse of tennis courts, a golf course or two - and a harness track.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SPORTS WORLD (73%); 

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING; HARNESS RACING HORSES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TENNIS (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); RESORTS (62%); 

PERSON: THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR; CHANG, GILBERT GILBERT CHANG (95%); STEVE MANZI (81%); CHANG DYNASTY (71%); 



697 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 18, Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Review/Theater;
Struggle With Conscience In an Almost Forgotten War

BYLINE: By WILBORN HAMPTON

 BODY:
In one of the early episodes of the television series M*A*S*H, Col. Henry Blake, the Army surgeon played by McLean Stevenson, bitterly observes that there are two rules of war. The first is that people die. The second is that there is nothing that doctors, chaplains or field officers can do about Rule No. 1. Rod Serling's teleplay ''The Strike,'' which is being given its first stage production by the Vietnam Veterans Ensemble Theater Company at the South Street Theater, examines the agony of conscience of one Army major who must make a battlefield decision that could end in the death of a score of men he himself has sent out on a reconnaissance patrol.
''The Strike,'' which was originally presented as a ''Studio One'' television production in 1954, represents something of a departure for the worthy Vietnam Veterans company. First, it is a play about the Korean War, a conflict that has almost been forgotten in the decades of our national turmoil over Vietnam. Furthermore, it focuses on the soul-searching of an officer, Major Gaylord, as he wrestles with a life-and-death decision. In all the plays, novels or movies about Vietnam there has been little outpouring of sympathy for anyone in uniform above the rank of corporal. 
Thomas Bird, the founder of the Vietnam Veterans company and the director of this production, opens the short, stark evening with a brisk staged reading of passages from ''The Korean War: An Oral History - Pusan to Chosin'' by Donald Knox. It is an imaginative and effective device that provides a quick survey course on the Korean War and cleverly sets the scene for Serling's play.
A group of American G.I.'s recount in rapid, staccato bursts of speech the events of the last six months of 1950 as personal reminiscences - being shipped from the fleshpots of occupied Japan to wartime Korea, the retreat to Pusan, the landing at Inchon, the early successes against the North Koreans, only to be met at the Yalu River by the Chinese Army poised for an invasion of its own. There are references to Gen. Douglas MacArthur's promises that American soldiers would be home by Thanksgiving (a pledge quickly revised to being home for Christmas), and to Bob Hope performing for the troops in Pyongyang.
This gripping tale ends abruptly in a barrage of incoming artillery fire that, once the smoke clears, turns into a snowbound command post for a decimated American battalion. The Americans are in a ''fluid situation,'' which, as Major Gaylord explains, ''is what you call it when you're losing and don't want to admit it.''
Despite some familiar dramatic military terrain - a lost patrol, broken communications, wounded needing evacuation - ''The Strike'' is a well-crafted play that creates a taut dramatic situation with an economy of action, principally through characterization. That the tension in Serling's play is only partly realized in the Vietnam Veterans production is due mostly to a rather tentative, low-key performance by Tucker Smallwood in the pivotal role of Major Gaylord that only occasionally penetrates much below the surface. ''I wish someone with a star on his shoulder would tell me what's right and wrong,'' the Major says, but there is little sense that the decision presents much of an agonizing quandary. Mr. Smallwood is better in passages recalling his own days before command. The actor delivers a moving account of being ordered to shoot a soldier who refused to give a password only to learn the soldier sacrificed himself for his platoon.
Anthony Chisholm is especially good as Chaplain Walker, whose job of listening to battlefield confessions is like ''eavesdropping on death.'' Ray Robertson is credible as Captain Chick. Matt Tomasino as Lieutenant Peters and Jim Tracy as Captain Franks generate a sense of urgency about the lost patrol that occasionally flags elsewhere onstage. And Brian Markinson delivers a small gem of a performance as Richard Golden, a wounded soldier who can only say his name, address and hometown over and over and over as a plea for help.
George A. Allison's set is simple yet evocative, complete with a 48-star flag, an old hand generator and field phone, some empty ammo crates -all World War II surplus, which is what the G.I.'s in Korea had to fight with.
 
Oh! That War!
 
THE STRIKE, by Rod Serling; directed by Thomas Bird; set design, George A. Allison; costume design, Jim Buff; lighting design, Terry Wuthrich; sound design, Scott Sanders; production stage manager, Jerry Bihm. Presented by Vietnam Veterans Ensemble Company, Mr. Bird, artistic director. At the South Street Theater, 424 West 42d Street.
 
WITH: David Adamson, Anthony Chisholm, Ralph DeMatthews, Russ Ericson, Stephen Lee, Michael Manetta, Brian Markinson, Sean Michael Rice, Ray Robertson, Tucker Smallwood, Matt Tomasino and Jim Tracy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: STRIKE, THE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: PUSAN, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (70%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (56%); INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (56%); 

COMPANY: STUDIO ONE ARTISTS (56%); CHINESE ARMY (66%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (91%); VETERANS (90%); THEATER (90%); ARMIES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); KOREAN WAR (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); HISTORY (72%); THEATER COMPANIES (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); THANKSGIVING (60%); CHRISTMAS (60%); 

PERSON: HAMPTON, WILBORN MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 



698 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
Eastern Europe's attempts to move from central planning toward free markets promise to be much slower, more difficult and more socially divisive than the moves toward democracy. Allowing prices to surge, workers to be laid off and other consequences of a market economy are sensitive matters, Eastern European government officials and economists acknowledge. [Page D1.] West German companies and banks pursuing business in East Germany are finding that economic change there is coming much more slowly than political liberalization. [D4.] 
Shintaro Ishihara has become the embodiment of a new sour mood in Japanese-American relations. [A16.]
A Canadian uranium producer, Rio Algom, will close two mines as a consequence of a decade-long slump in prices. [D10.]
 
 
 
The Economy
Orders for American-made machine tools jumped 14 percent in December, reversing a three-month decline. Some analysts said the December increase was relatively insignificant. For the year, machine tool orders were down 21.7 percent. [D1.]
The charges against earnings taken by some oil companies to deal with environmental problems are a warning that pollution standards will be increasingly costly to meet and that more such charges are likely. News Analysis. [D1.]
The President's budget director defended the size of the military budget, a proposed cut in the capital gains tax rate and the Administration's opposition to a cut in the Social Security tax. [B6.] Richard G. Darman is perhaps the most influential budget director ever, and many people believe he always has something up his sleeve. [A1.]
 
 
 
Companies
One of Apple Computer's highest executives has resigned in what could be the start of an overhaul of the company's U.S. sales and marketing organization, industry officials said. The resignation of Allan Z. Loren, president of the Apple U.S.A. division, is likely to be accompanied by other changes in the top management. [D1.]
Imperial Corporation of America wants another chance, after a series of spectacular mistakes in the last few years, including betting heavily on speculative high-yield ''junk bonds,'' buying a portfolio of consumer loans that went sour and financing the importer of the ill-fated Yugo automobile. [D1.]
Sony has displayed prototypes of what it calls an electronic book, the Data Discman. A descendant of the Walkman, it weighs about a pound, fits in the palm of the hand, and can search for data from a three-inch CD-ROM, a close cousin of the compact disk that can store up to 100,000 pages of data. [D10.]
 
The Media Business
Continental Airlines abruptly dismissed Ayer and said it would put its account into a formal review with up to five agencies. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D11.]
Cinema commercials are quickly becoming a standard part of the program at many U.S. movie theaters. Ad Scene. [D12.]
 
TV shows are increasingly being screened so advertisers can learn of possibly objectionable material. [D1.]
The National makes its first newsstand appearance on Wednesday in a test of a daily sports newspaper. [D12.]
Two of Italy's most powerful business executives are engaged in an all-out war for control of the nation's leading publisher. [D12.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Gloom in the bond markets is not likely to evaporate quickly, credit market analysts say. Credit Markets. [D8.]
The prospect of a big drop in the value of the dollar has not encouraged exporters. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
Several small companies serving the casino-gaming business could be the strongest performers in the industry, several analysts say. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); 

COMPANY: IMPERIAL CORP OF AMERICA (53%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); MACHINE TOOLS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); BONDS (70%); MINE CLOSINGS (69%); CINEMA ADVERTISING (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); DEFENSE SPENDING (66%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (66%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (65%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (61%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (68%); 



699 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1815 words

HEADLINE: Savings Unit Seeks 2d Chance

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO

 BODY:
The Imperial Corporation of America, one of California's largest savings and loans companies, made a series of spectacular mistakes in the last few years, including betting heavily on speculative high-yield ''junk bonds,'' buying a portfolio of consumer loans that went sour and financing the importer of the ill-fated Yugo automobile.
But now, Imperial wants another chance. Lacking a permanent chief executive, its capital exhausted and its depositors nervous, the company is still trying to convince Federal regulators that it can recover and eventually meet the Government's tough new standards for the financial health of savings and loan associations.
''If I were the regulator, I would say that if the people at this institution have a good chance of working the problem out, let's let them have a fair chance to prove they can do it,'' said Lyman C. Hamilton Jr., who took over in January as interim chief executive of Imperial, the San Diego-based parent of Imperial Savings, which has 80 branches throughout California.
 
Route to Salvation
Like many other savings and loans, Imperial was devastated by its forays into investments far afield from mortgage-lending and deposit-taking. Now it has decided that its salvation lies in becoming a traditional savings institution, one that lives off the spread between what it pays for deposits and what it takes in as interest on loans. 
That survival plan, submitted to the Government to specify how the institution intends to reach the new standards, calls for cutting the institution's assets in half and generating earnings over the next several years from its remaining portfolio of home loans and mortgage securities. It is typical of the approaches being taken by the hundreds of other struggling institutions that are trying to stave off Government seizure.
But Imperial's plan also illustrates the immense, often insurmountable difficulties that face those savings and loan companies now trying to pull themselves out of the deep financial holes they dug through various combinations of mismanagement, fraud and bad economic luck.
And the optimistic business assumptions that buttress Imperial's plan suggest why the Government is unlikely to be very sympathetic as it resolves the fate of institutions scrambling to survive under the stricter new regulations, which force owners to put up more of their own money as a buffer against losses.
 
'Harder-Nosed Regulation'
''You have to be very skeptical of plans to earn your way out of a hole,'' said Bert Ely, an industry consultant in Alexandria, Va. ''Usually, what you find when you look closely at these plans is that a lot of things have to break just right. Now that we're in a new era of harder-nosed regulation, we are kidding ourselves less about how best to deal with these problems.''
Imperial is far from alone. There are almost 900 savings and loan institutions that do not meet the savings and loan bailout bill's new capital regulations. Like Imperial, they have been required to submit plans to the Government.
Many can bring themselves into compliance relatively easily in the next few years by shrinking in size and selling assets to raise money. But for Imperial and others, the task is much harder, if it is possible at all. Ultimately the Government expects to seize at least 200 marginally solvent or newly insolvent institutions, perhaps adding to the projected $160 billion cost of dealing with the savings and loan crisis.
In Imperial's case, the regulators have already suggested they are skeptical of a recovery. In early January, just one day after Imperial submitted its recapitalization plan to the primary Federal regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the agency directed Imperial to not make any more loans or engage in any investment activities.
 
Possibly a Death Sentence
It was one of the harshest actions short of seizure taken by the agency since it began reviewing the undercapitalized institutions in the latter part of 1989, and many analysts perceived it to be a death sentence. By Imperial's own account, the regulatory action shattered the confidence of depositors, who quickly withdrew $100 million.
But Mr. Hamilton, the 63-year-old former chief executive of the ITT Corporation, contended in an interview that the company could be returned to health if the regulators give it a chance.
Mr. Hamilton has been a member of Imperial's board for seven years, and is heading the company until a permanent successor is found for Kenneth J. Thygerson, who resigned as chief executive under pressure last summer. Mr. Hamilton replaced Allan R. Tessler, another board member who was chief executive for seven months after Mr. Thygerson left.
''I met with the regulators and I tried to convey to them that our plan is real, it is implementable and that we are implementing it every day,'' Mr. Hamilton said.
 
Big Buyer of Junk Bonds
The roots of Imperial's troubles are in a decision by Mr. Thygerson several years ago to seek profits in businesses far from the usual activities of savings and loans. Under him, Imperial became one of the largest buyers of junk bonds in the industry.
The institution also sought to expand its loan portfolio rapidly and inexpensively by acquiring automobile-loan packages from a large Chevrolet dealership in Los Angeles. It sought out speculative financing opportunities, like making loans to Global Motors Inc., which imported the low-priced Yugo automobile from Yugoslavia.
All those moves proved to be disastrous. Global Motors did not sell many Yugos, and sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection not long after borrowing heavily from Imperial, which was forced to set aside $15.7 million for losses on the loans in 1988. The Chevrolet dealership also entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy under a cloud of fraud investigations, and many of its loans that Imperial had bought quickly went into default. Imperial has suffered losses of at least $38 million on the portfolio. $33 Million Loss Provision The junk-bond investments fared no better. The company was forced to take a $33 million loss provision last year on $40 million of the bonds issued by Integrated Resources Inc., the financially ailing investment concern. Then, under the provisions of the savings-and-loan bailout bill signed by President Bush in August, Imperial, like all other savings institutions with junk bonds, had to start carrying the bonds on its books at the lower of market value or face value.
Because the bond market has fallen sharply in recent months, Imperial has had to reduce the bonds' value by $200 million, to $830 million, wiping out what capital it had left after the loan losses.
Imperial is expected to post a large loss for the fourth quarter and for the year.
Mr. Hamilton acknowledges that the institution made big mistakes, particularly in failing to spot the poor credit quality of the automobile loans it bought. But he said that the remaining core of the institution is profitable and can be brought up to the new capital standards by the final deadline of 1994 if its asset size, loan portfolio and expenses are carefully handled.
Mr. Hamilton said Imperial planned to shrink to about $5.9 billion in assets in five years from its current level of about $10 billion. The institution has already shrunk from $12.3 billion in the middle of last year, and plans to decline in size to $8.2 billion by the end of this year by selling loans and other assets.
 
Less Money Would Be Needed
By reducing its size, the institution will need to raise less money to comply with Federal regulations, because capital requirements are measured as a ratio of asset size.
Mr. Hamilton said Imperial can generate and retain earnings of $300 million over five years, enough to raise its most basic level of capital to about 5 percent of its asset size, or well above the 3 percent required by the new regulations.
Most of the money would come from keeping the earnings it expects to make on its home-loan portfolio. But about $75 million of the after-tax profits would come from a series of real estate projects that the company is completing and plans to sell in the next few years. And the company will have to go to Wall Street to raise $75 million in several years to meet a secondary test of capital strength.
Mr. Hamilton said Imperial would help its cause by slashing operating expenses as it shrinks. Expenses this year are budgeted at $154 million, down from $200 million last year. And he said the company planned to make sure it was fully covered for any further losses from its loan portfolio, by adding to its reserves in its financial results for the last three months of 1989.
 
'Still a Good Earning Engine'
''We're going to look like the most traditional of traditional thrifts,'' Mr. Hamilton said. ''This is still a good earning engine.''
But the plan includes several assumptions that regulators are certain to question. For example, Imperial assumes that junk-bond prices will not decline further, something that many analysts doubt will happen if the economy sinks into a recession.
It also assumes that the company can sell huge quantities of other assets without suffering substantial losses, a task that would be especially tricky if interest rates go higher, making the institution's mortgage-backed securities and other rate-sensitive holdings less valuable.
Analysts also wonder whether the company can count on hefty profits from its real estate developments in California at a time when home prices have begun to soften and some experts think the market could fall sharply.
Moreover, the company will have to survive for some time without a chief executive who has experience in the savings and loan business. Mr. Hamilton, who admits that he is just starting to learn all the details of Imperial's situation, acknowledged that it is impossible to hire a permanent replacement while the threat of seizure hangs over the institution.
 
Hard Case to Make
In the meantime, regulators are being asked to entrust the direction of the company to members of a board that approved the failed strategies.
''It's a very hard case for Imperial to make,'' said Mr. Ely, the industry consultant.
But perhaps the biggest obstacle facing Imperial's plea for a second chance is the political pressure on regulators to act swiftly and decisively to deal with troubled institutions before their problems get worse and the costs of the cleanup increase.
With regulators still smarting from criticism that they allowed institutions like the Lincoln Savings and Loan Association to remain in business for too long, even Mr. Hamilton knows there is little incentive for Federal officials to take a chance on Imperial and institutions like it.
''There's no upside for anybody who makes the tough decision to give us a chance,'' Mr. Hamilton said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lyman C. Hamilton Jr., interim chief executive of the Imperial Corporation of America, the beleagured California savings and loan company. (NYT/Alan Decker) (pg. D1); graph of the dialy close of Imperial Corporation of American on the New York Stock Exchange (source: Interactive Data) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ICA (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: IMPERIAL CORP OF AMERICA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMPERIAL CORP OF AMERICA

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION SAVINGS & LOANS (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (87%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 



700 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Slow Pace For Reform In East Bloc

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WARSAW, Jan. 28

 BODY:
The rush toward political reform has swept through the nations of Eastern Europe with startling speed. But their attempt to move from the central planning of Communism toward free markets promises to be a much slower, more difficult and socially divisive transition.
Opening political life in Eastern Europe to several parties and to stronger parliaments is one thing. Allowing prices to surge, workers to be laid off and other consequences of a market economy is a far more touchy matter, Eastern European government officials and economists acknowledge.
Even here in Poland, Eastern Europe's leader in the move to market economics, there is a recognition that the policy changes may already be running ahead of public attitudes and that a state-controlled system in place for four decades will not be quickly dismantled. 
''Poland has almost entered capitalism, but mentally we are still in socialism,'' said Andrzej Wroblewski, editor of Gazeta Bankowa, Poland's leading economic newspaper. ''People still believe that there should always be someone to protect them, that there should be a cushion between them and hard ground.''
 
Consensus Is Emerging
Despite the obstacles and prospect of public resistance, a striking measure of consensus is emerging among officials and economists in Eastern Europe about the strategies necessary to move these societies from their current economic stagnation to a more prosperous future.
More than two dozen East European officials and economists interviewed were virtually in agreement on which basic steps were needed. All Eastern European nations should follow the steps being taken by Poland, they said, though perhaps at a different order and pace. The measures include abolishing most price controls, slashing subsidies to consumers and industry, giving enterprises autonomy, ending monopolies, permitting layoffs, accepting bankruptcies and moving toward a convertible currency.
''There is a basic minimum package of steps that must be taken,'' said Vladimir Dlouhy, an economist who was named Deputy Prime Minister in Czechoslovakia.
The aim of these reforms would be to scrap the ossified system of central planning that provided little incentive for initiative. A market-oriented system would in theory reward - and encourage - initiative and hard work.
For all the talk of free markets and capitalism, the vision of a better future in several Eastern European nations often appears to bear more resemblance to Swedish-style social democracy, with its generous welfare benefits, than to the more free-market brand of capitalism practiced in the United States.
''If you want to have a Scandinavian-type economy, first you need an economy in good working order to be able to underwrite all those social programs,'' said Aleksander Paszynski, Poland's Minister of Construction and Housing.
 
Years to Complete
There is also general agreement that transforming a centrally planned economy into a market-oriented one will be a bumpy and often painful process. It could take years, even decades, to complete.
The structural obstacles to reform could scarcely be overstated. Perhaps most daunting is the sheer weight of state control in the Eastern European economies and the impossibility of tilting the balance quickly toward private enterprise. In East Germany, for instance, less than 4 percent of the work force is employed in the private sector and less than 1 percent of industry is privately owned. Throughout Eastern Europe, the state typically owns more than 95 percent of industry.
Eastern European officials emphasized that the speed and specifics of each nation's reform must be tailored to domestic needs. Differences in the standard of living, inflation rate, debt burden and political climate will mean differences in the economic strategies each nation adopts.
East Germany, with its low inflation and relative prosperity compared with other Eastern European nations, can make its transition slowly and look to West Germany for special guidance and assistance. In Poland, by contrast, Government officials concluded that a painful crash program was needed to tackle its 500 percent inflation rate and revive its prostrate economy.
''I don't believe that any country can copy another country's process, because they start from different initial conditions,'' said Janos Kornai, a leading Hungarian economist who teaches at Harvard University. ''At the same time, these countries have much in common and can learn from each other's experience.''
 
Differences on Goals
The nations of Eastern Europe also take a different approach about what their ultimate destination should be. Poland seems to be moving most forcefully toward capitalism, while Czechoslovakia seems intent on maintaining generous social protection and Government involvement in industry.
While Eastern European nations must take these market-oriented steps themselves, officials from those nations agree that they need Western investment and technology. Encouraging foreign joint ventures is viewed as essential.
''We need foreign investment like we need oxygen,'' said Mr. Paszynski, the Polish construction minister.
Government officials and economists interviewed said the basic steps needed to build a market economy include:
* Lifting price controls. Price controls should be removed on tradeable goods like bread, gasoline and steel. This will help create an accurate pricing system, which is essential to discerning which enterprises are profitable and which are not and will help industry discover what consumers want. Allowing companies to charge what they want will also give them incentives to expand.
''For an enterprise to produce effectively, it must be free to make decisions on prices,'' said Heinrich Machowski, an economist with the Institute for Economic Research in Berlin. ''In order to be able to measure your costs properly, you have to have market prices.''
* Slashing subsidies. Large subsidies to consumers are seen as distortions in the pricing system, while subsidies to industry keep inefficient industries in business. Subsidies can also be a huge drain on public coffers, so much so that subsidies accounted for more than 30 percent of Poland's budget last year.
* Giving enterprises autonomy. Economists say managers must be given operating independence as well as orders or incentives to make a profit. This will force them to become more efficient, which will benefit the whole economy.
''It's not important who is the owner,'' said Paul Zieber, who has founded one of the first economic consulting firms in East Germany.''The presidents of many American companies are not owners. What's important is to structure things so that managers work like owners.''
* Ending monopolies. Many Eastern European officials had an unhappy surprise when they began to end central planning and gave enterprises independence, only to see these companies raise prices substantially. There was little to prevent them from price-gouging; in many industries there was just one company.
Eastern European officials are talking about breaking up steel-making or slaughterhouse monopolies, and eliminating the red tape that makes it hard for new companies to enter an industry.
* Creating a convertible currency. Restoring faith in a country's currency increases incentives to work and reduces inflationary expectations. Without a convertible currency, foreign trade is more difficult and often is tied to cumbersome barter and bilateral agreements.
* Allowing enterprises to lay off workers. In many Communist countries, layoffs were all but forbidden, which allowed many companies to become bloated. Economists say it is important to permit layoffs to help companies reduce costs and increase efficiency.
* Permitting bankruptcies. Since bankruptcies were more or less taboo in Eastern Europe, many managers and workers felt little incentive to be efficient because they knew their enterprises would never be allowed to fail.
* Creating a sound banking system. Eastern European banks have long done little more than funnel subsidies to inefficient enterprises. Government officials say a solid banking system is needed as a disciplining force that steers investment to efficient companies and promising start-ups.
There are many lesser reforms that are deemed desirable. For example, many economists say Eastern Europe's accounting system must be changed to enable enterprises to have a true measure of their profitability, costs and efficiency. Stock markets can be created to help raise capital for privatized companies.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''The mistake is to begin price reforms with a monopolistic structure,'' said Vaclav Klaus, Czechoslovakia's Finance Minister. (NYT/Jiri Jiru); graph of the average annual growth in gross national product for 1980-89, in percent. Based on 1989 estimates (source: Commerce Dept., PlanEcon, Japanese Embassy) (NYT) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); POLAND (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: EASTERN EUROPEAN TRUST PLC (85%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LAYOFFS (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TRENDS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN VACLAV KLAUS (50%); 



701 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
Exporters Shrug At Dollar's Drop

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
THE dollar just might be on the verge of a big drop in value. It is already off 15 percent against the West German mark since mid-September, and Japan is taking steps to strengthen the yen and weaken the dollar. That should be wonderful news for the nation's exporters, the main beneficiaries of a cheaper dollar, but surprisingly, many greet the prospect with a shrug.
Both the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers reflect this lack of enthusiasm. They are deeply engaged in lobbying hard for a number of causes dear to the hearts of thousands of members, but getting the dollar down in value isn't one of them. ''How do you weigh in on this when there isn't a hue and cry?'' asks William T. Archey, a Chamber vice president. 
Talking to executives reveals the reasons for the lack of enthusiasm. Most do believe that a cheaper dollar - say one worth 120 yen and 1.60 marks instead of 144 yen and 1.69 marks - would help to increase sales abroad. Don V. Fites, who was recently promoted to chairman and chief executive of Caterpillar Inc., even bangs his fist on the table, demanding a cheaper dollar. But others focus on different issues.
Some executives believe that the key to successful exporting is a product's quality and its uniqueness. The Industrial Brush Company of Pomona, Calif., for example, has developed a brush made of abrasive nylon that removes impurities from computer circuit boards. No foreign company makes anything quite like this brush - yet - and it is a big seller in Asia, says John Cottam, Industrial's president. About $1 million of the company's $11 million in annual sales come from exports.
''People are willing to pay a premium for these brushes so we were able to offset the rise in the value of the dollar last year,'' Mr. Cottam said. He acknowledges that if the dollar falls in value by, say, 15 percent, then brush exports would probably go up $100,000. After such a drop, a brush that costs $1 (144 yen) to make in Pomona would still cost $1 to make there, but the yen equivalent of that dollar would decline to 122. A lower manufacturing cost, in yen, will allow Mr. Cottam to sell the brush in Japan for fewer yen, without sacrificing profit.
But if a lower price might increase sales by $100,000, the assignment of more sales representatives abroad would jump sales by a much greater amount, in Mr. Cottam's view. ''It is hard to sort out which is more important, a good sales network or a weak dollar,'' he said.
Some companies do not get excited about the dollar's fluctuating value because they are largely immune to it. The Boeing Company is in this category, and its overseas sales of commercial airliners alone account for $1 billion of the nation's $31 billion in monthly exports. Boeing bills foreign customers in dollars, not their currencies. And all Boeing's costs are in dollars, even payment for the many parts purchased abroad. Boeing forces a German supplier, for instance, to absorb the exchange loss, when a falling American currency makes each dollar collected from Boeing worth perhaps 1.60 marks instead of 1.69.
Then there are companies that avoid the issue by putting factories abroad to supply foreign markets, thus shifting most costs out of dollars. And others who might favor a cheaper dollar for exports, worry about the negative side: a weak dollar encourages foreign competitors to put factories in the United States. When the dollar declines, the same yen or mark buys more dollars to invest.
Against this ambivalence, Mr. Fites sounds particularly annoyed. Caterpillar bulldozers and earthmovers made in Peoria, Ill., compete head to head against essentially similar Kamatsu or Hitachi equipment made in Japan. These huge machines list for $500,000 a shot, and everyone is cutting prices to win sales around the world.
Caterpillar's discounts, however, have cut into the corporation's profits, Mr. Fites said. The Japanese, on the other hand, have been saved from this anguish because of the dollar's appreciation since 1988. It has gone from 120 yen to 144 yen, which means the Japanese could cut their prices in dollars by 20 percent and still collect the same number of yen. ''If the yen-dollar relationship stays where it is, wait and see what happens to our trade deficit in six months,'' Mr. Fites said. ''It will go back up again.''
He is probably overstating the case. Even without rising exports, a weak American economy could reduce the demand for imports, and as imports declined, so would the trade deficit. But Mr. Fites's point is essentially correct. Commerce Department data show clearly that exports begin to rise two years after the dollar begins to lose value. And this response is usually produced only if the decline is 15 percent or more, said Howard Murad, who is in charge of collecting trade data at the Commerce Department.
Product quality, salesmanship and other factors play important roles in exporting, of course. But in Mr. Murad's view - one shared by a number of economists - a significant decline in the dollar, achieved over a period of months, also gets results.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (68%); CATR (PAR) (68%); CAT (SWX) (68%); CAT (NYSE) (68%); BOE (LSE) (60%); BAB (BRU) (60%); BA (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (68%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (90%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (68%); BOEING CO (60%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EXPORT TRADE (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); BROOM BRUSH & MOP MFG (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); SALES FORCE (71%); SALES & SELLING (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ANN LIVERMORE (70%); 



702 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Caterpillar to Promote President to Chairman

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
Caterpillar Inc., the largest maker of earth-moving machinery, has named Donald V. Fites as its chairman and chief executive, effective July 1. It also reorganized the executive suite, eliminating the posts of president and executive vice president, in a move to push decision-making further down the ranks.
Mr. Fites, 56 years old, has been Caterpillar's president since June. He will succeed George A. Schaefer, 62, who is retiring after leading the company since 1985. 
Caterpillar, based in Peoria, Ill., also named James W. Wogsland, 58, executive vice president, to the new post of vice chairman.
Caterpillar took some strong blows in the last decade as its competition in the heavy-equipment industry intensified with the entry of large Japanese and other foreign players while demand for the equipment fell.
Earlier this month, Caterpillar reported net income for last year of $497 million, or $4.90 a share, down from $616 million, or $6.07 a share, in 1988. Sales last year rose to $10.88 billion from $10.26 billion in 1988. A November report on Caterpillar by Standard & Poor's predicted that both sales and earnings would be lower this year.
The company said its management reorganization was intended to move accountability and decision-making downward. The new setup will include 18 vice presidents, 14 of whom will head profit centers.
''Profit centers will be expected to do exactly what the name says -produce a profit - and they'll have the authority to make it happen,'' Mr. Schaefer said in a statement.
As part of the reorganization, the three current executive vice presidents - Glen A. Barton, Gerald S. Flaherty and Pierre C. Guerindon -will become group presidents and the executive office will be reduced to five officers from six.
''Currently, we're organized mostly on a functional basis,'' Mr. Fites said in the statement. ''The new organization is a profit-driven product/geographic matrix. We believe the title 'group president' will help underline the basic autonomy of profit centers.''
Mr. Fites joined Caterpillar in 1956 after graduation from Valparaiso University with a civil engineering degree. He received a master's degree in management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and is a former Sloan Fellow. He has worked for Caterpillar in South Africa, Switzerland, West Germany, Japan and Brazil.
In 1981 he was named a vice president with responsibility for economics, pricing and scheduling, product control and product source planning. He became an executive vice president in 1983.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (98%); CATR (PAR) (98%); CAT (SWX) (98%); CAT (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATERPILLAR INC

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); ENGINEERING (61%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; FITES, DONALD V; SCHAEFER, GEORGE A; WOGSLAND, JAMES W MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 



703 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE BRIEFS

 BODY:
* Boston Technology Inc., Cambridge, Mass., is offering 2.8 million common shares at $6.5 each through Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
* Integrated Systems Inc., Santa Clara, Calif., has filed for an initial offering of 1.8 million common shares through Alex, Brown and Sons Inc.
 
Debt
* Student Loan Marketing Assn., Washington, is offering two issues of floating-rate notes totaling $500 million at prices in negotiated transactions intermittently through Morgan Stanley & Co. An issue due in 1992 will carry a floating rate of 60 basis points more than the bond equivalent yield of the 91-day Treasury bill auction rate, while an issue due in 1994 carries a rate that floats 70 basis points above. Interest is adjusted the day after each weekly bill auction.
 
Common Stock
* Baker Hughes Inc., a Houston-based maker of products for the oil and gas industries, has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for nine million common shares through First Boston Corp.
* Baltimore Gas and Electric Co. has filed for two million common shares.
 
Ratings
* Hercules Inc.'s debt rating is being reviewed with negative implications by Moody's. The company is based in Wilmington, Del.
* Mitsubishi Estate Co.'s senior long-term debt rating has been increased to AAA, from AA+, by S.&P. Last year, the company acquired 51 percent of the Rockefeller Group, which has controlling interest in New York's Rockefeller Center.
* Soo Line Corp.'s senior note rating has been raised to A-2, from Baa-3, by Moody's. The Minneapolis-based transportation holding concern is 56 percent owned by Canadian Pacific Ltd.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VRNT (NASDAQ) (93%); MS (NYSE) (84%); BHI (SWX) (83%); BHI (NYSE) (83%); 8802 (TSE) (68%); SLM (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (83%); SIC3533 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (83%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (83%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (69%); NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (68%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (68%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (68%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (68%); SIC6514 OPERATORS OF DWELLINGS OTHER THAN APARTMENT BUILDINGS (68%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (68%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (68%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (68%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (68%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (66%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (66%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (74%); TEXAS, USA (74%); DELAWARE, USA (67%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: VERINT SYSTEMS INC (93%); INTEGRATED SYSTEMS INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); BAKER HUGHES INC (83%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (72%); ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (72%); BALTIMORE GAS & ELECTRIC CO (69%); HERCULES INC (69%); MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO LTD (68%); SOO LINE CORP (66%); SLM CORP (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMMON STOCK (93%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); NEW ISSUES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BONDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); OIL & GAS FIELD EQUIPMENT MFG (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); STUDENT LOANS (72%); 



704 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Yields Expected to Climb Further

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Many credit market analysts say the gloom in the bond markets, prompted by an unexpectedly large increase in long-term interest rates, is not likely to evaporate quickly. As a result, yields could rise further, they said.
The prospect for a further rise was heightened late last week, when the yield on the 8 1/8 percent Treasury bonds of 2019 broke through the high end of an 8 1/2 percent-to-7 7/8 percent trading range it had occupied for seven months. Hammered all last week, by late on Friday the bellwether issue was quoted at a price to yield 8.51 percent. 
''With yields outside the familiar trading range, establishing a new level for the the 30-year bond may prove to be difficult,'' said Susan M. Hering, an economist at Salomon Brothers Inc. ''With a major jolt of new supply looming, the bond could break away to 8.75 percent before a new ceiling is established.''
 
'Shell Shocked'
Paul L. Kasriel, a vice president and monetary economist at the Northern Trust Company, said: ''Everyone is basically shell shocked. The dealer community is not going to fight this. I intend to wait and let somebody else be the first guy who buys the long bond. And I think a lot of other people feel that way.''
The sight of the coming flood of new issues has hung like a cloud over the market since early January. But it will be another week before the market participants will be forced to cope with the fresh supply.
The magnitude of the task will be clearer on Wednesday, when the Treasury is expected to announce the size of the quarterly refunding auctions to be held the week of Feb. 5.
Most analysts say they expect that the Treasury will sell a total of $30 billion in 3-year and 10-year notes and 30-year bonds.
Anxiety about the refunding auctions continues to center on the Japanese, and whether their appetite for the issues will be as strong as in the past. At times, Japanese investors bought as much as 40 percent of a new bond offering.
Doubts about the Japanese have been heightened as yields on fixed-income securities in West Germany and Japan have risen to levels that make them increasingly competitive with those in the United States.
 
Japan Rates Eased
Japanese interest rates eased somewhat last week, and further declines before the refunding could halt the price slide in Treasury issues, some of the analysts said.
Still, Mr. Kasriel suggested, a diminished Japanese presence at Treasury auctions could become a fact of life in the 1990's, even if interest rates in the United States are more attractive than those in Japan or elsewhere.
''The Japanese trade surplus is getting smaller, which means the rate of growth in funds to invest abroad is shrinking,'' he said. ''In addition, they have discovered alternative investments in this country. They are diversifying within the United States as well as globally.''
Worries about the refunding, as well as a sharp, weather-induced upward blip in inflation for the present, appear to have obliterated evidence that the economy is soft, and that it is likely to remain that way for some time.
Anthony J. Vignola, managing director in fixed-income research at Kidder, Peabody & Company, said that in some respects the current environment was the opposite of what happened in the summer and fall of 1988.
''Back then, bond yields fell on the perception of a slowing in the economy,'' he said.
''It took until the end of November to show that growth was not below trend. Now, the economy is weaker than it appears, and bond yields are rising,'' Mr. Vignola said. ''Sometime in mid-February or early March, I would expect the inflation numbers to start trending lower, and for the market to start reverting to an environment of continued slowing.''
 
Outlook on Growth
Moreover, the recent rise in rates is likely to further blunt growth in the second quarter.
''Whatever your forecast for second-quarter growth was, it has to be lower now because of the run-up in rates,'' said Donald J. Fine, the chief market analyst at the Chase Manhattan Bank.
But for the time being, the market is likely to remain extremely nervous.
An example of how edgy participants in the markets have become was provided on Friday, when Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it had downgraded certain securities of RJR Nabisco Inc.
The Moody's downgrade, to B-3, from B-2, covered about $7 billion in senior convertible debentures and payment-in-kind securities. The agency cited uncertain prospects for the domestic tobacco industry in downgrading the securities.
At the same time, however, the Standard & Poor's Corporation reaffirmed its ratings on the company, and suggested that slightly stronger cash flow than anticipated could lead to a ratings upgrade in the future.
The traders chose to focus on the Moody's report, and bids on RJR issues tumbled, some by as much as 10 points.
The price move amazed many participants in the market for high-yield ''junk bonds.''
''I have a hard time believing that a bond could be down 10 points on a ratings downtick,'' said Mark Vaselkiv, a vice president at the T. Rowe Price High Yield Fund. ''It just shows how nervous this market is.''
Robert Long, the director of high-yield research at the First Boston Corporation, said that ''cash flow is better than expected, and all of the company's asset sales have been accomplished at close to projected levels.
''Next month, RJR will pay down $5.5 billion worth of debt with proceeds from those sales,'' he said. ''The bottom line is that it is a very strong credit in the market.''
 
Doubts Linger on Pricing
Still, the development casts doubt on when a $1.25 billion offering of senior RJR notes will be priced.
The issue, which Standard & Poor's has rated BB, had been expected to be offered to investors in February. But now, it may have to be delayed, the market participants said. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets, the lead manager for the underwriting, would not comment on its plans.
''Before this happened, I would have said that the RJR deal would have been a pretty do-able issue,'' said Frank V. Colombo, the director of high-yield research at Dillon, Read & Company.
''There is still an appetite out there for RJR, and these securities will be senior to all of the rest of the company's paper. But due to this shock, it draws into question how well the deal will go.''
Almost certainly, Mr. Colombo and others said, the market will demand a much higher coupon on the new securities than it would have before the Moody's downgrade and the subsequent steep slide in RJR prices.
Before Friday, price talk on the 10-year securities had placed a coupon on the notes of 11 3/8 percent.
''At the right price, I would load up my truck with that bond,'' Mr. Vaselkiv of T. Rowe Price said. ''But 11 3/8 percent just won't fly now.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); GERMANY (51%); 

COMPANY: SALOMON BROTHERS INC (69%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (68%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



705 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: The 1991 Budget: Reaction;
Democrats Shun Budget Theories Bush Embraces

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29

 BODY:
Democrats greeted President Bush's $1.23 trillion budget today with strong skepticism about its central thesis that growth in the nation's economy will eliminate the budget deficit without the need for new taxes.
Democrats also clashed with Mr. Bush over his emphasis on cutting social programs. Some lawmakers said the Bush budget for the 1991 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1, did not make the sweeping reductions in military spending they believe are warranted by the declining Soviet military threat.
Congressional Democrats ignored the criticism of their previous fiscal management in an introductory essay by Richard G. Darman, the director of the Office of Management and Budget. Still, they sought to fling Mr. Darman's impassioned prose and far-reaching analysis of budget problems back at him by saying his introduction made promises on which the actual budget did not deliver. 
''It's like the doctor who tells his patient that he's suffering from terminal cancer and tells him, 'Take two aspirin and call me in the morning,' '' said Representative Leon E. Panetta, the California Democrat who serves as chairman of the House Budget Committee.
Democratic leaders in Congress and some private budget analysts also criticized the guiding principle in Mr. Bush's budget: that the nation can overcome the budget deficit through economic growth and cuts in social programs without making tough decisions to impose deep cuts in military spending, raise taxes or reduce retirement benefits.
Mr. Bush's budget offered no sweeping new social agenda. Instead, Mr. Bush relied heavily on tinkering with Ronald Reagan's legacy. Mr. Bush offered modest adjustments to a broad range of social programs to reduce spending. He also proposed new or increased fees and improvements in the collection of the income tax as the principal methods of cutting the budget deficit.
 
'Charmin' Darman'
Mr. Darman, who has been trying to mend his relations with Congress after the acrimonious debates last year over the Bush Administration's failed effort to cut the capital gains tax, shrugged off his problems with sardonic humor.
''I'm going to try to be 'charmin' Darman' again and this year go for holding on to that approach for more than six months,'' he said at a news conference shortly after the budget was released. ''I don't know if that will be sufficient, but it seems to be a precondition.''
As for chastising Congress in the introduction to the budget request, Mr. Darman said he did not think it ''should be viewed as in any way confrontational or contentious, compared with the normal standard I have set.''
 
Set of Stage Directions
As required by law, Mr. Bush's budget offers a way to reduce the Federal deficit by $36.5 billion, to $63.1 billion. But like all Presidential budgets, this one is primarily a political document that serves as a set of stage directions for the debate in Congress, rather than a final judgment on how every Government dollar will be spent.
Reflecting that dynamic, some Congressional Democrats had qualified praise for the intellectual force of Mr. Darman's essay, while disagreeing with many of its points. ''I admire his way of putting things,'' said Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who is on the House Budget Committee.
Sarcastically referring to Mr. Darman's essay as ''interesting and informative,'' the Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell, said: ''It was the ultimate example of the old saying, 'Do as I say, not as I do.' I know of no person more responsible for budget practices spanning the past decade in two Administrations than Mr. Darman.'' Mr. Darman was deputy chief of staff and later Deputy Secretary of the Treasury under Mr. Reagan.
 
Cut in Military Spending
In his request for the 1991 fiscal year, Mr. Bush offered the first proposal by the White House for a reduction in Pentagon spending, after accounting for inflation, since the military buildup began in 1981 under President Reagan.
But he balanced that with cuts in social programs, including a $5.4 billion reduction in Medicare benefits and a 25 percent cut in money to help low-income families pay their energy bills.
And Congressional Democrats said the 2 percent cut in military spending after inflation, which would produce Pentagon spending of $292.1 billion in 1991, was not nearly enough. Many pointed out that the actual amount of money Mr. Bush wants to spend on the Pentagon would increase by about $5.4 billion over the current year.
Their reaction reflected a growing desire to use the relaxation of East-West tensions to cut military money and create a ''peace dividend'' that could be used to avoid big cuts in social programs.
Mr. Bush's military budget, said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, ''is a Rip Van Winkle budget that has not yet awakened to the changes in the world or the major challenges at home.''
 
Criticism of Domestic Cuts
As expected, much Congressional fire was directed at Mr. Bush's proposed cuts in domestic programs and his heavy reliance on economic forecasts, which many Democrats and private economists described as overly optimistic.
Mr. Bush's budget included detailed economic forecasts through 1995, a significant departure from past practice. But they were presented with a take-it-or-leave-it defiance; the Administration declared that its forecasts, and the health of the economy, were predicated on Mr. Bush's budget being approved intact.
''I don't think any President expects his budget to be adopted as a whole,'' Mr. Mitchell said. He and others noted that some reductions Mr. Bush proposed had repeatedly been rejected by Congress. These included the Medicare cut, about half of which would be reductions in subsidies to hospitals and for doctors' education, and elimination of cost-of-living pay increases for Federal employees.
Mr. Bush is likely to have an easier time this year in passing a proposed reduction in the tax on profits from investments, or capital gains, which died in Congress last year. But it was clear today that Democrats were ready to take political advantage from the debate over the proposed cut, as well as Mr. Bush's opposition to a reduction in Social Security taxes proposed by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York.
Mr. Bush proposed instead that the $65 billion Social Security trust fund surplus, which the Moynihan plan would eliminate, be used to help reduce the national deficit starting in 1993.
''At a time when President Bush wants to cut the capital gains tax for the wealthy and maintain punishingly high Social Security taxes on everyone else, I question whether his priorities are right for the times,'' said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader.
There was also some criticism of the budget from Republicans. Representative Bill Green, Republican of Manhattan, said the budget proposal is ''gentler than were Reagan's, but not as kind as Congress will want.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE BUDGETS (96%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); CANCER (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DARMAN, RICHARD G (DIR); MITCHELL, GEORGE J (SEN); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (73%); LEON E PANETTA (55%); 



706 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: The 1991 Budget: Armed Forces;
CHENEY WOULD CUT DIVISIONS IN ARMY BUT MAINTAIN B-2

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney outlined his long-term plans for reshaping the military today, proposing the elimination of five of the Army's 28 active-duty and reserve divisions and making new investments in costly long-range nuclear programs through the mid-1990's.
As a first step, Mr. Cheney said the Pentagon would cut two of the Army's 18 active divisions in the 1991 fiscal year while holding the Navy roughly constant and continuing spending on the B-2 bomber.
The Secretary said major long-term changes in the military would depend on completion of agreements with the Soviet Union to cut conventional forces in Europe and to make deep reductions in long-range nuclear forces.
 
Pentagon News Conference
Mr. Cheney discussed his vision of the military at a Pentagon news conference at which the Defense Department proposed a military programs bill of $295 billion for the fiscal year 1991, a 2.6 percent decline in the department's purchasing power taking inflation into account. 
While information about the Pentagon's budget for the fiscal year 1991 has seeped out over the past few weeks and Pentagon officials have described a number of potential approaches to cutting spending through the mid-1990's, Mr. Cheney had not previously talked in detail about how he would reshape the military in light of a diminishing Soviet threat and changes in Eastern Europe.
He made clear today that he has approved plans to trim projected increases in Pentagon spending by as much as $167 billion from 1990 through 1994, a cut that would be somewhat smaller than the cuts identified last November by the armed services. Mr. Cheney asked the services then to draw up plans for cutting projected spending by $180 billion from 1992 to 1994.
 
A Political Strategy
Mr. Cheney's plans and other budget-cutting steps outlined by the Pentagon in recent weeks constitute both a program to reshape the military and a political strategy for dealing with Congress, which is eager to impose its own visions and spending plans. The Defense Secretary, in effect, has given Congress a detailed plan and challenged it to accept his approach or come up with its own formula for making the hard decisions about how to trim the military budget.
Liberal Democrats in Congress complained that Mr. Cheney had failed to cancel some expensive weapons programs and that the reductions proposed in the Pentagon budget cuts did not go far enough.
The military budget is ''very disappointing,'' said Representative Leon E. Panetta, Democrat of California.
But Republicans like Senator John W. Warner of Virginia, the ranking minority member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, cautioned against making sweeping changes in American military planning during a period of tumultuous political change in Europe.
 
Army Gets Biggest Cuts
In discussing his plans for reshaping the military, Mr. Cheney said he had resisted some possible cuts over the next year, including retiring some aircraft carriers. But he did not exclude that possibility in the future. He imposed the biggest budget cuts on the Army, whose mission of defending Western Europe has been brought into question by political changes in Eastern Europe and the withdrawal of some Soviet forces there.
Under Mr. Cheney's plan, the number of Army and Air Force personnel would be reduced in 1991 to its lowest level in 40 years, a cut that includes the elimination of two active Army divisions, the Second Armored Division at Fort Hood, Tex., and the Ninth Infantry Division at Fort Lewis, Wash.
Mr. Cheney said three additional divisions, one active and two reserve, would be eliminated in the future if the Soviet conventional threat continues to recede. The Pentagon projects reducing active Army strength in five years by 135,000 soldiers, about 18 percent from its current strength of 764,000.
Other reductions that Mr. Cheney said could be made pending completion of arms control efforts includes cutting Air Force tactical fighter wings from 36 to 31, reconsidering plans to build Trident submarines and other ships, and further cuts in the National Guard and the Reserves.
Mr. Cheney also made public a list of 35 domestic and 13 overseas bases that the Defense Department is considering closing, a move that is expected to touch off a political uproar on Capitol Hill.
Mr. Cheney's stress on preserving a long-range nuclear program is also likely to be the focus of debate in Congress. Many lawmakers have challenged the Pentagon's plan to build Stealth bombers, which cost more than $500 million each, and to increase money for the ''Star Wars'' missile defense system by $900 million when Moscow and Washington are moving to conclude a treaty cutting long-range arms.
At the news conference, the Secretary said the threat posed by Soviet nuclear forces had not diminished substantially. Referring to Moscow's long-range nuclear forces, he said, ''What we don't see is any reduction with respect to their strategic capability.''
While the Pentagon's purchasing power has declined steadily since 1985, Mr. Cheney said the 1991 military budget was the first time in recent years the Pentagon has proposed a cut in spending after allowing for inflation.
The Pentagon's long-term spending plan would leave the military with 22 percent less purchasing power in 1995 than it had in 1985, the height of the Reagan Administration's military buildup. Under the plan, military spending would represent 4 percent of the nation's gross national product in 1995.
The Pentagon budget for the fiscal year 1991 would cut 38,000 people from the armed services. The reduction would leave the military with 2,038,800 personnel, a force roughly equal to the size of the military in 1980. The Army and the Air Force would bear the brunt of the cuts; by the end of 1991, those two services would be at their lowest active force levels since 1950.
Under the 1991 budget, the Navy would eliminate two of its four battleships, including the Iowa, which lost 47 sailors last April when a gun turret exploded in a naval exercise. But the total number of ships would remain roughly constant at 546.
The Marine Corps, which emerged relatively unscathed, would begin planning to deactivate 14 artillery batteries. The Air Force would deactivate 14 of its 157 conventionally armed B-52 bombers and end production of its F-15E fighter plane.

GRAPHIC: Graph showing the selected areas of the military budget that may be cut, and the projected savings for the 1991 fiscal year (NYT) (pg. A1); photo: Defense Secretary Dick Cheney outlined plans for reshaping the military as he presented the department's $295 billion spending request (NYT/George Tames); graph showing ways of seeing the military budget (source: Office of Management and Budget) (NYT) (pg. A21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); US NAVY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MILITARY PERSONNEL; ARMIES; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; RESERVES (MILITARY); TREATIES; ATOMIC WEAPONS ARMED FORCES (92%); ARMIES (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); APPROVALS (68%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (64%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); 

PERSON: CHENEY, DICK (SEC); GORDON, MICHAEL R DICK CHENEY (93%); LEON E PANETTA (59%); JOHN WARNER (58%); MARK WARNER (50%); 



707 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-15

 
Pro-Government demonstrators in Rumania laid siege to the headquarters of the opposition parties in a well-organized response to opposition protests. Page A1

 
Washington's ties to the new leaders of Rumania, as well as other new governments in Eastern European, have been muted because of doubts that they have committed themselves to democratic change. A12

 
An initiative beyond Moscow's orbit emerged when the Baltic separatist movements persuaded their counterparts in Armenia and Azerbaijan to hold peace talks - without the Kremlin's presence. A1

 
News analysis: The political game is proving to be a tough one for Communists and the fledgling opposition parties in East Germany. A13 
 
 
Erich Honecker released from hospital, then arrested A13

 
Deposed Bulgarian leader moved to prison A13

 
Former Communists in Poland pick leaders for a new party
 A14

 
Will Nelson Mandela be released? All of South Africa, and the world, is awaiting what almost everybody thinks will be one of the most momentous events in South African history. A3

 
A major Israeli religious leader among Jews of North African origin, Rabbi Baruch Abu-Hatzera, has called for negotiations with the Palestinian Liberation Organization. A3

 
The hub of the Ho Chi Minh trail, the village of Tchepone in Laos, is now merely a cluster of simple buildings in a land still scarred by the rain of bombs dropped by American B-52's during the Vietnam War. A8

 
Reparations for the Bhopal accident, delayed by legal wrangling, have still not reached the victims, five years after the Union Carbide pesticide plant spewed lethal gases across the impoverished city. A9

 
The Vice President visited Jamaica on the final day of a three-day diplomatic mission to Latin America. The Prime Minister of Jamaica criticized the invasion of Panama and called for new elections there. A15

 
Carter praises Sandinista's preparations for elections
 A10

 
U.S. attacks U.N. chief over Cuba rights report A11

 
State of siege is lifted in Haiti A15

 
Economic analysis: Argentina's unlikely disciplinarian
 D1

 
Soyapango journal: Sand diggers' plight in El Salvador
 A4

 
National A16-21

 
A plan to cut five Army divisions while making new investments in costly strategic nuclear programs was proposed by Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, outlining his long-term plans for reshaping the military. A1

 
Democrats were skeptical about President Bush's $1.23 trillion budget, criticizing cuts in social programs and saying they doubted its thesis that the deficit can be eliminated without imposing new taxes. A1

 
News analysis: The new budget relies on the accuracy of favorable economic predictions and several accounting tricks to meet the budget deficit level required by law. A20

 
How domestic programs would fare under the budget
 A21

 
Site picked for National Air and Space Museum expansion
 A16

 
Boston Journal: A scholarship fund has eased racial tensions. It was created by Giusto and Evelyn DiMaiti, the parents of Carol Stuart, whose killing sparked racist sentiment. A1

 
City officials in Virginia Beach, Va., have been faulted for failing to properly plan for the racially tinged rioting and looting that hit the resort city over the Labor Day holiday. A16
 
Trial opens for tanker captain in Exxon Valdez oil spill
 A16

 
More people reportedly ready to testify against Mayor Barry
 A18

 
Funding Exchange becomes part of the charity landscape
 A18

 
Deaths of workers in confined spaces caused by suffocation, poisoning, and drowning in chemical and refinery tanks have prompted OSHA to consider issuing new guidelines. A17

 
A precursor of the optical computer, which uses pulses of light rather than currents of electricity, was demonstrated by scientists at Bell Laboratories. A1

 
Companies buying other companies - or buying their own stock - drove prices on Wall Street to record highs in the 1980's. Now there are signs that corporate America will no longer buy shares with such abandon. D1

 
RJR Reynolds bonds plunge for second straight day
 D1

 
Regional B1-5

 
News Analysis: The right to beg in the subways, upheld by Judge Leonard B. Sand, will likely have greater impact on the statute books and constitutional law journals than in New York's anarchic subway system. A1

 
Transcripts of the communications between the crew of Flight 52 and air traffic controllers were released, showing that the crew told regional controllers the plane ''would run out of fuel'' if redirected to Boston. B1

 
Albany's long-awaited new arena, due to open tonight with a black-tie cocktail party, is distressing some people in Albany. The Knickerbocker Arena, they say, is ugly. B1

 
A key witness at John Gotti's trial described taking part in the shooting of a carpenters union official after meeting with Mr. Gotti. B1
 
The Mayor's newest appointments are Carol O'Cleireacain, who will be New York City's finance commissioner, and Catherine Abate, who will be probation commissioner. B3

 
Dr. Krim came under fire on new Health Commissioner
 B1

 
A fund-raising letter says Cuomo is running for re-election.
 B3

 
A New Jersey housing investigation has been started by the Department of Housing and Urban Development after the discovery that the head of a small authority in Passaic was paid $245,000 in salary and ''ineligible'' extras. B5

 
Body of kidnap victim, 12, found in bags in the Bronx
 B3

 
Neediest Cases B5

 
Business Digest D1

 
Science Times
 
Infant immune system may be key to transplant progress
 C1

 
An electromagnetic gun may be able to launch satellites
 C1

 
Environmental problems threatened buried treasures of Egypt
 C1

 
An important clue to development of panic disorders C3

 
Progress toward a drug to fight inflammation of arthritis
 C3

 
Many fish species endangered by pollution and predators
 C4

 
An AIDS drug approved after clamor
 C5

 
Arts/Entertainment

 
How one team casts productions C15

 
Theater: ''Moving Targets'' C14

 
Music: The songs of Cole Porter C14

 
Connie Kay's purring jazz drums C15

 
Dance: The Ohad Naharin troupe C16

 
Word and Image: Noriega on ''Frontline'' C18

 
Fashion B7

 
Sports

 
Baseball: Strawberry arrested B10

 
Basketball: Syracuse tops St. John's B9

 
Ex-player at Creighton near court date B9

 
Football: Can the 49ers repeat? B9

 
Broncos have no answers B11

 
Steinberg to meet with Holmgren B11

 
Track and Field: Nehemiah finds motivation B10

 
Obituaries B6

 
Clarence (C) Sharpe, jazz saxophonist
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A22

 
Bush on defense: too much
 
An unfair ''Integrity Fund''
 
Topics: Super for some
 
Letters A22

 
Flora Lewis: Ethiopia peers west A23

 
Elizabeth Dore: Panama, key to Ortega's campaign A23

 
Daniel C. Maguire: The Governor and the Bishop A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (52%); 

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); JAMAICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); BULGARIA (79%); ARMENIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); HAITI (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); BUDGETS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); VIETNAM WAR (74%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); ARMIES (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); HISTORY (67%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%); RELIGION (66%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DICK CHENEY (56%); 



708 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Soyapango Journal;
Why the Sand Diggers Don't Protest Anymore

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SOYAPANGO, El Salvador, Jan. 27

 BODY:
Under the fiery sun on the bed of Las Canas River, sweat flows more freely than water. Here sand, not coffee, is king.
A roaring current carving a chasm through ash-skirted volcanos in the rainy season, Las Canas River is little more than a steamy trickle of diluted sewage from October to May.
That is a small blessing for legions of Salvadorans who earn their living excavating the riverbed's sand, which is used to make cement. It is backbreaking work. The heat and water-logged loads turn 35-year-olds into stooped, sun-wizened workers. 
But two years ago, an entrepreneur, Jose Rene Mendoza, undertook an ambitious plan to make himself the master of the Canas riverbed. His effort to corner the sand supply touched off a cycle of protest and violence involving three killings that offers a glimpse of the social and political melange behind the civil war.
 
A Matter of Survival
In most countries, the dispute would have been a civil case over property rights, the killings a common crime. But in this overpopulated country, survival often depends on land, and the line between civil and political crimes often blurs.
If the killings demonstrate the country's class divisions, the failure to prosecute the killers demonstrates why many Salvadorans believe that it is useless to try to change this stratified society through nonviolent efforts. As much as anything else, it is that feeling of futility that sustains the leftist rebels and drives the decade-old conflict.
That is an important lesson for United States policy makers, who are considering whether to renew aid to this country. Congress's attention has focused on high-profile human rights cases like the killing of six Jesuit priests in November. But it is the experiences of common Salvadorans, like the sand diggers, that will determine the success of American-financed effort to end the war by opening this rigid, class-conscious society.
Many of the sand diggers, who live in slums along the river's shores, are victims of the civil war, driven off their tiny plots around the country by the fighting. They are among the poorest of the poor. Few receive any of the $1.5 million a day in United States aid that sustains this all but bankrupt country. $6 on a Good Day The strong boast they can load four trucks in 10 hours, earning $6 on a good day, the same wage they received a decade ago, but their wives and children, who usually work alongside them, rarely complete more than two. After a decade of inflation, in which prices have quintupled, that is barely enough to survive.
''Every day it gets harder to get by,'' said 35-year-old Maria Candelaria, who has dug sand here for eight years.
Before the sand-digging season began two years ago, Mr. Mendoza expropriated a large part of the riverbed where she and about 350 others had worked. He put up barbed-wire fences and brought in armed guards and bulldozers. But the sand diggers said the land was public domain and began organizing with the help of a union, a member of a leftist labor coalition linked with the guerrillas.
A short time later, three soldiers came to the mud-walled home of 25-year-old Jose Arnoldo Cerritos. They bound his wrists. While one soldier stayed at the small house to guard his 19-year-old wife, two soldiers took him and her 56-year-old uncle, Vicente Cerritos Torres, human rights monitors say.
That same night, April 14, 1988, Arturo Navarro Garcia and his helper, Manuel de Jesus Lopez Ramos, were intercepted by two armed men in uniform as they returned from working on the river bottom, the rights monitors say. The soldiers made them lie face down on the ground and, after asking for Mr. Navarro by name, took him away.
 
Bodies Are Found
The bodies of the three men, who had attended meetings to organize a sand diggers' local, were found two days later in a ravine. All three had been shot in the head.
In his weekly homily, Gregorio Rosa Chavez, the Auxiliary Archbishop of nearby San Salvador, denounced the killings and blamed the air force. Residents who witnessed the three men's abduction say that an air force patrol had been in the area hours before the killings.
A court case was started. But two years later it has been forgotten as attention has passed to more recent human rights abuses. A spokesman for Tutela Legal, the Roman Catholic Church's legal affairs office, dismissed the likelihood of further progress in the case.
''We found the bodies,'' the spokesman said. The response illustrated how it is often impossible here to do more than identify the bodies of victims of rights abuses.
The rain-fed torrents long ago ripped out Mr. Mendoza's barbed-wire fence. But the sand diggers remain scared. They make sure to stay clear of the river bottom claimed by Mr. Mendoza.
Competition to dig and sell the sand is fiercer than ever. In the last two years, the number of sand diggers has climbed from 800 to 1,000, the workers estimated. But although double-digit inflation keeps eroding their earnings, they no longer even consider forming a union.
''It was a whim,'' one worker said. ''We need to organize, but look what happened last time.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Legions of Salvadorans, including children, earn their living excavating sand from the bed of Las Canas River in Soyapango. The efforts of an entrepreneur to corner the sand supply from the river touched off a cycle of protest and violence, including three killings. (NYT/Thomas Long); map of San Salvador showing location of Soyapango (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EL SALVADOR (93%); 

CITY: SAN SALVADOR, EL SALVADOR (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EL SALVADOR; SOYAPANGO (EL SALVADOR)

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; SAND AND GRAVEL; CHILDREN AND YOUTH RIVERS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CIVIL WAR (88%); POOR POPULATION (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); RELIGION (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); TRENDS (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (63%); 

PERSON: GRUSON, LINDSEY; MENDOZA, JOSE RENE JOSE RENE MENDOZA (78%); 



709 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Officials Chided in Virginia On Labor Day Racial Strife

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VIRGINIA BEACH, Va., Jan. 29

 BODY:
A special commission studying the racially tinged violence that shook this resort over the Labor Day holiday sharply faulted city officials today, asserting that they had failed to plan properly for the weekend and had failed to communicate adequately with blacks.
''There was an absence of leadership; there were failures of communication,'' the 17-member biracial commission said in a report submitted this afternoon to the City Council.
The commission stated unequivocally that ''no amount of rationalization'' could excuse the rioting and looting that occurred here for two nights in a final summer fling by thousands of black students from college fraternities and sororities all over the East Coast.
The commission also criticized leaders of black organizations, local as well as those representing student groups from elsewhere, for failing to stay in communication with city officials. 
 
'Unfortunate Combination'
But the ''magnitude of the 1989 problems,'' the commission said in its report, resulted not so much from ''the unlawful actions of a small percentage of the crowd'' as from ''an unfortunate combination of a lack of leadership, inadequate planning, poor preparation, failure of communication'' on the part of city officials.
The commission recommended that city officials begin planning immediately for next Labor Day, saying it was all but inevitable that ''black students will return to the city in large numbers.''
For next Labor Day, the commission suggested, the city should begin by analyzing race relations in this predominantly white resort and should consider establishing a permanent panel to monitor black-white tensions.
The commission also suggested that for future Labor Day weekends the city bring in promoters to stage events rather than leave visitors to find entertainment for themselves.
 
Message to the Police
Further, the commission said the predominantly white police force should be briefed on the concerns and sensitivities of young blacks. It said that more black officers should be visible on the streets for Labor Day weekends.
If city officials do not develop better plans and communication avenues for the 1990 Labor Day weekend, the commissioned warned, Virginia Beach could suffer further damage to its economy, already struggling from beach-front decay before the 1989 disturbances.
Further, the commission said, ''A repeat of Labor Day 1989 would, without doubt, strike a major blow to race relations in the city, the region and the Commonwealth.''
In the two days of beach-front rioting last Labor Day, at least 50 people were injured, hundreds were arrested and about 125 stores were looted.
The local police called in several hundred state troopers and several hundred National Guardsmen to restore order.
 
Reaction Is Positive
The commission was established by the City Council early last fall and was made up of educators, businessmen, civil rights leaders and other community figures, black and white.
The commission took statements and testimony from 74 people and reviewed scores of news articles and dozens of television tapes, some filmed by the police at the height of the looting.
Initial reaction to the report by top city officials, businessmen and black leaders was mostly positive.
Mayor Meyera Oberndorf, perhaps the prime target for the report's criticism, said she would study the report and its recommendations thoroughly.
''It is clear that everyone has the opportunity now to learn from the past and to move forward positively for the future,'' she said. ''The important thing is to learn how to accommodate and have a positive Labor Day 1990.''
Ms. Oberndorf asked the City Council members to study the report at once and to put into effect by the end of next week the recommendations they accept. ''I'm going to push you,'' she said.
 
'A Sense of Relief'
E. George Minns, the president of the Virginia Beach Chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, called the commission's report ''balanced'' and a ''solid contribution'' toward race relations, which were badly strained by the Labor Day events after being fairly good for the better part of a decade.
''There is a sense of relief and a lessening of tension,'' Mr. Minns said. ''The report brings forth some light of hope. The differences about it are minimal, and I think that's the conclusion of about 90 percent of the black leadership around here. The report looks at both sides, and all sides ought to stop pointing fingers now, take it like a man, so to speak, and move on toward implementation.''
A leading local businessman, Linwood O. Branch, president of the Virginia Beach Hotel and Motel Associations, praised the report, saying the commission ''did a really good job.''
The report said some tapes indicated that some of the looting was done by young people who were more likely high school students than any of the college students who had come to Virginia Beach to celebrate. The annual gathering first drew fraternities and sororities about 10 years ago and since has become known as ''Greekfest.''
The commission also said it had found some evidence of excessive police force. As for the rioters and looters, the commission report stated, ''No amount of rationalization can excuse the behavior of those individuals who destroyed, looted and generally violated the bounds of decency that circumscribe the actions of all who live in a civilized society.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (67%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); RACIAL RELATIONS; BLACKS (IN US); DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; FRATERNITIES AND SORORITIES; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (92%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); RIOTS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (75%); COASTAL AREAS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); ARRESTS (62%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR



710 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Site Picked for Space Museum Annex

BYLINE: By BARBARA GAMAREKIAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29

 BODY:
The Smithsonian Institution announced today that it had selected Dulles International Airport in northern Virginia for a proposed expansion of the National Air and Space Museum that would have room to display a space shuttle, a supersonic Concorde and other historic aircraft.
The planned $300 million complex, a series of vast hangars and other display areas expected to cover 27 acres at the southeast corner of the airport, would also provide much more research and storage space for the museum, which receives more visitors than any other in the nation.
Nearly 10 million people each year visit the 13-year-old museum on the Mall here. 
Congress must approve the Dulles site and provide money for the project before construction can begin, but Smithsonian officials said the first phase could be completed in five years. The expansion is expected to be completed by 2010, at which time the number of visitors to the annex could well reach six million, the officials said.
The Smithsonian's Board of Regents selected the Dulles location over the Baltimore-Washington International Airport in Maryland after a four-month site evaluation and heavy lobbying on the part of Maryland and Virginia legislators and the two state governments.
 
Factors in Selection
A principal reason Dulles was selected, the board said, was its more direct connection in people's minds with the city of Washington and, the board felt, it was important to maintain that attachment. Another reason was greater flexibility of planning afforded by the Dulles tract.
The annex is expected to prove an economic boon to the surrounding area. The airport is 26 miles, or about a 45-minute drive, from the center of Washington.
Visitors to the main museum on the Mall see only about 75 pieces of the 350 aircraft in the museum's collection, which traces the age of flight from its infancy to the moon landing and beyond.
New hangars at Dulles would display German, Japanese and American fighter planes from World War II; the space shuttle Enterprise; the restored B-29 Enola Gay, which dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima; a supersonic Concorde and other aircraft and spacecraft too large for display in the museum in Washington.
Plans also include a hangar where visitors would be able to observe restoration work in progress, said Martin Harwit, director of the National Air and Space Museum.
''We have for many years now wanted to get the go-ahead for constructing such a facility,'' Mr. Harwit said. ''Increasingly we have only been able to show airplanes from the early part of the century rather than the latter part of the century; they are too large to be brought down to the center of Washington.''
 
Authorization Is Required
Today's announcement on the new complex, which will be built with Federal and private money, is but a ''first step,'' said Robert McC. Adams, secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Mr. Adams pointed out that no authorization legislation was yet in place. At its May 7 meeting the board is expected to review draft legislation to establish the extension.
''We will work with Congress on authorizing legislation over the coming months,'' Mr. Adams said, ''and I should emphasize that today's declaration of preference does not mean Congress will support that preference. Congress may have a will of its own on this matter.''
The Smithsonian is a national institution, federally and privately supported, that includes arts, science and history museums, and research centers. Fourteen museums, including the Air and Space Museum, come under the institution's umbrella.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Among the aircraft that would be displayed at the National Air and Space Museum's extension at Dulles International Airport is the Enola Gay, the B-29 that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima, Japan. The plane is being restored at the museum's workshop in Suitland, Md.; map of Virginia showing the site for the proposed Annex (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (86%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (86%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL TELEPORT (55%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (93%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (93%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (93%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM; SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (WASHINGTON, DC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DULLES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HISTORY; WORLD WAR II (1939-45); ATOMIC WEAPONS; NYTRAVEL MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); AIRPORTS (93%); WORLD WAR II (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SPACE SHUTTLE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); LOBBYING (74%); AIRLINES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (66%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (61%); 

PERSON: GAMAREKIAN, BARBARA



711 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Founded by Idealists, Group Thrives on Need

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN TELTSCH

 BODY:
In the 70's, they were a phenomenon in philanthropy: rich young people with avowedly leftist politics using their inheritances to promote ''change, not charity.''
Around the country, they organized community groups opposing the Vietnam War, picketed nuclear plants and demonstrated for desegregated housing. On the local level, they gave money for battered women and abused children, the homeless and disabled, homosexuals, lesbians, minority members and a range of neighborhood groups that could not attract help from conventional donors.
Today, they have grown into a network called the Funding Exchange covering 25 states; last year they gave away $5.5 million, typically in small grants of about $1,500. The sums are tiny when compared with the Ford Foundation's $218 million in annual donations, but important because they often provide seed money for an emerging community group. 
''We find and help these newcomers because we are closer to the ground,'' said June Makela, executive director of the network since its beginning in 1979. And to keep the decisions close to the ground, all Funding Exchange members have governing boards with community representatives determining how money should be spent.
 
Landscape of Philanthropy
In a buoyant reunion, the original organizers of the Funding Exchange, now in their 30's and 40's, joined hundreds of their supporters in Manhattan recently for the 10th anniversary of the network, which now links 15 statewide or regional members like Vanguard and Liberty Hill in San Francisco and Los Angeles and Crossroads and North Star in Chicago and New York.
''We've grown up; we're part of the landscape of American philanthropy,'' said George Pillsbury, an heir to the family baking fortune, who gave away most of a $400,000 inheritance and helped found the Haymarket People's Fund in Boston. ''We're now seen as members of the club.''
The political activism of the network members has not changed, although the causes have. Network members oppose United States involvement in Central America and dealings with South African businesses. They organize demonstrations by rent-strikers, support farmers' boycotts and rally against growth in military spending.
''North Star gives to the smartest, angriest and most community-active groups in New York,'' the Manhattan Borough President, Ruth W. Messinger, said of that 12-year-old philanthropy.
Over the years, network members have often been out in front in supporting new issues.
 
Help for Battered Women
Vanguard financed one of the first shelters for battered women in 1976, years before larger foundations or government agencies began supporting projects against domestic violence. When other foundations begged off, Vanguard was among the first to finance a brochure on safe sex. The brochure, ''Can We Talk?,'' has been translated into 40 languages.
But increasingly the network is adopting techniques of mainstream philanthropy. Instead of depending on a fragile year-to-year financing base, the Funding Exchange has begun a fund-raising campaign to establish a $15 million endowment. And members are scouting college campuses to attract a new generation of wealthy donors.
''The endowment represents a giant step,'' Ms. Makela said. ''It says we intend to stay around for decades to come. Skeptics predicted these rich young kids would soon get tired and outgrow radical politics. Instead, our donor base has grown to 4,000 contributors, and they are no longer just young people with inheritances, but wage earners.''
The network's organizers came to terms with their generation's role in philanthropy in different ways.
A few of the network's organizers grew up in families with a tradition of giving to liberal causes. Anne H. Hess, for one, quotes the teachings of her grandmother Edith Stern, a daughter of Julius Rosenwald, the philanthropist, who amassed a fortune in the 1890's from Sears, Roebuck & Company.
 
'Responsibility of Wealth'
Ms. Hess, who, along with Mr. Pillsbury, is directing the endowment campaign, said: ''My grandmother always said one responsibility of wealth is giving it away responsibly. This was a lesson she learned from her father.''
''I came of age when young people in their 20's with a social conscience felt foundations were not meeting our political agenda, or promoting human rights for women, for prisoners, farm workers or Native Americans,'' Ms. Hess said.
Some young donors said inheriting money evoked feelings of guilt, embarrassment, fear of envy, or doubts about self-worth. Many of these concerns, they found, are explored sympathetically in a manual called ''Robin Hood Was Right,'' which network members published in 1977.
John Lapham said that when he came into his inheritance from a family business, he felt confused and isolated. ''It was taboo to talk of money to my family and friends,'' he said. ''I read the Robin Hood book, and I went to a Haymarket meeting and I found a place where I could give my money and it felt right for me.''
Charles Collins, a great-grandson of Oscar Mayer, founder of the meat-packing company, learned at 16 that he would come into an inheritance. ''I dreaded the whole idea,'' Mr. Collins said. ''My father told me I need never work, but he hoped I would.''
A steady supporter of the Haymarket Fund, Mr. Collins gave away virtually all his $300,000 four years ago, mainly to Haymarket. He supports himself with a modest salary from the Institute for Community Economics, a 12-year-old nonprofit organization that runs the country's largest loan fund for low-income housing.
''My biggest worry was the bad effect this might have on my family relations,'' Mr. Collins said, ''and I simmered inside. But I was able to talk it through during long walks with my father.''
At the Funding Exchange's celebration, with his father looking on proudly, Mr. Collins was given the group's first Robin Hood award.
''Whenever I begin to sound self-righteous, my partner, Rebecca Morrison, has a way of pulling me up short,'' he said. ''She reminds me all I did was the moral equivalent of finding a wallet on the street and returning it to its owner.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Funding Exchange, started by rich young people using their inheritances to promote change, has grown into a network covering 25 states. At the group's tenth reunion, June Makela, executive director, met with George Pillsbury, who gave away most of his $400,000 inheritance to help found a community group in Boston. (NYT/Michelle V. Agins)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: FUNDING EXCHANGE (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: FUNDING NETWORK (ORGN)

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY FOUNDATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); CHARITIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); CHILD ABUSE (71%); WOMEN'S SHELTERS (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); BOYCOTTS (61%); 

PERSON: PILLSBURY, GEORGE; MAKELA, JUNE; TELTSCH, KATHLEEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 



712 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: The 1991 Budget: Tax Breaks;
Bush Offers Savings Plan and Asks for Smaller Cut in Gains Tax

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29

 BODY:
President Bush proposed a revised plan today for cutting capital gains taxes and offered tax breaks for a new type of savings account.
He said the measures, which are the centerpieces of his revenue proposals, would encourage people to save and would promote business investment and economic growth.
The proposals are part of a package of more than two dozen tax changes outlined in the President's budget for the fiscal year 1991, including new or increased fees and taxes on a variety of activities, from boating and air travel to securities transactions.
The capital gains cut proposal, identified in the President's budget only as a measure to ''enhance long-term investment,'' is less generous than the one Mr. Bush advanced unsuccessfully last year. 
 
A Money-Maker in '91
The rate reductions, which would vary according to a taxpayer's income bracket, would be phased in over three years and would be smaller for assets held only one or two years. Under current law, capital gains are taxed at the same rate as ordinary income; last year, the President proposed cutting the rate to 15 percent.
The Administration estimates that cutting the capital gains tax would raise $4.9 billion in new revenue for 1991 as people cash in their holdings to take advantage of the lower rate. This would be the largest item in the revenue package. The second largest, at $2.5 billion, would be achieved through unspecified ''management reforms'' at the Internal Revenue Service.
Other tax changes, like the savings account proposal and an expansion of existing tax credits to help parents pay for child-care expenses, would cost the Treasury money. But taken together, the Administration said, the major proposals in the package would raise at least $13.9 billion in new revenue for the next fiscal year, and the new or increased fees would bring in $2 billion more.
Congressional Democrats were skeptical of these revenue calculations, saying some of the projected gains were temporary or based on accounting gimmickry. For example, the growth in capital gains revenue would be a short-term phenomenon, they said; in the long term, reducing rates would cost the Treasury billions and enlarge the Federal deficit. They were particularly doubtful that management changes at the I.R.S. could raise $2.5 billion.
Mr. Bush's modified version of the capital gains rate reduction addresses some of the issues raised by the Democratic leadership in Congress last year, but it is still likely to be the major battleground in this year's tax policy fight.
Capital gains, the profits on sales of real estate, stocks, bonds, timber and the like, are taxed at the same rate as ordinary income. For those in the 28 percent bracket, Mr. Bush's proposal would reduce the rate to 19.6 percent for assets held at least three years. The rate for assets held two to three years would be 22.4 percent, and the rate for assets held at least one year but less than two would be 25.2 percent.
Investments in artwork, antiques or precious metals would not qualify for the reduced rates.
The budget proposals include a number of new fees and levies that affect businesses, including a ''transaction tax'' of 11 cents on all commodity trades. Another proposal would limit the deductions permitted to banks or other lenders for loans to employee stock opportunity programs, or ESOP's.
Mr. Bush's proposal to increase domestic saving, which his budget says ''is of major importance for promoting higher rates of growth and an improved standard of living,'' builds on ideas advanced by Democrats as well as Republicans last year. It would create a new type of savings account on which interest would not be taxed, and it would change rules on existing Individual Retirement Accounts to permit penalty-free withdrawals for people buying their first home.
The new savings accounts would be limited to people with income below $60,000 a year and couples with joint incomes below $120,000 a year. Up to $2,500 a year could be contributed to these special accounts, and interest earned on it would be tax-free as long as the money remained in the account. After seven years, the money could be withdrawn tax-free.
 
Incentives to Keep Saving
To encourage people to hold the accounts for that period, money withdrawn in the first three years would be subject to a 10 percent excise tax on the investment income. Withdrawals made between three and seven years would be taxed like ordinary income.
The Administration estimated that the plan would cost $200 million in 1991, rising to $1 billion in 1993.
A separate proposal by the President that would permit first-time home buyers to withdraw their money from Individual Retirement Accounts without tax penalties is a more limited version of savings incentive plans that lawmakers in both parties suggested last year. Under current law, deductions for contributions to retirement accounts are limited to a relatively small number of lower-income taxpayers, and there are no exceptions for withdrawing the money.
Senator Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat who heads the Senate Finance Committee, proposed last year that people with higher incomes be eligible for some tax break on retirement accounts and that penalty-free withdrawals also be permitted for home buying and educational expenses.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Employees stacking copies of the 1991 budget at the Government Printing Office bookstore yesterday (NYT/George Tames)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE (59%); GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; SAVINGS ACCOUNTS AND CERTIFICATES TAXES & TAXATION (93%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (93%); BUDGETS (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); BONDS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (62%); CHILD CARE (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); RASKY, SUSAN F GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



713 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: The 1991 Budget: Forecasts;
The Rosy Path to Cutting the Deficit

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29

 BODY:
To meet the budget deficit level required by law, the Bush Administration used favorable assumptions about economic growth, proposed many of the same spending cuts Congress has rejected time and again and suggested several accounting tricks.
Thus, despite the exhortation of Richard G. Darman, the budget director, that ''there is an obligation to be serious,'' the Administration's proposals do not provide a sure-fire way of cutting the deficit.
The projection that the economy will grow by 2.6 percent in this calendar year is not implausable, but it is at the optimistic end of the range of forecasts by private economists.
The Congressional Budget Office predicts that growth this year will be only 1.8 percent, in line with the consensus of private economists. If that is the case, the deficit in the next fiscal year would be $100 billion, not the $63 billion foreseen by the Administration, Congressional economists said. 
 
The Record of Forecasting
Over the years, the executive branch's record of forecasting has been about as good as Congress's. A favorable forecast last summer for the calendar year 1989 proved much closer to the mark on unemployment, interest rates and growth than the more pessimistic forecasts of most economists. But the discrepancy shows how much the Administration's deficit estimate depends on continued prosperity.
The Administration calculates that if all Government programs were continued with an added allotment to account for inflation, the deficit in the 1991 fiscal year would be $100.5 billion. This is called the current services budget, or baseline.
The budget submitted today lays out $36.5 billion in spending cuts and revenue increases to bring the projected deficit below the $64 billion mandatory target set by the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget-balancing law.
Some of those proposed cuts, like a slowdown in the increase of military spending and legislated reductions in Medicare fees to doctors and hospitals, would, if enacted, provide real budget saving.
But other proposals, like ending operating grants for urban mass transit systems and disallowing cost-of-living pension increases to retired Federal employees, have been rejected year after year by Congress and stand almost no chance of being approved.
 
Stumbling Blocks to a Goal
If the economy does not perform as well as the Administration expects and if Congress continues to refuse to accept cuts in popular domestic programs, the deficit target will be missed. No compromise is in sight. The outlook is for another difficult year of negotiations.
In addition, billions of dollars would be raised, according to budget estimates, through accounting gimmicks or steps like generating a quick surge of revenue by cutting the capital gains tax. These may be painless, but they are of questionable long-term benefit to deficit reduction.
After a decade of Presidential requests for large increases in the military budget, Mr. Bush asked Congress to approve less for the Pentagon than what would be needed to keep pace with inflation.
Democratic lawmakers are sure to try to cut the military budget further to allow more money for domestic spending. But they concede that this will be difficult this year when the President is already offering a relatively low level of military spending.
 
The Medicare Payment Plan
The other proposal that promises a large saving over many years is a limit on Medicare payments to doctors and hospitals. Two powerful lobbies - doctors, who would see their fees cut, and the elderly, who fear doctors would stop treating Medicare patients if their fees were lowered - will vigorously oppose this measure, and its enactment is thus problematical.
Most other spending reductions come from a familiar list proposed many times by the Reagan Administration. In addition to cuts in mass transit grants and Federal pensions, the list includes an end to subsidies for Amtrak, a reduction in payments to poor families for home heating and weatherization, the abolition of the Economic Development Administration, a cut in school assistance to communities with military bases or other Federal installations and the end of grants to public libraries.
 
The Power of Constituencies
In private, many lawmakers concede that some proposals are worthwhile. But most have powerful constituencies - developers, teachers' unions and big-city mayors, for instance - and Congress is reluctant to touch these programs.
The largest single revenue increase proposed by the Administration would come from its measure to lower the capital gains tax. The budget estimates that the tax cut would raise nearly $5 billion in the first year.
Economists do not generally dispute that figure, agreeing that investors would pay more taxes right off the bat as they sold investments to take advantage of the lower rates. But while the Administration maintains that revenue would be increased indefinitely, Congressional tax experts have calculated that the long-term loss of money to the Treasury would be substantial.
 
Darman Concedes a Gimmick
The rest of the nearly $14 billion in higher revenue would come from fees for using Government services or from accounting tricks.
Like some of the proposed spending cuts, many of these fees have been repeatedly turned down by Congress. Having rejected many times the idea of charging boaters a fee for using waterways patrolled by the Coast Guard, Congress is hardly likely to go along with it this year.
At his news conference today, Mr. Darman conceded one gimmick to raise money. The budget proposes that large employers be required to submit daily to the Government the taxes they withhold from workers' paychecks.
If that sounds familiar, it is because Congress passed such a law last year to cover this fiscal year, 1990. But, to leave themselves room to find last-minute revenue in this year's negotiations, they allowed employers to take more time to forward the money. The Administration would simply leave the one-day requirement in place.
 
The Tricks May Be Inevitable
Other revenue increases seem less solid. The budget envisions raising $3 billion through management improvements at the Internal Revenue Service. About $500 million of this would come from hiring new tax agents.
The rest would come, said Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, by having agents concentrate on tax cases likely to produce the biggest settlements for the Government.
In addition, the Administration decided late last year to speed up Medicare reimbursements to doctors and hospitals for one year. As a result $1.5 billion was shifted from the fiscal year 1991 to the fiscal year 1990.
Given the constraints of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings legislation, the favorable economic forecasts, the unrealistic spending cuts and the accounting tricks may be inevitable.
The law, said Joseph White, a budget specialist at the Brookings Institution, ''sets a total no one can possibly hit with serious policy proposals.''

GRAPHIC: Table of econominc jforecasts by the Bush Administration and the Congressional Budget Office (source: council of Economic Advisers; Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (92%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); TAX LAW (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); MEDICARE (70%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); HOSPITALS (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (63%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E RICHARD GORDON 'RICHARD G' DARMAN (58%); 



714 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: The 1991 Budget;
A Guide to Budget Trouble Spots

 BODY:

ITEM: MILITARY
BUSH: Bush's budget would increase military spending by less than the rate of inflation, but spending would still increase.
DEMOCRATS: Democrats in Congress will want to cut Pentagon spending beyond what Bush has proposed and are more eager to eliminate expensive weapons systems. 
 
ITEM: DEFICIT
BUSH: The budget reduces the projected deficit to under $64 billion, by continuing to use the surplus in the Social Security trust fund to mask a larger operating deficit. It assumes, the economy can grow out of the budget deficit, avoiding tax increases or severe spending cuts.
DEMOCRATS: The Democrats question whether economic conditions will allow the Government to grow its way out of the deficit and believe that some of the spending cuts Bush has proposed are unrealistic.
 
ITEM: TAXES
BUSH: Bush proposes no general tax increase and is seeking to lower the taxes on capital gains.
DEMOCRATS: Most Democrats say that cutting the capital gains tax alone favors the rich, and some are considering reducing the Social Security tax.
 
ITEM: DOMESTIC
BUSH: Bush would expand Federal child care assistance through tax credits, and would add money to fight drugs, improve education and plant trees, while cutting money for Medicare, Amtrak and mass transit.
DEMOCRATS: Democrats would give grants to states and communities for child care, would provide more money for the fight against drugs, education and the environment and resist other proposed cuts.
 
ITEM: FOREIGN AID
BUSH: Bush-would increase foreign aid, and wants more flexibility to distribute foreign aid payments. He has not formally endorsed a plan to take money from Israel and Egypt and give it to Eastern Europe.
DEMOCRATS: Democrats and Republicans will zealously guard Congress's practice of saying specifically where the money should go, and want to give more new money to East Europe than Bush would.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (65%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (55%); MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAX LAW (92%); BUDGETS (92%); DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); INFLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DRUG POLICY (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (71%); MEDICARE (69%); CHILD CARE (66%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)



715 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: The 1991 Budget: Proposals;
How Bush's Plan Would Affect Domestic Efforts

 BODY:
Here are President Bush's budget proposals for major domestic programs for the 1991 fiscal year:
 
Drugs and Crime
The President's spending proposal would increase the Justice Department's budget by 19 percent from last year to nearly $9 billion, excluding funds set aside for a multiyear Federal prison construction program. The most significant increases, earmarked for anti-drug activities, were announced last week as part of President Bush's new plan to combat drug trafficking.
Some agencies in the Justice Department would suffer reductions. The Federal Bureau of Investigation, for instance, would receive a slight spending increase, but would lose nearly 400 positions. The decrease would probably result in a reduction in the number of agents assigned to areas like organized crime and white-collar crime. 
 
Education
The Administration proposed $41 billion for education, training, and employment programs and ancillary social services, $400 million more than would be spent under current law and $3 billion more than is expected to be spent in the current fiscal year.
The budget proposed an $880 million increase to $10 billion in spending for elementary and secondary school education for the disadvantaged.
The budget would also increase by $500 million the funds for Head Start, a program intended to prepare young children to succeed in school, for a total of $1.9 billion. The proposal would also increase by $1.2 billion, to a total of $19.7 billion, discretionary funds for education.
The budget also proposed $239 million for adult literacy programs, a 25 percent increase over the current budget.
 
Environment
Continuing to reverse the pattern of budgets under President Reagan, Mr. Bush is proposing substantial new spending on environmental programs. Among the significant additions are $269 million for a program to provide money for acquiring parkland and for a major reforestation effort across the country. Mr. Bush is also calling for increased spending to protectwetlands, a hefty increase for research into global climate change and using nearly $780 million to clean up nuclear contamination and other pollution at Federal installations.
The Environmental Protection Agency's total proposed budget would rise by a modest $48 million dollars to $5.6 billion. But its important operating budget, with which it administers the anti-pollution laws, would rise by 12 percent to $2.17 billion.
 
Health
The Administration proposed reducing Medicare premiums by $60 a year for beneficiaries who join a Health Maintenance Organization. To further encourage membership in such programs, the Administration is developing a new program, ''Medicare Plus,'' that would combine membership in a Preferred Provider Organization with Medigap, the Medicare supplemental insurance.
The proposal would also offer the states incentives to enroll people in such programs. An H.M.O. is a highly structured organization of doctors and others that offers a full range of medical services. A P.P.O. is a less structured group of doctors who have agreed to take lower fees than they would otherwise charge in exchange for a higher volume of patients.
The Administration also proposed reducing the projected growth of Medicare by $5.6 billion, and obtaining $1.9 billion more in revenues. But Medicare expenditures are still expected to increase by $10 billion, to $116 billion.
The budget would also provide a $109 million increase in AIDS research, prevention and other activities, for a total of $1.7 billion. Total spending on AIDS would be $3.1 billion.
 
Labor
For the Labor Department, the President proposes a small increase in spending, from $24.9 billion in the 1990 fiscal year to $26.3 billion. Most of the budget, $19.4 billion, represents benefits the Government pays to unemployed workers. If the unemployment rate is higher than the 5.3 percent the Government predicts for the year - a rate that some economists say is optimistic - that spending would rise.
Still, Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole obtained room for spending increases in areas that she has put high among her priorities, including an increase of $261 million, to $5.3 billion for employment and training, she told reporters today. She would reduce spending for special summer training programs, from $715 million to $220 million, but she would raise spending from $44 million in the 1990 fiscal year to $1.4 billion for longer-term programs, especially one designed to ease young people's transition from school to work.
The Occupational Safety and Health Administration would get 34 more inspectors, bringing to more than 200 the number that she has addeed since taking office.
 
Science and Space
A major theme of the proposed budget is investment in the future, and the Bush Administration, seeing the space program as a big part of that, wants to increase the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's budget to $15.2 billion. That would be a 24 percent rise from the previous year, which would be the largest percentage increase for any major agency.
The additional $2.9 billion includes a 36 percent increase for the space station, alloting $2.6 billion for the manned space platform, which is to be launched in 1995, so that construction could begin on those parts requiring long lead times. The space agency also asked for $237 million to start an orbiting Earth Observing System, a program that would use a series of satellites and a computer network to measure and monitor environmental changes.
 
Transportation
The Transportation Department requested $26.9 billion, a figure that is 4.2 percent below this year's spending level. Big increases for the Federal Aviation Administration and the Coast Guard were offset by proposals to eliminate Federal subsidies for the Amtrak rail system and to cut operating subsidies for mass transport systems in large cities. In past years Congress has refused to make similar cuts in both programs.
The department proposed to cover 77 percent of its budget through user fees, and proposed two increases in the user fees that help pay for aviation programs. The existing 8 percent tax on airline tickets would be raised to 10 percent, and local airports would be granted authority to impose their own taxes on passengers and could spend that money on airport improvements.
 
Agriculture
President Bush also proposed increasing spending at the Department of Agriculture by $500 million in the 1991 fiscal year to $48.7 billion. The Administration proposed changes in Federal law that would reduce spending for crop subsidy programs by $1.5 billion to $10.24 billion. The Administration has called for cuts in a broad array of programs administered by the Department of Agriculture including programs for feeding children which now cost $127 million, meat and poultry inspection costing $52 million, loans for farmers which would cost $848 million, and housing for rural families, costing $420 million.
Several programs were identified by the Administration for modest increases. The Presidents asked Congress for $38 million for basic farm research. Several lawmakers criticized the small increase at a time when consumers are calling for more field studies on cultivation practices that produce food with fewer chemicals.
 
Energy
The Administration has asked for $1 billion more for the Department of Energy, for a total of $17.5 billion. Much of the extra money would go into improvements to make the network of deteriorating nuclear weapons laboratories and factories safer and to clean up decades of environmental contamination. Overall, the Administration has asked Congress to approve $3.3 billion to address environmental issues, making the Energy Department one of the Government largest managers of environmental programs. In comparison the budget for the Environmental Protection Agency is $5.8 billion.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 31, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a summary article yesterday about President Bush's budget proposals for domestic programs misstated the proposed budget for the Environmental Protection Agency. It is $5.8 billion.

GRAPHIC: Table showing the budget proposals gains and losses (source: Office of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: PREFERRED PROVIDER ORGANIZATION OF MICHIGAN INC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); MEDICARE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (84%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); CHILDREN (73%); REFORESTATION (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); CLIMATE CHANGE (69%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (63%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (54%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



716 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: The Moment, Missed;
Mr. Bush on Defense: Too Much, Too Late

 BODY:
The foundations of Communist power are crumbling. The threat of Soviet attack is radically diminished. Yet President Bush, in his new budget, would continue to arm for nuclear war. His unwillingness to declare a ''peace dividend'' creates a monumental missed opportunity. 
Mr. Bush's one-page budget message makes no mention of any savings on defense spending. Worse, Budget Director Richard Darman derides the whole notion as a ''wonderland'' fantasy. With that attitude, the opportunity for America to assert its concern for neglected needs at home and abroad will just have to wait.
No one expects a quick big dividend. Strategic arms and conventional force reductions are still in negotiation with Moscow; they will take years to carry out. In time, the savings could amount to $50 billion a year. But planning for peace takes time, too. After four decades of cold war it is time to test new ideas - to help country after country as they emerge from the Communist chrysalis; and to relieve desperate domestic problems too long ignored.
For now, President Bush seeks to cut military spending - in real terms, discounted for inflation -by 2.6 percent next year, and 2 percent annually thereafter. Symbolically, that's a reversal of the upward path he projected just a year ago, and a dramatic departure from President Reagan's escalation. As a practical matter, however, this only acquiesces in what Congress has been doing to the defense budget for five years. Since the peak of the Reagan buildup in 1985, defense spending in constant dollars has shrunk by 16 percent.
The Administration argues against shrinking faster now, on grounds that conditions in the Communist world remain uncertain. It advances only cautious cutbacks, in order to be flexible in the unlikely event that the cold war resumes. Indeed, the cuts proposed are uncertain too, like base closings that protective Congressmen are bound to resist.
Mr. Bush puts his emphasis not on money for peace but on more weapons - five more Stealth bombers, a new Trident submarine and continued deployment of a global Navy.
As an example of far-fetched rationalization, consider his request for the ''Star Wars'' nuclear defense system. Continued research is in order, but Mr. Bush goes further. He seeks $1 billion more than the $3.8 billion Congress voted last year. Why? Ignoring the erosion of the Soviet menace that originally justified this system, the Administration argues now that America needs this protection against smaller countries with nuclear weapons.
No budget is a Bible. In proposing to cut defense only 2 percent, Mr. Bush knows perfectly well that Congress will cut more. In his failure to acknowledge deeper cuts at the outset, he invites a year's battle with Congress over where to chop. The year might be spent more profitably debating where to plant new seed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EDITORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); COLD WAR (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); CLOSINGS (62%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



717 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: The Moment Missed;
His 'Integrity Fund': Arbitrary, Unfair

 BODY:
The Social Security Integrity and Debt Reduction Fund: what a noble-sounding proposal President Bush offers in his new budget. But it's deceptive nobility, that masks two devastating facts:
* The proposal would do nothing to save Social Security.
* It would amass huge budget surpluses at the expense of valuable Federal programs and with the help of a payroll tax that hits low-paid workers hardest. 
The Administration deserves acclaim for its willingness to take the deficit seriously. This plan, however, swings astonishingly far in the opposite direction. It sets an unwise goal, and would reach it in unjust ways.
The new Bush proposal is plainly meant to parry the recent thrust from Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and others who want to end the use of Social Security payroll taxes to pay the Government's bills. But like the Senator, Mr. Bush has disguised the cost of his proposal.
The President contends that his Integrity Fund will protect future retirees and taxpayers. But that's impossible. The goods that retirees will buy with their Social Security checks come from the economy's current taxpaying producers. Future taxpayers cannot be spared the burden. So Mr. Bush's idea has little to do with saving Social Security. But it has a lot to do with controlling the Federal deficit.
At the moment, increases in the Social Security payroll tax help offset deficit spending. Under the Bush plan this money would, in effect, be excluded from the calculation of the deficit under the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings law. How would the Government then cover the resulting deficit? It would have to pass big expenditure cuts or tax increases.
At first glance, that might seem attractive. It would end the practice of paying ordinary bills with money that was supposed to pay the retirement benefits of future retirees. And it would lower the deficit, releasing the nation's savings for private investment. Economists plead for that type of fiscal discipline.
But there are two glaring faults. The goal is excessive; the method of finance is unfair.
The goal is excessive because the nation does not need the Government to run hundred-billion-dollar surpluses. Given the arbitrary way the Federal deficit is defined, there's no special significance in the number zero. There is plenty of reason to reduce the deficit but no compelling reason to balance the budget, let alone run huge surpluses.
Yes, the nation's savings rate is too low. Yes, lowering the deficit would improve matters. But flipping from huge deficits to huge surpluses would be unfair and unjustified.
Why unfair? Because Mr. Bush refuses to raise income taxes, leaving only one way to reduce spending enough to create huge surpluses: harsh cuts in valuable Federal programs. What's left to cut? Food stamps? Head Start? The weakness of the Integrity Fund idea becomes obvious as soon as the costs are confronted.
The Integrity Fund, in other words, is a means to control the budget, not to protect Social Security. As soon as Congress recognizes that, it might choose a wholly different form of control. Instead of cutting deeply into programs, it could raise income taxes, or gasoline taxes. Some such combination would be much fairer to poorer people than payroll tax hikes.
There is little integrity in disguising a draconian policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); EDITORIALS SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); SAVINGS RATES (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); 

PERSON: MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); 



718 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Makes Choices For 3 More High Posts

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins yesterday named Carol O'Cleireacain, chief economist of the largest municipal workers union in New York City, to be the city's finance commissioner, and Catherine M. Abate, head of the State Crime Victims Board, as probation commissioner.
Mr. Dinkins also appointed Victor M. Quintana, who was a special assistant in the Manhattan Borough President's office under Mr. Dinkins, to head a newly created office of constituent affairs, overseeing the Mayor's relations with black, Hispanic and Asian-American New Yorkers and with veterans, lesbians and gay men.
At the same time, city officials said Mr. Dinkins was negotiating with Milton Mollen, presiding justice of the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, to become the city's criminal justice coordinator. One official said the Mayor went to the judge's chambers yesterday to discuss the job. More Weight for Job? The post of the coordinator, who oversees dealings among the police, district attorneys and the courts, has the rank and pay of a commissioner but has not been a strong position in recent years, though it once had the rank of deputy mayor. Some members of the Mayor's staff and transition team have urged that the job be given greater weight in organizing crime-fighting policy in the face of rising violence and overcrowded courts and jails. 
Justice Mollen, who is 70 years old, is one of the most powerful judges in the state. He is reported to want the status of deputy mayor as a condition of taking the job. The judge did not return a telephone call to his office seeking comment. First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel refused to comment.
Ms. O'Cleireacain (pronounced oh-CLARE-uh-kun) has been the chief economist of District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees since 1976. She was a fiscal adviser to Mr. Dinkins in his mayoral campaign last year.
The finance commissioner is responsible for collecting taxes and helping form the city's tax policy and also sits on the boards that oversee pension funds for city workers. Asked whether as a longtime union advocate she would have trouble being part of management, both Ms. O'Cleireacain and Mr. Dinkins said no. ''I consider myself a professional,'' she said.
Ms. O'Cleireacain, 43, with bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Michigan and a doctorate from the London School of Economics, took pains to say that she considered the finance commissioner's main role to be raising money, not spending it.
She is to take office Feb. 20 and be paid $110,000 a year.
Ms. Abate (pronounced uh-BAH-tay), who is 42, formerly served as executive deputy commissioner of the State Division of Human Rights and as a training director and trial lawyer for the Legal Aid Society. She is Vassar College graduate with a law degree from Boston University. She is to take office in March at a salary of $103,000.
 
'The Bottom Line'
She replaces Kevin T. Smyley, who has been mentioned as a candidate for several city jobs. In a telephone interview, he said his plans were still uncertain. ''The bottom line is I want to serve in whatever capacity that I can be of use to the Mayor and the city,'' he said.
Mr. Quintana, 41, has worked as an organizer for community-based housing and tenant groups, and managed the Borough President's field office in upper Manhattan. A graduate of Lehman College, he is to take office Feb. 5 at a salary of $70,000 a year.
In his new job, which consolidates parts of several functions that were performed by different people in the Koch administration, he will report to Deputy Mayor Bill Lynch, the Mayor's chief political aide.

GRAPHIC: photos: Carol O'Cleireacain, left, newly appointed New York City finance commissioner, speaking yesterday with Catherine M. Abate, the new probation commissioner, as they were introduced at City Hall.; Mayor David N. Dinkins named his former special assistant, Victor M. Quintana, to the new office of constituent affairs. (NYT/Ed Quinn)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCE, DEPARTMENT OF (NYC); PROBATION, DEPARTMENT OF (NYC); CONSTITUTENT AFFAIRS, OFFICE OF (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); MAYORS (90%); PROBATION (90%); CITIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LAWYERS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); GAYS & LESBIANS (75%); COUNTIES (74%); TAX LAW (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICS (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; O'CLEIREACAIN, CAROL; ABATE, CATHERINE M; QUINTANA, VICTOR M DAVID N DINKINS (94%); CAROL O'CLEIREACAIN (79%); 



719 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 4, Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: From Minnow to Sturgeon, North American Fish Are in Peril

 BODY:
ONE in three species or subspecies of native freshwater fish in North America is or may be threatened by the degradation of lakes, rivers and streams, scientists say.
Fish in waterways all over the continent are being affected by urban, agricultural and industrial development, pollution and the introduction of competitive or predatory fish, the researchers say.
And though governmental efforts like the Endangered Species Act have been successful in individual cases, they have been unable to solve the overall problem.
There are about 1,000 species and subspecies of freshwater fish in the United States, Canada and Mexico. In a new report, the American Fisheries Society says 364 of them fit one of three categories: endangered, which means facing extinction in all or a significant portion of their ranges; threatened, meaning likely to become endangered in the near future; and of ''special concern,'' meaning that relatively minor disturbances to the environment could place them in danger. 
That is 113 more species and subspecies than were on the society's first list, compiled in 1979. It does not include the 40 species thought to have become extinct in this century.
 
From Minnows to Sturgeon
On the new list, published in the November-December issue of the journal Fisheries, are many types of fish throughout the continent, including all 50 states. They range from large to tiny, from obscure to well-known; the list includes species of minnows and killifish, the paddlefish, the Colorado squawfish and two-thirds of all species of North American sturgeon.
Many kinds of game fish are also endangered or threatened, including sunfish, perch, catfish and 34 kinds of trout, but the report said that only 3 percent of all species on the list are threatened by recreational or commercial fishing.
''The situation is more alarming than we expected,'' said Dr. Jack E. Williams, director of the society's endangered species committee. ''There has been a continuing downturn in the status of freshwater fish in North America. What is more alarming is that our report finds very few cases of success.''
Since the Endangered Species Act was adopted in 1973, only four species of fish have recovered enough to be moved from the endangered to the threatened category. None has been removed from the list. In the same period, six species have become extinct and scores more have become endangered or threatened.
Scientists and environmentalists predict that burgeoning human population and development will push many more species to the brink of extinction or over it. ''The rate of extinction will increase,'' said Dr. Williams, who is also fisheries director of the Bureau of Land Management. ''If we cannot reverse this trend, we will see large-scale species losses and large-scale system failures.''
Dr. Peter B. Moyle, a fishery biologist at the University of California at Davis, said the list might be too conservative. ''We have lost a number of species,'' he said, ''but we are in danger of rapidly losing many more not on the list.''
And Maitland Sharp, executive director of the Isaak Walton League, a conservation group, said the study showed that the Endangered Species Act was ''not doing an adequate job protecting these threatened and endangered species.'' He added that Congress and the Federal Fish and Wildlife Service might need to reassess the law.
 
The Death of Habitats
While there is seldom a single factor responsible for a species' decline or extinction, experts agreed that the most pervasive threat is destruction of delicate fish habitats. That destruction assumes many forms: the diversion of water for drinking and irrigation; industrial and agricultural development; sewage and chemical pollution, and the introduction of non-native species.
A new and serious threat is the proliferation of acid rain. Some lakes and streams in the Northeast and Canada have become so acidic that fish can no longer live in them. In 100,000 lakes in Ontario and Quebec, wild stocks of the endangered aurora trout have been eradicated; half the range of the endangered Acadian whitefish of Nova Scotia has been destroyed.
''Across southern Canada there has been a tremendous alteration of fishery habitats,'' said Charles Dauphine, coordinator of endangered species for the Canadian Wildlife Service in Ottawa. ''We are quite alarmed by the scale of the threat.''
But scientists agree that the hardest hit regions are in the arid parts of the Southwestern United States and northern Mexico. The fisheries society says 62 percent of the imperiled species are in five American states - California, Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas - or in the Mexican states of Sonora, Chihuahua and Coahuila.
''Every fish in the Southwest is endangered whether or not it is on the list because of the continued population growth in the region,'' said Phil Pister, a biologist for the California Department of Fish and Game who is secretary of the Desert Fishes Council. ''The situation is going to get nothing but worse.''
The Colorado River once flowed 1,450 miles, from the Rocky Mountains to the Gulf of Mexico. Now not even a trickle often remains at the river's mouth, the water having been captured by large dams and diverted for thirsty crops and human populations.
 
In Special Danger: Mexican Fish
As a result, many fish species have disappeared from the Colorado and its tributaries. And many that survived the loss of habitat have been eliminated by the introduction of non-native fish like the largemouth bass, which prey on native species or compete with them for dwindling food supplies. Compounding the crisis, many species in the arid Southwest live in single small streams or springs, fragile aquatic ecosystems that are easily disrupted.
Of the 113 species added to the American Fisheries Society's list since 1979, 56 are native to Mexico. The society says that many were added because improved techniques have identified more imperiled species, but that many others were included because growing population and pollution have devastated habitats.
''Most of our fish in Mexico are in some sort of danger,'' said Dr. Salvador Contreras-Balderas, a co-author of the report who is a professor at the Autonomous University of Nuevo Leon in Monterrey, Mexico.
''Strong regulations are now beginning to be enforced, but the situation will not get better,'' he said. He cited a lack of experts, ''a lack of economic resources, a lack of ecological conscience.''
In the Yucatan, for example, many people dump trash and sewage into crevices and caverns, unwittingly destroying the fragile subterranean habitat of the dama blanca ciega, a tiny blind species that faces almost certain extinction.
In the United States, scientists say, 30 Federal agencies and a plethora of state bodies have addressed the problem species by species instead of dealing with entire communities of fish and freshwater ecosystems. And many experts agree that efforts to halt the decline of freshwater species will meet resistance from political and economic interests.
But Bob Herbst, executive director of Trout Unlimited, a sport fishing association, said something must be done to halt the decline of even small, obscure and seemingly unimportant species. ''Fish are barometers for the future of humans, like the canary in a coal mine,'' he said. ''Whether a fish species lives indicates the quality of the environment for man.''

GRAPHIC: Drawings; table listing the number of species in each state that are endangered, threatened or of special concern. (source: American Fisheries Society)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT OF 1973

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FISHERIES SOCIETY (83%); AMERICAN FISHERIES SOCIETY (83%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; WATER POLLUTION; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; WATERWAYS AND OTHER BODIES OF WATER FISHES (93%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (92%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); RIVERS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); FISHERIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (89%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); SPORT FISHING (78%); WATER QUALITY (78%); LAKES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); TRENDS (75%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (73%); FINFISH FISHING (70%); 



720 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 11, Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Business Programs Reaching Big Time

BYLINE: By L. R. SHANNON

 BODY:
THIS is a tale of two computer programs that grew up. One started life as shareware, which is try-before-you-buy software; the other was always a commercial product, but a home-grown and home-distributed one. Now both are offered through more traditional sales channels. 
The first program is SolveIt! The Financial Calculator. It carries out 29 financial routines, like telling you how much time and interest will be saved if you speed up the payments on a loan, how much you made on a series of stock trades, and how much you are indeed worth.
These operations all have technical names in the financial world, of course: for the examples just given, accelerated payments, gross profit margin of a series, and net worth statement. Other routines include future value of a series of deposits, straight-line depreciation and economic ordering quantity.
Each routine presents you with a series of questions, and you do little more than fill in the blanks. For the affordable-house-price routine, the program asks the buyer's annual income, cash available, interest rate and terms in years, estimates of tax, insurance and maintenance costs and percentage of income to be devoted to payments. Then, in a flash, the screen shows how expensive a house you can afford, the amount to be financed and what percentage of the house price the available cash represents.
SolveIt! works on an I.B.M.-compatible computer with 384 kilobytes of free memory and two floppy disk drives. A hard drive is desirable, though, and the more memory the better. With sufficient memory, the program can be loaded as a T.S.R. (Terminate and Stay Resident) utility, so it can be called up while you're in the middle of doing something else. The version I tried is designated 3.1b. It is $49.95, plus $2.95 shipping and handling, from Pine Grove Software, 67-38 108th Street, Suite D-1, Forest Hills, N.Y. 11375; telephone (800) 242-9192. New York residents should add $4.12 sales tax. Version 4.0, with improvements, is coming in a few months, with a free upgrade for owners of version 3.1.
The other program was called Tony Stewart's Home Office when it was discussed here in late 1988. It has been licensed to Spinnaker Software and considerably enhanced and speeded up, and it is now One-Person Office, part of that company's handsome Better Working series.
One-Person Office is designed for anyone who has separate clients and projects, with expenses to be tracked, invoices to be mailed, contacts to be organized and reports to be printed. It will even remind you whom to call.
The expense section, for example, has 62 categories: travel, entertainment, repairs and the like. You can use the existing categories, edit them or add your own. You can print out all expenses, or just those for particular jobs or categories or dates.
Like the other programs in the Better Working family, One-Person Office is exceptionally easy to like. Menus and one-letter commands run the various modules and submodules, and if you press the F1 key, help appears on the screen. The program requires a computer running DOS 2.1 or later, 430 kilobytes of available memory and a hard disk with at least 900 kilobytes of space free. It can also be used on a system with two floppy disk drives. Spinnaker Software is at 1 Kendall Square, Cambridge, Mass. 02139; telephone (617) 494-1200. The retail price is $69.95.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: PERIPHERALS

TICKER: SPKR (NASDAQ) (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: SPINNAKER SOFTWARE CORP (61%); ONE-PERSON OFFICE (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: PINE GROVE SOFTWARE; SPINNAKER SOFTWARE

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SALES TAX (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); DEPRECIATION (71%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (69%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (66%); FLOPPY DRIVES (50%); 

PERSON: SHANNON, L R MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 



721 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

MARKETS
 
Some RJR Nabisco debt securities continued to plummet in price, as they did on Friday after Moody's lowered its rating on some RJR debt. Bids on some issues fell by as much as $100 for each $1,000 face amount. [Page D1.] 
 
Stock prices dropped again in sharply slower trading. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 5.85 points, to 2,553.38. [D10.]
 
The dollar fell against major foreign currencies in light trading. Gold prices also slipped. [D18.] Soybean futures rebounded sharply in what analysts said could be the start of a turnaround after a six-week slide. [D18.]
 
COMPANIES
 
A computer that uses pulses of light rather than currents of electricity in performing its calculations was introduced by Bell Laboratories scientists. The current device is crude, but within several years such optical computers could reach speeds 1,000 times faster than the most powerful conventional machines. [A1.]
 
Boeing reported a 55.7 percent decline in earnings for the fourth quarter, when its commercial aircraft operations were disrupted by a strike and its military business continued to show losses. [D1.] Unocal lost $26 million in the fourth quarter, mainly because of large, nonrecurring losses. [D9.]
 
Bank of New England is selling its credit card business to Citicorp for $828 million. [D2.]
 
Apple Computer is bringing a star executive back from Europe to take charge of its U.S. operations. [D5.]
 
Chrysler will extend its rebate program through the end of February. Rebates will not be extended on mini-vans. [D5.]
 
Federated Stores' bankruptcy proceedings are being delayed by the complexity of dealing with such a large number of creditors, the trustee in the case said. [D9.]
 
A 16.53 percent stake in National Intergroup has been acquired by Centaur Partners of New York. [D5.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Legislation on phone privacy was introduced in the Senate. The bill is aimed at a new call-screening service that displays the phone number of a caller. The legislation would give callers the opportunity to block the display by dialing a special code. [D1.]
 
Makers of machine tools have been looking overseas for markets, particularly to Europe, as they struggle with a slump in the auto industry and competition from the Japanese. [D1.]
 
A revised plan for cutting capital gains taxes and tax breaks for a new type of savings account were included in the President's budget proposal. [A20.]
 
Personal incomes grew at an annual rate of 0.5 percent in December, and spending grew at twice that rate. [D8.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Dramatic changes are convulsing Argentina. The fate of President Carlos Saul Menem's play to build overnight a free-market economy hangs in the balance. Economic Analysis. [D1.]
 
Victims of the Bhopal gas leak still wait to receive payment from the settlement that Union Carbide and the Indian Government reached a year ago. [A9.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Corporate America is apparently pulling back from stock purchases after a decade of being among the biggest buyers on Wall Street. Market Place: Floyd Norris. [D1.]
 
The pharmaceutical industry is fighting growing pressure to reduce the prices of prescription drugs used by low-income Americans in the Medicaid programs. Business and Health. [D2.]
 
Some of the Super Bowl broadcast's most gripping moments were public-service spots that showed CBS Sports broadcasters reporting from the frontlines of the war on drugs. Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (59%); C (BMV) (59%); 8710 (TSE) (59%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); M (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (59%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (59%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (59%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (58%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (59%); KRAFT NABISCO (58%); BOEING CO (56%); BELL LABORATORIES (56%); BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (55%); MACY'S INC (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); LEGISLATION (85%); TAX LAW (84%); FOOD INDUSTRY (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); FUTURES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); GOLD MARKETS (74%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (73%); INCOME TAX (72%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (71%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); TAX RELIEF (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (67%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (60%); SALES REBATES (58%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (50%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (81%); 



722 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1824 words

HEADLINE: Argentina's Unlikely Disciplinarian

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
While all eyes are focused on economic and political events in Eastern Europe, dramatic changes are also convulsing Argentina. The fate of President Carlos Saul Menem's bold play to build overnight a modern free-market economy hangs in the balance - and perhaps with it, the fate of Argentina's seven-year-old experiment in democracy.
After months of political honeymoon, during which Mr. Menem outlined his plans for revivifying the economy and monthly inflation returned to single digits, prices again started to rise and the fragile social contract among labor, business and government again began to unravel.
The President responded by declaring war on financial speculation. And in the view of many analysts, the gambit has worked: his Jan. 3 freeze on bank savings deflated pressures for higher prices and bound the fortunes of Argentina's skittish middle class to the success of the economic reform program. 
 
An Attempt to Buy Time
But Mario del Carril, a former Argentine diplomat who is now at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, argues that the move does not solve the underlying problem. It only ''buys time'' - time for Mr. Menem to prove that he can break the power of entrenched interests. Those interests have presided over the long decline of an economy that at the turn of the century had a per capita income equal to the United States'.
The purchase, moreover, may prove politically expensive. As Eduardo Amadeo, head of the Provincial Bank of Buenos Aires, points out, ''President Menem has made powerful new enemies,'' just when he can least afford to.
''Any sign of irresolve,'' said a well-informed official at an international lending agency, ''is likely to tip the economy into hyperinflation.''
When Mr. Menem ran for president last spring, he offered no hint that he was prepared to play economic disciplinarian to a nation that has never been able to live within its means. As the flamboyant governor of La Rioja, Argentina's poorest province, he had invented thousands of jobs for supporters and even printed his own money when the provincial treasury ran out. And as heir to the Peronist coalition, he was politically indebted to militant trade unions and inefficient industries accustomed to passing high labor costs on to consumers.
But once in office, President Menem responded to the inflationary crisis with a program calculated to evoke the enthusiasm of the coolest-eyed free-market technocrat. He appointed as economy minister a conservative executive from Argentina's largest multinational corporation. He demanded wage restraint. He endorsed initiatives to sell off bloated, unprofitable Government enterprises, to slash ''development'' subsidies to politically connected businesses, to broaden the tax base and to encourage efficient foreign producers to compete in Argentina's industrial markets.
Inflation fell from almost 200 percent in July to just 6 percent in October on the strength of wage-price guidelines that Mr. Menem bullied business and labor into accepting. That, in turn, narrowed the Government budget deficit, which had ballooned in previous months as expenses raced ahead of tax collections.
The list of import items protected from foreign competition was cut to just 100, from 800. Ambitious plans were drafted to sell off railroads, television networks, the telephone monopoly, the national oil company and the national airline. Public utilities' prices were raised to reduce losses and public-enterprise subsidies were scheduled for elimination by 1991.
A bill extending the national sales tax to most products was submitted to Congress. The International Monetary Fund, which had turned its back on President Menem's predecessor, Raul Alfonsin, agreed to provide a $1.4 billion line of credit to stabilize the exchange rate.
 
'Economy on a Knife Edge'
But as Eduardo Amadeo points out, ''the inflationary memory of Argentines kept the economy on a knife edge.'' Those looking for glints of the blade began to spot them.
William Cline, an economist at the Institute for International Economics in Washington, believes the Menem administration first stumbled in October, when it failed to oppose a 70 percent wage increase over six months, negotiated by big labor and big business. The perception of weakness was compounded by delays in designing a credible means for collecting the new sales tax.
The public's fear of getting stuck with depreciated currency proved self-fulfilling, as anxious Argentines rushed to exchange Argentine australs for dollars. Inflation, a mere 7 percent in November, exploded to 40 percent in December when the Government was forced to devalue the austral to conserve its rapidly depleting stash of foreign exchange. And the Dec. 15 replacement of the conservative Economy Minister, Nestor Rapanelli, with Antonio Erman Gonzalez, a political crony of Mr. Menem, was widely seen as a sign that the President was retreating to the Peronist bunkers.
But the Menem administration again confounded the pundits. Mr. Erman Gonzalez reaffirmed the commitment to free markets by allowing the austral to float freely and removing vestiges of price controls.
 
A Radical Dollar Plan
Mr. Menem's advisers briefly considered a plan to ''dollarize'' the economy, a tactic that would have eliminated the Government's discretion to print money by making the United States dollar the legal currency of Argentina. Roughly four trillion australs were in circulation, while foreign currency in the Treasury totaled only $1 billion. Thus, speculators reasoned, the Government would buy back the australs at a rate of 4,000 to the dollar.
Anticipating the announcement, Argentines rushed to trade australs for dollars and drove the exchange rate, which had been about 1,000 australs to the dollar before Christmas, to 3,800 by New Year's weekend. Merchants jacked up prices accordingly.
Once again it was the Government's turn to surprise. Mr. Menem's breathtakingly radical response, reportedly devised by Foreign Minister Domingo Cavallo, a Harvard-trained economist, was to disable the engine of currency speculation.
Argentines, rich and not so rich, had grown accustomed to keeping most of their australs in interest-bearing seven-day savings certificates at banks. The banks, in turn, had lent the money to the Treasury to finance the national debt.
 
Converted Savings to Bonds
On Jan. 3, the Menem administration short-circuited the arrangement, converting all but a million australs of each depositor's savings into 10-year Government bonds with interest and principal guaranteed in dollars. The bonds can be used at face value to pay taxes. Yet because of widespread skepticism about the Government's ability to honor the dollar guarantee, they trade at less than half the face value on the free market. The conversion thus amounted to confiscation of financial assets worth close to $2 billion.
The immediate effect of the conversion was to reduce spending power. ''Money in people's pockets,'' Mr. Amadeo estimated, ''is just 30 percent of what it was before.'' That eliminates the pressure on prices -indeed, supermarket tabs fell by half or more in the week after the announcement. And it makes it almost impossible for Argentines to shift assets into other currencies. Perhaps most important, the freeze accomplished its goals without exacting sacrifice from those in greatest need. ''Poor laborers,'' Mr. del Carril noted, ''cannot afford bank C.D.'s.''
Less noticed, but of great significance, the freeze relieved the Government of a chronic burden on the budget, Mr. Cline said. While the internal national debt is relatively small, the Government had often paid as much as 200 percent a month in interest -far more than the inflation rate.
Now most of the money supply is locked in long-term bonds indexed to dollars, with interest payable at the international lending rate of about 8 percent a year. ''If they can institute the promised tax reform,'' said Mr. Cline, of the Institute for International Economics, ''the budget will not be far from balanced.''
But Mr. Menem and his advisers are hardly home free. It is one thing to stop an economy from veering out of control. It is quite another to coax shellshocked enterprises to return to the routines of buying and selling, of making contracts to deliver supplies at prices set months in advance. And the freeze has compounded the continuing uncertainties of operating in an economy that has been on the edge of hyperinflation for years.
No one really knows, for example, whether the economy can adjust smoothly to greatly diminished financial liquidity. Businesses must be able to borrow at less than extortionate rates to operate normally; consumers need cash in their pockets to make routine purchases. A reduction in money supply of comparable magnitude plunged the American economy into the Great Depression.
Argentines today are far more practiced at adapting to financial shocks than Americans were in the 1930's. Businesses and individuals do hold tens of billions in American dollars, which can legally be used as a substitute for scarce australs. Still, Argentines are unlikely to part easily with the one stable financial asset in their unstable world.
Once burned, Argentines will not voluntarily lend the Government more australs. ''The internal debt market is dead,'' says Martin Redrado, vice president of the International Merchant Bank in New York.
 
New Money or Borrowed Money
That limits the Government's options for covering future deficits to printing money or borrowing from abroad. The printing press option is really no option at all, since it would probably set off financial panic.
Reportedly, Mr. Menem's economists have already sounded out the Bush Administration for a loan. The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank are more plausible candidates to act as lenders of last resort, if only because they do not wish to be the messengers of doom for another democratically elected Argentine Government. But they will have to be convinced that Mr. Menem can quickly balance the budget.
That leaves President Menem with the task of putting Argentines on a crash fiscal diet, while simultaneously moving forward with the reforms needed to make private enterprise competitive. Nothing in Argentina's history suggests that the nation is up to the challenge.
But as one Argentine businessman points out, nothing in the country's history would have indicated Mr. Menem's transformation from Peronist good old boy to resourceful economic pragmatist.
The best analogy, this businessman suggests, is President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union. Both are skillful politicians, unencumbered by ideology, who are willing to make unorthodox alliances. Each faces daunting economic problems armed one great weapon: the widespread sense that failure would be a disaster for almost everyone.

GRAPHIC: photo: After Argentina's Government converted a portion of many individuals' savings into government bonds early this month, depositors waited outside a Buenos Aires bank to withdraw what they could. The conversion has essentially amounted to a confiscation of assets. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Economic Analysis

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (96%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARGENTINA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS ACCOUNTS; CURRENCY; PRICES ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INFLATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); FOREIGN LENDING (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; MENEM, CARLOS SAUL (PRES) CARLOS SAUL MENEM (93%); 



723 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Overseas Tool Sales Are Pushed

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
Troubled by the slump in the auto industry and competition from the Japanese, makers of machine tools have been looking to new businesses and markets overseas, particularly in Western and Eastern Europe.
Analysts and executives say it is too early to tell how successful the manufacturers have been, and some of them say the efforts will never be able to offset the downturn in automotive orders. But there have been notable accomplishments, they say.
Litton Industries' machinery unit, for example, has been winning contracts with manufacturers in Europe and has a nearly $200 million backlog for machine tools used in making engines, transmissions and brake systems for Ford Motor in Britain. Cincinnati Milacron Inc. has been seeking business from the aerospace industry. And Giddings & Lewis Inc. has become more aggressive in its sales efforts overseas, looking to drum up business in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. 
 
Growth Abroad Is Stronger
''Demand for machine tools is growing at a quicker pace in Western Europe, Japan and in newly developed economies than in the United States,'' said John F. Townsend, vice president of planning and business development for Giddings & Lewis. ''And we hope to take advantage of that.''
The Association for Manufacturing Technology reported yesterday that new orders for machine tool products dropped 22 percent last year, to $2.81 billion. And several analysts estimate that new orders will fall another 14 percent, to about $2.4 billion, this year. That would be down significantly from the peak of $3.6 billion in 1988, but much better than the levels in 1986 and 1987, when orders sagged to around $2.1 billion.
Power-driven machine tools cut or shape metal parts used in a wide array of products, from appliances and vehicles to aircraft and construction materials. The strength in machine-tool orders generally reflects strength in industrial production.
 
A Large Backlog
The immediate impact of smaller orders from the automobile industry is negligible because machine-tool makers are still working at close to capacity to fill a fattened backlog. Indeed, shipments of machine tools were up 33 percent last year, an indication that production has been humming. Order backlogs at the end of the year totaled $1.8 billion, That figure is up sharply from the $1.2 billion at the beginning of 1988.
Auto makers, which have historically accounted for about a third of the nation's machine-tool orders, have responded to slumping sales by slowing production and deferring some capital spending.
As a result, makers of machine tools are now looking more to other industries, particularly aerospace, as well as abroad, particularly to Western Europe, where demand for machinery has been stronger recently.
For example, Giddings & Lewis, a producer of high-precision machine tools based in Fond du Lac, Wis., sold more than $1.5 million worth of boring mills and drill point grinders to the Soviet Union last year. ''Things are opening up in Eastern Europe and we hope to take advantage of that,'' said John F. Townsend, vice president of the company's planning and business development.
He said Giddings & Lewis's overseas sales climbed 15 percent last year. ''We feel we've had a breakthrough,'' he said.
 
Aerospace Business Climbs
Cincinnati Milacron, the nation's third-largest machine tool maker, has been looking to the aerospace industry to offset automotive orders, which typically account for 20 percent of its business.
''Our aerospace orders are up to 30 percent of our business from 20 percent last year,'' said Daniel J. Meyer, the president. ''We can see a continuing good demand for machine tools in the aerospace sector, in both the commercial and defense side.''
But many analysts are cautious. ''Exports are still only a small part of the market, maybe about 5 percent,'' said Walter F. Carter, vice president of DRI/McGraw Hill. ''So the export efforts will help, but only partially.''
 
Japanese Moving In
Another problem facing American tool makers is the increased number of Japanese machine-tool companies with operations in this country. Figures from the Japan Economic Institute indicate that the number has grown to 36, from 17 before 1987. The Association for Manufacturing Technology said it had no figures on the market penetration of Japanese tool makers in the United States. But analysts say the impact has been noticeable.
''The Japanese machine tool companies are making headway here,'' said James J. Paper, an analyst at Kirkpatrick, Pettis, Smith, Polian of Omaha. ''They are here to serve the Japanese auto companies that have operations in the United States and there is a great deal of loyalty on the part of Japanese auto companies toward Japanese machine tool companies.''
Mr. Meyer and other American machine tool executives hope that big backlogs will keep them busy and that many of the stalled spending programs in the auto industry will be started again within months. They also hope that new Government emissions standards will be detailed by this summer, prompting auto manufacturers to begin ordering tools to make new engines.
 
Concern About Japan
''We expect the current market conditions to have very little impact on our business,'' said James A. Egbert, president of the Cross Company, a unit of the Cross & Trecker Corporation, in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
Mr. Egbert said his company expects the downturn to be short, adding that he is optimistic about the prospects for the long term. Still, he said, he is concerned about the American auto makers' loss of market share to Japanese producers.
Some analysts consider attitudes like Mr. Egbert's overly optimistic. ''I know that the general expectation is that the automotive industry will probably resume new orders by the second half of the year,'' said Mr. Carter of DRI/McGraw Hill. ''But automobile companies change their plans very abruptly.''
Mr. Carter suggested that machine tool companies would be better off ''improving quality and marketing heavily elsewhere and in other industries.''
But moves into other industries are easier said than done, particularly for companies without a substantial foothold in those industries. ''You're not going to be a reliable supplier to the aerospace industry unless you are a regular supplier to the aerospace industry,'' said E. Kidder Meade, vice president for Litton Industrial Automation.
Indeed, machine tool makers, whose memories of the depressed conditions in the early 1980's are still vivid, say the best insurance against a downturn in the industry is to keep their operations as lean as possible. Despite Cross & Trecker's optimism, the company's chief executive, Norman J. Ryker, plans to lower costs by 5 percent this year.
''These cycles are intrinsic in the nature of the business we're in,'' Mr. Meade said. ''If you're going to survive in this business, you can do a lot of things. But you basically have to have flexibility in your production. You have to control costs and operate as lean an operation as possible.''

GRAPHIC: graph of machine tool orders from '84 to '90 (Source: Assoc. for Manufacturing Technology) (pg. D13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3541 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL CUTTING TYPES (83%); NAICS333511 INDUSTRIAL MOLD MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS324191 PETROLEUM LUBRICATING OIL & GREASE MANUFACTURING (70%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); JAPAN (78%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (56%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (90%); GIDDINGS & LEWIS MACHINE TOOLS LLC (83%); MI 2009 INC (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; EUROPE

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET MACHINE TOOLS (91%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (68%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (68%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P



724 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
A Corporate Pullback That's Rattling Stocks

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Corporate America, one of the biggest buyers of shares during the boom years of the 1980's on Wall Street, is apparently pulling back, contributing to the stock market's recent weakness.
American companies spent hundreds of billions of dollars in recent years buying other corporations and buying their own stock. But now, with the pace of corporate takeovers slowing and company profits declining, there are increasing signs that corporations will no longer purchase shares with abandon.
This apparent retreat has worried Wall Street and has played a big role in the recent stock market fall. With the Dow Jones industrial average off 5.85 points yesterday, to 2,553.38, it is now down 9 percent from the peak of 2,810.15 it reached on Jan. 2. 
''The support that corporations provided in the past is no longer there,'' said Carmine Grigoli, chief portfolio strategist for First Boston.
 
Concern Is Understandable
The concern on Wall Street is understandable. Last year, for example, American corporations were the main force behind the 27 percent rise in share prices, purchasing over $100 billion worth of shares more than they sold, Goldman, Sachs estimates. By contrast, American financial institutions and individual investors sold more shares than they bought.
Rising interest rates around the world, brought on by inflation fears in West Germany and Japan, have also been an important cause of the market's weakness. Those rates stabilized in recent days, helping to stem the decline on Wall Street at least temporarily.
Other forces cited by analysts as contributing to the slippage include concerns about higher oil prices and falling corporate profits as the economy slows.
 
Buyers Must Be Willing
But in the end, share prices rise when buyers are willing to buy, and decline when they are not. And the prospect of corporations pulling back as a major buying force could well hurt prices considerably.
Yet it could also help to slow, or perhaps reverse, the trend toward an ever-growing level of debt for American companies, because much of the corporate share-buying was financed with borrowed money. A lightened debt burden would give American companies a more sturdy financial foundation, making them better able to compete with foreign companies and more likely to survive a recession.
For generations, it was taken for granted that corporations would normally be sellers of stock, as they issued shares to finance expansion and to pay for takeovers. But as debt-financed takeovers became much more common during the 1980's, many companies began to buy their own shares as an act of defense, hoping that by keeping share prices relatively high they would discourage raiders.
In 1988, according to Federal Reserve figures, all corporations bought $118 billion more in stock than they issued. For the first nine months of last year, the annual rate was about $129 billion. But Mr. Grigoli said he believed that slowed in the final quarter, for which Government figures are not yet available. The pace of announced mergers, he estimated, was down 35 percent in the October-December period from the pace early in the year.
In 1990, Mr. Grigoli forecasts, American corporations will be net buyers of only about $50 billion worth of shares, less than half last year's level.
With the ''junk bond'' market all but closed to new issuers, many companies have less to fear from raiders, so they need not be eager to buy their own shares to increase their stock price. ''There will be less pressure on corporate managers to maximize shareholder value,'' said Leon G. Cooperman, chief executive of the asset management division at Goldman, Sachs.
In addition, corporate profits have been declining since early last year, according to Commerce Department figures, reducing the available cash companies have on hand for buying their shares or for other purposes.
It is not easy to trace corporate buybacks of shares. Some companies do not announce purchases, except after long delays, and some announce plans for purchases but do not follow through. But in January, Laszlo Birinyi, head of a market analysis firm that bears his name, said, ''There have been very few announcements.''
The trend toward corporate repurchases of shares began in the 1970's, when pioneers like Teledyne Inc. made major buybacks despite criticism that such purchases left the companies financially weaker and amounted to an admission by a management that it had no better investment available to it.
But by the mid-1980's, those repurchases were much more fashionable. The culmination may have come last fall, when the International Business Machines Corporation announced two repurchase plans, totaling $5 billion, and the General Electric Company said it would buy back $10 billion worth of shares over five years.
Some analysts say companies will keep buying shares even if the volume is reduced. ''There are still strategic takeovers,'' noted John D. Connolly, chairman of the investment policy committee at Dean Witter Reynolds, pointing to the pending attempt by Georgia-Pacific to acquire Great Northern Nekoosa. He added that ''the market for new issues of corporate equity securities is not the best'' and concluded, ''We will see less supply of stock.'' Mr. Connolly said the recent retreat of stock prices has been overdone and created a buying opportunity.
But there are signs that corporate America, which is more heavily indebted now than after any other economic expansion, may be forced to return to issuing shares even if the market is not receptive. Companies like Shearson Lehman Hutton and First Interstate Banks are now trying to sell stock because they need the extra capital.
Over all, according to calculations by Merrill Lynch, interest payments ate up 25.2 percent of corporate cash flow in the third quarter of last year, a record level. Until last year, the record was 22.7 percent, set in the third quarter of 1974, when cash flow had been severely reduced by a recession. Just how high the figure would go in a new recession is not clear, but the fact that corporate balance sheets are so laden with debt is likely to restrain stock buybacks.
No one knows the extent to which recent share repurchases have been motivated by fear of raiders, as opposed to a genuine management belief that the shares were a good investment. But it is clear that many raiders who could have obtained financing to go after a company six months ago could not raise the cash to do so now. That motivation is clearly reduced.
In the long run, there is no need for companies to buy shares to have a bull market. Both individuals and institutional investors now have a smaller proportion of their assets in stocks than they did two decades ago. If they decide to return to those levels, that could more than offset the reduction of demand from corporations to buy stocks. But such a change is not likely to happen quickly.

GRAPHIC: graphs of amount by which common stock purchased by all corporations exceeded the amount corporations issued each year from '82 to '89; interest payments as a percent of cash flow for non-financial corporations from '82 to '89 (Sources: Fed. Reserve Board, First Boston Corp.; Dept. of Commerce and Merrill Lynch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS PRICE INCREASES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); NEW ISSUES (78%); BONDS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); TRENDS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); STATISTICS (75%); INFLATION (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD CARMINE GRIGOLI (66%); 



725 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Business and Health;
Cutting the Cost Of Medicaid Drugs

BYLINE: By Milt Freudenheim

 BODY:
THE pharmaceutical industry is fighting growing pressure to reduce the prices of prescription drugs used by low-income Americans in the financially pressed Federal-state Medicaid programs. Medicaid officials said spending on prescription drugs rose last year by 12 percent, to $3.87 billion, from $3.45 billion in 1988.
Medicaid officials in 37 states are discussing or preparing measures that would try to force the companies to negotiate on prices for patent-protected drugs, a recent survey by the Senate Aging Committee found. In most cases, the manufacturers have successfully resisted, even persuading legislatures in a number of states to outlaw efforts by Medicare officials to gain negotiating leverage by approving some drugs and rejecting others. 
Some states have tried to establish lists of Medicaid-approved drugs known as formularies, like the lists used by most university teaching hospitals and many health maintenance organizations. Committees of doctors and pharmacists would decide which drugs produce similar effects in most patients. The drugs would then be put out for bid, and only the least expensive in each therapeutic group would be approved.
In Kansas, for example, Medicaid pays for only one brand of a potassium supplement, rejecting a dozen other products commonly prescribed for heart patients taking diuretics. Medicaid officials said that after requesting bids from manufacturers, the program chose K-Norm, made by the Fisons Corporation. The program pays about $7 per hundred, compared with at least $10 before.
The Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, a trade group, is strongly opposed. The industry says individual reactions to drugs vary, so all medications should remain available to everyone. Bruce J. Brennan, the association's general counsel and senior vice president, argued that even the most expensive drugs save money in the end by reducing spending for doctors and hospitals. Restricting the choice of drugs, he said, would mean ''second-class medicine for Medicaid patients.''
The drug companies have won legislative battles in recent years blocking restrictions in Utah, South Carolina and Louisiana. Two Louisiana State University economists, William J. Moore and Robert J. Newman, said a survey of 47 states showed that Medicare spending was up to 15 percent higher in states that had restrictive formularies.
But RaeDell Ashley, a Medicaid program director in Utah, said spending on prescription drugs in her state ''escalated right off the charts'' when Utah eliminated its restricted list in 1985. She said Medicaid spending on drugs soared from $6 million in 1984 to $15 million last year. There was ''no change in hospital and physician costs'' that could be attributed to the change in drug policy, she said.
The pharmaceutical industry is backing bills to ban Medicaid drug restrictions in Tennessee, Kansas, Missouri and Colorado.
Last week, the struggle shifted to Congress. Senator David Pryor, the Arkansas Democrat who heads the Aging Committee, said drugs that cost less are often as effective as costlier products.
''While new drug prices are pegged an average of 49 percent above the price of drugs they replace,'' he said, ''the Food and Drug Administration finds that 60 to 80 percent of them offer little or no therapeutic advantage.'' In a reply to the committee, the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association said there was no agreement among doctors and pharmacists about the interchangeability of some drugs. ''Leading physicians and pharmacists reject this notion because of individual differences among patients,'' the association said.
Senator Pryor said he would introduce a bill to establish a Federal drug ''formulary'' to be used by state buying groups in negotiating drug prices with manufacturers. To placate doctors who oppose restrictions that could keep them from picking a drug that a particular patient might need, Senator Pryor's bill would permit them to prescribe drugs not listed in the formulary. Doctors would do so by writing ''medically necessary'' on prescriptions.
Dr. Ray W. Gifford, a member of the American Medical Association board of trustees, said he would not object if the procedure for exceptions was simple and did not ''make the physician jump through hoops.'' The Cleveland Clinic, where he is a specialist in hypertension, has a formulary, he said, but ''it doesn't restrict us very much.''
The Pryor proposal revives a plan for a Federal drug formulary that was part of the ill-fated law that would have added payments for drugs to the Medicare program for the elderly and disabled and expanded coverage for catastrophic illnesses. The law was repealed last year when many elderly Americans objected to being taxed to pay for it.
Some members of Congress complained then that they had been misled by estimates understating the costs of adding a drug benefit to Medicare. By calling attention to drug prices, which have been outrunning overall inflation for a number of years, the Medicare battle may have improved the prospects for restricting drugs in Medicaid.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS AND HEALTH (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FISONS CORP (67%); PHARMACEUTICAL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES; MEDICAID (TITLE XIX OF FED MEDICARE LEGISLATION); MEDICARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION MEDICAID (93%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (92%); DRUG PRICES (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); HOSPITALS (88%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); LAWYERS (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); DRUG POLICY (58%); PATENTS (56%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (54%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT; PRYOR, DAVID (SEN) JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 



726 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Income Up For Month And Year

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29

 BODY:
The personal income of Americans grew at a modest annual rate of five-tenths of 1 percent in December and spending grew at twice that rate, the Commerce Department said today.
For the year, personal incomes rose by 9 percent after a 7.6 percent increase in 1988. It was the largest annual increase since 1984, when incomes went up by 9.5 percent. 
The December increase in income was the smallest since a two-tenths of 1 percent rate rise in August. Economists said today's report was encouraging amid widespread concern about a slowing economy.
 
October-November Gains
Personal income rose by nine-tenths of 1 percent each in October and November.
''I don't think we're going to see consumers folding up, and that's going to keep us out of recession,'' said Marin Mauro, a senior economist with Merrill Lynch & Company in New York.
Personal savings declined in December, to 5.6 percent of disposable income, from 6.2 percent in November.
The low rate of savings has been a longstanding worry for economists, because it forces the Federal Government to look abroad for money to cover the Federal deficit.
Spending by consumers accounts for about two-thirds of total economic output. In December, the rate of increase rose to 1 percent, from three-tenths of 1 percent in each of the two previous months. It was the fastest monthly rate of increase since August.
 
Harsh Winter Weather
Mr. Mauro said extreme winter weather in December played a role by raising fuel purchases and prices. Spending for home heating, including for fuel oil, electricity and natural gas, jumped by $15 billion, after a $3 billion increase in November.
But spending on durable goods, items expected to last three years or more, also rose in December, after falling in November, a sign of economic strength.
Incentives offered by automobile companies late last year helped revive sales modestly, Mr. Mauro said. Durables purchases increased in December by $6.7 billion, after falling by $2.8 billion in November.
On Friday, the Commerce Department said the nation's gross national product, or total output of goods and services, expanded only at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of five-tenths of 1 percent in the final three months of last year, partly because of weaker consumer spending in the quarter.
The Bush Administration is forecasting continued moderate economic growth. Most private forecasters expect the United States to avoid recession but anticipate a weak first half of this year.
Personal incomes last month were helped by a return to work following settlement of strikes at the Boeing Company, the Seattle-based aircraft maker, and in the telephone industry, the department said.

GRAPHIC: graph of personal income from 7/88 to 12/89 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (80%); BAB (BRU) (80%); BA (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (83%); BOEING CO (80%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: INCOME; UNITED STATES ECONOMY PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); RECESSION (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (75%); NATURAL GAS (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); AIRCRAFT MFG (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



727 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 18, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Off in Light Trading After Drop in Stock Prices

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell against major foreign currencies in light trading yesterday in reaction to a drop in stock prices.
Gold prices also slipped. At the Commodity Exchange in New York, an ounce of gold fell $1, to $419.10. The Republic National Bank later quoted a bid of $418.20 an ounce, down $1.80 from Friday. 
Dealers said the dollar began trading higher in New York after it lost strength overnight on overseas markets, where the West German mark rose against the dollar in reaction to an announcement of earlier elections in East Germany and an easing of tension in Soviet Azerbaijan.
But then stock prices fell on Wall Street, sending the dollar lower.
Recent economic reports that indicate the American economy is sluggish also worked against the dollar, said Robert Hatcher, a dealer with Barclays Bank P.L.C.
''I think it is resurrecting the fear within the dealer community of possible easing down the road,'' he said, referring to the possibility of the Federal Reserve's acting on interest rates. Lower interest rates would make the dollar less attractive to overseas investors.
The Government reported yesterday that consumer spending in 1989 posted its largest increase in three years and personal incomes rose 9 percent last year, but the reports had little effect on the dollar, traders said.
Charles A. Spence, a vice president at First Interstate Bank in Los Angeles, said currency dealers were awaiting the release tomorrow of the Commerce Department's leading indicators for December, which should give further evidence on the direction of the economy.
''They're looking for slightly positive numbers,'' he said.
Earlier, dealers overseas said a few large orders had an exaggerated impact on the dollar because volume was thin with Hong Kong and Singapore closed for the Lunar New Year holiday.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell 0.75 yen, to 143.22 yen. Later, in London, it was quoted at 143.15 yen. In New York, the dollar closed lower still, at 142.98 yen, but up from Friday's close of 142.80 yen.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.6775, from $1.6571 late Friday. In New York, it strengthened further to $1.6810, up from $1.6635 late Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday rates, included: 1.6770 West German marks, down from 1.6865; 1.4815 Swiss francs, down from 1.4900; 5.6950 French francs, down from 5.7290; 1,248.00 Italian lire, down from 1,254.50, and 1.1871 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1966.
Gold dipped in London to $418.50 an ounce, from $418.75 bid late Friday. In Zurich, gold finished at $418.50, unchanged from late Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (84%); BARC (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (84%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); FIRST INTERSTATE BANK OF COMMERCE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (68%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (62%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (51%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



728 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Careers;
Management School Shifts With Times

BYLINE: By Elizabeth M. Fowler

 BODY:
FEW graduate schools of business can keep current with world economic and political trends just by analyzing their student rosters, but the Management Education Institute Inc. in Cambridge, Mass., can do just that. The reason: more than 95 percent of its students come from abroad to study for a master of science degree in management, which is earned over 11 months.
Dr. Kenneth L. Hoadley, the dean of M.E.I., which celebrated its 25th anniversary several months ago, commented last week, ''Originally, most students were civil servants from West Africa, financed by their home government or by agencies like the World Bank, United Nations and Usaid,'' the United States Agency for International Development.
With more limited funds available to African governments, the number of Africans attending has dropped to 6 percent of the class of 1990, from 57 percent of the class of 1980. Today, Asians and Latin Americans dominate, with 45 percent from Asia, mostly Japanese, compared with 13 percent a decade ago, and 32 percent from Latin America, compared with 4 percent 10 years ago. 
The change reflects many students coming from regions where private business is growing rapidly. Nowadays, private employers pay tuition for 36 percent of the students, compared with 15 percent a decade ago, while 47 percent of the students pay their own way, compared with only 19 percent in 1980, an indication that some own or want to own businesses.
''Even though we continue to enroll a similar number of Usaid-sponsored participants as we did a decade ago, they are more likely to work in the private sector than in government service,'' Liz A. Reisberg, a school spokeswoman, explained.
About 13 percent of the current class of 53 students are women, compared with 8 percent of the 1980 class of 47 students. The roster also reflects a political change: In the 1970's, the Iranian Government sent students, including women. Now, no Iranian students study at the school.
The curriculum has changed to meet the new needs of students. Electives like agribusiness and public administration that had been popular now find less favor than courses with titles like management technology, managing for quality, and starting and managing a small business.
Besides mirroring economic and political changes, M.E.I. has another unusual claim to fame: It is the only American graduate school of business operated by a private company, the worldwide management consulting firm of Arthur D. Little. Like most leading educational centers in Massachusetts, it is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges. The faculty includes professors from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Tufts and Northeastern Universities and Babson College, as well as experts from Little, assuring a combination of the academic and the pragmatic.
Students, 31 years old on average, must have undergraduate degrees. They take core courses typical of an master in business administration program, like accounting, financial management and economics, and then choose from electives. Students also take field trips that require written analyses. This year, outings will focus on two industries, agribusiness and tourism. As an example, students on the agribusiness tour will visit a supermarket, a food processor, a large commercial farm, a seed research organization and the Chicago Board of Trade for an overview of the food industry.
Tuition is $17,250, plus $1,000 for books, materials and field trips, plus whatever it costs for rent and food. But a typical two-year graduate business school program probably would cost twice as much. In all, the school has 1,200 alumni worldwide. Another 1,200 have taken its executive education programs.
Dr. Hoadley, 43 years old and dean for almost four years, graduated from Colby College, in Waterville, Me. He spent his junior year in Mexico. After Colby came three years in the Peace Corps in Latin America, working in an agrarian program. ''While in Colombia, I realized management was the missing factor in my education,'' he said.
That led him back to New England, where he obtained an M.B.A. degree and a doctorate from the Harvard Business School. Before the dean's job, he served as an associate dean and administrator at a business school in Costa Rica. He and his wife, who is Nicaraguan, speak Spanish at home to make sure their children stay bilingual. And bilingualism is a must for M.E.I. students, since teaching is in English. The students come from 25 countries.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (61%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available BUSINESS EDUCATION (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MANAGER TRAINING (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); TRENDS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); ACCREDITATION (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); CORE CURRICULUM (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); 

PERSON: KENNETH L HOADLEY (55%); 



729 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: RECESSION CHANCES HAVE DIMINISHED, GREENSPAN INSISTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30

 BODY:
The chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Alan Greenspan, told Congress today that the chance of an imminent recession has diminished markedly since spring and that the nation's current slow growth is likely to prove only a ''temporary hesitation.''
Mr. Greenspan's remarks appeared to dampen hopes that the Federal Reserve would soon move to cut interest rates further.
The Federal Reserve chairman made his comments to the Joint Economic Committee of Congress in the first of several appearances in the next few weeks on Capitol Hill to discuss the economic outlook and the central bank's monetary strategy.
 
Consistent With Earlier Views
His remarks were consistent with the reported views earlier this month of two fellow Federal Reserve governors, who suggested that with inflation running at about 4.5 percent, the economy was not weak enough to warrant fresh infusions of credit to head off a possible recession. Additional credit could ease interest rates but would risk making inflation worse. The Fed has taken several steps since last spring to lower interest rates in an effort to support the economy. 
Surprisingly for a Fed chairman, Mr. Greenspan attached specific figures to the prospects for additional gains by an economy that has now entered its eighth year of uninterrupted expansion. Federal Reserve chiefs, including Mr. Greenspan, tend to speak in Delphic generalities because of the way markets hang on each utterance, and they like to keep their options open.
 
Wouldn't 'Bet the Ranch'
He said today that by one gauge the chances of recession in the next six months are about 20 percent, down from 30 percent last spring, and that by another gauge the chances have fallen to about 10 percent.
Both of these probabilities, Mr. Greenspan observed, ''are much smaller than those occurring at the beginning of each of the four recessions'' of the last 20 years, the last of which was in 1981 and 1982.
''I wouldn't want to bet the ranch on such statistical measures,'' Mr. Greenspan added in a statement prepared for the committee. ''But such imbalances and dislocations as we see in the economy today probably do not suggest anything more than a temporary hesitation in the continuing expansion.''
When asked directly why interest rates remain relatively high, Mr. Greenspan said this was mainly because long-term inflation expectations remain high. This, he said, affects rates whether or not they are adjusted for inflation.
On Friday, the Commerce Department reported that the gross national product grew by a meager five-tenths of 1 percent in the fourth quarter of 1989, the weakest performance since a 1.8 percent decline in output three and a half years ago. This was a sluggish rate even allowing for the strike at the Boeing Company and exceptionally harsh December weather.
Mr. Greenspan said the Federal Reserve's estimate of a 20 percent possibility of a recession was derived from the Commerce Department's index of leading indicators, a monthly tabulation of 11 economic and financial variables. Federal Reserve statisticians compared recent movements with the patterns just before and during recessions and then expressed their findings in terms of probability.
The leading index, which declined three-tenths of 1 percent in October, rose one-tenth of 1 percent in November. It is expected to show a modest rise when the December reading is published on Wednesday.
The Fed's second reading - which showed a 10 percent chance of recession - is based on a predictive index developed recently by the National Bureau of Economic Research, a private group that has become a quasi-official arbiter of recessions. That index relies less on manufacturing performance than does the Commerce Department index and does not include stock prices, another factor in the leading indicators.
 
Softness in Durable Goods
Over all, Mr. Greenspan said, much of the recent softness in the economy is concentrated in durable goods, or items that last more than three years. That category indicated that weakness in motor vehicles had been spreading to metals, textiles, machine tools and related supplier industries. In addition, he said, various capital goods and consumer hard goods, as well as construction, had softened of late.
But durable goods should rebound after a pause, he said, and softness in housing prices ''is unlikely to prove highly contagious.''
Mr. Greenspan said that demand for durable goods is still growing in some sectors, especially civilian aircraft, and that there had been no speculative building up of inventories or cyclical upswings in either inflation or inflation psychology. Foreign demand for American goods, moreover, ''remains sizable,'' he said, and the economy continues to generate healthy numbers of new jobs.
In the credit markets, prices of Treasury bonds fell and interest rates rose as news reports of the Fed chairman's testimony flashed across trading screens, although bond prices finished the day higher because of other factors.
The timing of Mr. Greenspan's comments was considered noteworthy because the Fed's main policymaking body, the Federal Open Market Committee, is to meet next Tuesday and Wednesday to set monetary strategy for the year. The results of these deliberations, which involve the six sitting Fed governors - the seventh nomination is pending - and 12 presidents of regional Fed banks, are scheduled to be first disclosed before a House subcommittee on Feb. 20.
Since there is always at least some division among the participants, who meet eight times a year, Mr. Greenspan's comments may have reflected, at least in part, a desire to stake out his position before the important meeting. The February and July meetings each year lead to formal reports to Congress on the economic outlook and the Fed's strategic plan.
While Fed chairmen nearly always dominate internal policy discussions, the anti-inflation emphasis implied in Mr. Greenspan's comments found strong support from W. Lee Hoskins, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland and one of the committee's 12 voting members. Mr. Hoskins, who contends that the Fed's goal should be to reach zero inflation, said in a speech today in Columbus, Ohio, that ''threats of recession should not interfere with the long-run goal of price stability because price stability actually reduces the risk of recession and is a pro-growth policy.''
In response to questions from the panel, Mr. Greenspan minimized recent apparent differences with the Bush Administration over interest rates. He said the White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, used ''looser'' language than he would have liked in appealing for lower rates, but the Fed chairman said he saw nothing inappropriate in the sentiment and did not believe that the Administration was ''bashing us.''
Earlier this month, when the latest statistics on consumer prices were released, Mr. Fitzwater said inflation was ''under control,'' suggesting that this meant the Federal Reserve could afford to ease monetary policy further to prevent the economy from slipping into a recession. The next day, in an address to the nation's homebuilders, President Bush hailed the broad decline in home mortgage rates in the 1980's and suggested that rates should be lowered further.
The statements by both Mr. Fitzwater and the President, however, were considered mild compared with the sharp attacks on the Fed by officials in previous administrations when the economy was flagging in an election year.
 
Defends Bush Budget Plan
Mr. Greenspan gave these responses to other questions from committee members:
* He defended the Bush budget plan, which he said would produce a deficit ''not all that far'' from Gramm-Rudman targets if spending cuts are achieved.
* He said that no ''grand compromise'' of tax increases and spending cuts was needed because the financial markets would respond favorably to spending cuts alone.
* He implied that two fellow governors, the vice chairman, Manuel H. Johnson, and Wayne D. Angell, may have ''crossed a very fine line'' in discussing monetary strategy with journalists. At the same time, however, he credited financial journalists with a ''dramatically'' improved ability to interpret subtle Fed statements.
In a report in The Wall Street Journal on Jan. 18, the two Fed governors indicated in interviews that they would probably not favor easing credit for now because various economic indicators were looking better than last year.

GRAPHIC: photo: Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said yesterday that a recession is unlikely and that slow growth is a ''temporary hesitation.'' (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (60%); BAB (BRU) (60%); BA (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (60%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; FORECASTS; INTEREST (MONEY); CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); GOVERNORS (55%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); 



730 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1635 words

HEADLINE: But Is the Child Learning? Schools Trying New Tests

BYLINE: By EDWARD B. FISKE

 BODY:
John Mangini, a biology teacher at Kennedy High School in Waterbury, Conn., recently gave his students some live brine shrimp instead of a test. Or, rather, the shrimp were the test.
The students were told to determine the best saltwater solution for keeping the shrimp alive to mail them to a cousin with an aquarium in another state. ''They had to design their own experiment, figure out the salinity and test their hypothesis,'' said Mr. Mangini.
In that small way, he joined a growing effort in American education to find better ways to test students and evaluate the performance of teachers and schools. 
 
Book Knowledge and Reality
New approaches include hands-on science tests - like Mr. Mangini's - aimed at determining whether students can apply book knowledge to concrete situations, and the grading of portfolios of student work in writing, math and other subjects, to show academic growth over a period of time.
Such methods may not always be startlingly new in themselves, but their widening use in determining grades reflects a sense that the multiple-choice and other standardized tests now used to evaluate students are overly simplistic and distort education.
Critics say teachers, under pressure to make their students do well on standardized tests, waste valuable time teaching test-taking skills, or topics specific to a particular test.
''We need assessment devices that measure what we think is most important for students to learn,'' said Eva Baker, director of the Center for Research on Evaluation, Standards and Student Testing at the University of California at Los Angeles.
 
A Multimillion-Dollar Task
For all their faults, multiple-choice tests are efficient and economical, and finding alternatives is likely to be complex and expensive.
''You're talking about changing fundamental educational techniques and values,'' said Grant Wiggins, a consultant who has worked with school districts on new ways to test. ''And if the decision is made to build a national testing program, you're talking about tens of millions of dollars.''
Instead of tests on writing at the end of a semester, some English teachers in California now require portfolios of students' writing, including successive drafts of the same work. Schools in Connecticut and Vermont are experimenting with portfolios in math and science.
The goal is to measure what students can do over a period of time, not what they know on the day of a particular test.
''We are at a major turning point in how we think about educational assessment,'' said Richard P. Mills, Vermont's Commissioner of Education.
Since the early 20th century, the first pillar of accountability has been a tightly controlled bureaucracy. State education departments pick textbooks, design curriculums and certify teachers. The assumption is that such steps will produce good education. Educators who follow prescribed procedures rarely face discipline. ''No teacher ever lost her job just because students were not learning,'' said Mr. Mills.
 
Reaction Against Traditions
An important measure of how students fare is standardized tests of two basic skills, reading and mathematics. Since newspapers routinely publish school-by-school results, these tests are important in shaping public attitudes toward public schools.
Largely because of business and political leaders' doubts about the quality of American schools, the last few years have produced a reaction against the traditional ways of fixing responsibility. ''If you blame the system, then no particular person or group is accountable,'' said Mr. Wiggins.
Standardized multiple-choice tests have drawn increasing fire as too simplistic, measuring the ability to recognize knowledge rather than the ability to think and solve problems, an important skill in today's jobs.
''It's testing for the TV generation - superficial and passive,'' said Linda Darling-Hammond, a professor at Teacher's College of Columbia University. ''We don't ask if students can synthesize information, solve problems or think independently. We measure what they can recognize.''
 
The 'Holistic' Approach
Meanwhile, like big corporations, many school systems have been decentralizing management and giving teachers a larger role in deciding things like curriculum design. As a result, teachers are trying out new learning theories. In English, for instance, they now emphasize a ''holistic'' approach: students are judged on how effectively they handle longer passages of literature and writing and editing numerous drafts of essays.
 
The Trend Toward Portfolios
Perhaps the most promising new procedure for making such judgments is the use of collections of student work, the portfolios, which are already common in art and other fields in which teaching leads to a demonstrable product.
California is experimenting with writing portfolios in 12 districts. In one, Winfield Cooper, an English teacher at Torrey Pines High School in La Jolla, Calif., makes her students develop portfolios that include writing in the style of James Joyce or Mark Twain as well as writing a piece of original fiction. The students must then write an introduction to the portfolio that tells what they have learned about themselves as writers. ''We were amazed at what we saw,'' said Ms. Cooper. ''These weren't just the honor students.''
In Connecticut, a new high school mathematics and science assessment, to take effect the 1991-92 school year, measures performance on series of tasks that may take students as long as a semester.
 
Studying Projectile Motion
In New York, students in Sidney Fiarman's math-science class at the Central Park Secondary School in East Harlem have been studying the motion of projectiles. Each student was told to select some sort of moving object, learn the rules for calculating its motion and then demonstrate what he or she had found to the class.
Kelly Ross, a 10th grader, chose a basketball free throw. She put the math on the blackboard and then took her peers to the gymnasium for a demonstration. Once she has taken a pencil-and-paper test to show that she can apply what she learned to other situations and once she has defended her work before faculty members, she will receive a grade.
Miss Ross, who is 16 years old, said she sometimes felt self-conscious in front of her classmates but added, ''It's nice to have the chance to figure things out for yourselves and not have to run to an adult every time you don't know something.''
 
On Grading of Portfolios
The new approaches pose numerous problems, many of them technical. A major attraction of standardized test questions is the single right answer that a machine can translate into a score. But how do you grade portfolios?
Proponents say setting up a scoring system for such work - a scale of one to six, for example - is no more complicated than judgments made in athletic competitions like diving. ''Just because something is subjective doesn't mean that it can't be quantified,'' said Marc Tucker, president of the National Center for Education and the Economy.
Major designers of tests have developed ways of of training various evaluators to arrive at judgments on the quality of writing samples on examinations like the Scholastic Aptitude Test.
Evaluating portfolios and samples of writing is also far more time-consuming and costly than running score-sheets through a computer. Proponents say that when an entire school system is being judged, the costs can be kept down by testing a scientific sample of students rather than each student. ''You're evaluating an educational system, not individual students,'' said Lauren Resnick, a professor of education at the University of Pittsburgh.
 
Between Instruction and Testing
The current movement is seeking tests whose exercises more closely resemble the learning objectives. Critics of the current system say, for instance, that teachers frequently ''teach to the test'' in ways that undermine overall learning - for instance, by drilling their students on multiple-choice tests about writing rather than giving them practice in real writing.
To avoid such situations, California has added open-ended questions -questions difficult to answer by guessing - in the 12th grade math test. The idea is to make teaching to the test a virtue by changing the nature of the test.
 
Stressing 'Important Things'
Albert Shanker, president of the American Federation of Teachers, says a new accountability system must hinge on ''measuring important things.''
''There are no standardized tests in writing, so you don't have these annual things each year which say our district is above average in writing,'' he said. ''The same is true of science.''
Another issue is whether the United States should develop a national system of testing with some of the new techniques. For more than two decades the federally supported National Assessment of Educational Progress has been sampling the reading, math and other skills of schoolchildren. Congress recently authorized increasing the number of samples, for the first state-by-state comparisons of student achievement. The program will also begin collecting new kinds of information, including writing portfolios.
This month the President's Education Policy Advisory Committee recommended to President Bush that the national assessment program be expanded to permit the testing of every 9-, 13- and 17-year-old.
The National Governors' Association is working with the White House to draft such goals. ''If you're going to have a performance-oriented assessment system, you'd better have a serious discussion of what it is that you want students to be able to perform,'' said Mr. Tucker. ''And if you're going to have serious goals, you'd better have serious tests.''

GRAPHIC: photo: There is a growing effort in American education to find better ways to test pupils. Kelly Ross, a student at Central Park Secondary School in East Harlem, assisted by Kevin Collins, used a traditional chalkboard and nontraditional basketball to show how she calculated the ball's motion. (NYT/Fred R. Conrad) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); CURRICULA (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (76%); MATHEMATICS (75%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); 

PERSON: FISKE, EDWARD B MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); 



731 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-17
 
Stunned refugees from Liberia have reached the Ivory Coast with accounts of an outburst of violence between rebels and Government troops that left hundreds dead. Page A1

 
Pope urges Chad to pursue peace A3

 
Pressure for German reunification is building, President Mikhail Gorbachev acknowledged during a meeting with Prime Minister Hans Modrow of East Germany. A1

 
James Baker's talks in Moscow delayed for second time A11

 
The opposition parties' headquarters reopened in Rumania after being battered by pro-Government demonstrators Monday. There was widespread anxiety about the nation's political future. A1 
 
 
King Michael of Rumania, who has been living in exile for 42 years, wants to return to his throne in a role like that of Western Europe's constitutional monarchs. A10

 
Bucharest is newly free, but it's still Bucharest A10

Five more people killed in riots in Yugoslavia A11

Eastern European seeks U.N. help to chart human rights A11

 
Albania's Government is concerned that the democratic tide sweeping Eastern Europe could reach the Stalinist citadel. But diplomats discounted reports of anti-Communist demonstrations there. A12

 
Military spending in Western Europe could be cut by Governments propelled by the upheaval in Eastern Europe and the Administration's talk of withdrawing U.S. troops. A24

 
News analysis: Dan Quayle's trip to Latin America did not allay the region's resentment over the American invasion of Panama but rather dramatized it. A16

 
A pardon for Nicaraguan prisoners was announced by the Sandinista Government, which has begun choosing more than 1,000 rebel supporters and former National Guardsmen who are to be released. A16

 
Leftist guerrillas break out of Chilean jail through tunnel A14

Rape case in Mexico fuels outrage at police A15

 
Indian-Pakistani tensions are at their worst point since the two nations last fought a war in 1971 because of the dispute over Kashmir. A6

 
Relations between Laos and the U.S. are improving. The nation's Communist leaders want better ties and American economic aid. Washington has already complied, extending some development aid. A3

 
Senate approves economic sanctions against China A8

Japan parties agree to first debate in 30 years A7

Mitterrand reportedly agrees to free terrorist on hunger strike A5

 
NATIONAL A18-25
 
A recession is unlikely, the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, told Congress. He said the current slow growth was only a ''temporary hesitation.'' A1

 
Shearson Lehman Hutton's chief resigned under pressure, people in the firm said. The move reflects the continuing turmoil on Wall Street. A1

 
News analysis: The defense cuts proposed by Defense Secretary Dick Cheney represent a first step toward restructuring the military, but stop short of the major overhaul that many have advocated. A1

 
The first challenge to the budget proposed by President Bush came from the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, who filed legislation to derail the Pentagon's plan to consider closing dozens of miltary bases. A24

 
News analysis: The President puts new gloss on old problem A25

Reporter's Notebook: Bland document sparks a battle A25

Some G.O.P. leaders balk at voter registration bill A23

 
Excerpts of Ronald Reagan's diaries must be turned over to John Poindexter, a judge has ruled. Mr. Poindexter had argued the diaries would show Mr. Reagan authorized his actions in the Iran-contra affair. A1

 
A pipe bomb exploded in Houston. The bomb, mailed to one of the city's largest churches, injured the pastor's daughter. Investigators are trying to learn whether there is a connection to mail bombings in the South. A20

 
Detroit's two rival newspapers, which once engaged in bitter circulation wars, have entered an uneasy alliance, combining their business operations while preserving two editorial voices. A22

 
Two deaf brothers shot by group of teen-agers in California A18

Drug-laced air of homes reportedly harming infants A18

Witness in Barry drug investigation enters guilty plea A21

Ford loses patent suit on windshield wipers D1

Philadelphia journal: A marriage made of fantasy and art A18

 
REGIONAL B1-4
 
A large AIDS research laboratory will open in New York City this year under an $11 million project co-sponsored by the city and the Aaron Diamond Foundation. B1

 
Group recommends AZT for patients with no symptoms B4

 
Colombian immigrants in Queens have been shaken and in some cases embittered by the crash of Avianca Flight 52 last week. B1

 
Flight 52 did not get landing priority, officials say B2

 
Tapes said to be of John Gotti as he ordered an assault on a carpenters' union leader were played at his trial in Manhattan. B1

 
Connecticut Bank and Trust's woes have underlined the harsh reality of New England's economic downturn. Once the linchpin of the state's economy, the bank's future now seems less than secure. B1

 
How safe are subways for children? Parents at a City Council hearing tell of the perils their children encounter on the way to school and of their fears of youth violence and ''wilding.'' B3

 
Schools Chancellor urges jail term in teacher's drug case B3

Dinkins will reportedly ask for $550 million in new taxes B3

Hospital rescue offered in State Assembly B2

Volunteers search out handicapped parking violators B2

 
NEEDIEST CASES A23
 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1
 
THE LIVING SECTION
 
Food
 
Brand-name beef: Is it better? C1

A writer-baker muses on bread C1

 
Living
 
Miniature golf, the new city game C1

Metropolitan Diary C2

Points West C10

 
ARTS/ENTERTAINMENT
 
Royal Shakespeare: Ready to move on C15

Accord on Dali paintings C15

Theater: ''The Winter's Tale'' C15

Music: Pop Life C14

Word and Image: A speechwriter's memoir C20

 
SPORTS
 
Basketball: Knicks look to end losing streak in Boston B11

Boxing: Notebook B10

Column: Berkow on ghost pinch-hitter B9

Football: Yale honors Cozza B9

Hockey: Arbour is the Islanders' ultimate team man B9

Islanders lose to Blues B9

 
EDUCATION
 
Better ways to test students are being pressed by American educators, who are challenging the traditional methods, such as the multiple choice and other standardized tests that many think distort education. A1

 
OBITUARIES D27

 
Donald J. Newman, criminologist
Hal Draper, scholar and writer
 
EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
 
Editorials A26

 
Riders' rights, beggars' rights
One Yugoslavia, or six?
Ban the boom
Chance to expand democracy
 
Letters A26

Russell Baker: Once again now A27

Ronald Fraser: If Congress can't cut this . . . A27

Jim Hankins: Casualties of the drug war A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); ROMANIA (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); GERMANY (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (87%); ALBANIA (79%); INDIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHILE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (52%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); RIOTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (66%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (63%); APPROVALS (60%); 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (56%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 



732 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Laos Are Getting Friendlier

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VIENTIANE, Laos

 BODY:
The Communist leaders of Laos want better relations with the United States and American economic aid, and the United States appears ready to respond.
In separate interviews, Prime Minister Kaysone Phomvihan, who is also the Communist Party leader, and Acting President Phoumi Vongvichit both asserted that Laos wanted to turn the page on the past, in which the Laotian Communists warred against the American-supported royal Government and the United States heavily bombed this country and organized and sustained a clandestine Laotian army.
Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan, in his first interview with an American journalist in the 15 years that he has ruled Laos, said, ''Lately relations between the two countries have made some progress, after some delay.''
The Laotian leader referred to a little-publicized American project agreed to last Sept. 30. It was the first United States development aid to Vietnam, Laos or Cambodia since the Communist victories in those countries in 1975. 
 
Anti-Drug Accord
The agreement was signed in this most reclusive of Indochina's capitals and not announced in Washington. It was followed in January with another first, the signing of an agreement for American-Laotian cooperation in fighting the narcotics trade.
The mountainous regions of Laos are prime opium-growing areas, and some is refined into heroin in illicit Laotian laboratories.
The $8.7 million development project signed last year was linked to the accord on anti-drug cooperation, since its goal is to persuade nomadic mountain tribespeople in two remote northeastern districts to substitute other cash crops for opium, their traditional money-earner.
The districts are part of Houaphan Province, where, during the Vietnam War, Laotian Communist leaders like Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan and Mr. Phoumi Vongvichit lived in caves to escape years of heavy American bombing. So intense was the air war that peasants stayed in their caves by daylight and tilled their fields only at night. Sam Neua, the provincial capital, was the headquarters of what Communists called the ''liberated zone.''
The project, which is scheduled to take six years to complete, provides for the building of roads and irrigation dams, establishing communications links and extending agricultural, public-health and educational services.
A Western ambassador said the development program had been submitted earlier to the European Community and Australia, but they declined to undertake it, saying major gains in the anti-narcotics effort would be too difficult to achieve.
The diplomat added that the United States probably held a similar view, but had agreed to provide the aid for the political reason of moving toward a resumption of normal relations with Laos; such a step could presage normalized relations with Vietnam.
 
Ties Maintained
The United States has never interrupted diplomatic relations with Laos, as it has with Vietnam and Cambodia. It maintains an embassy, run by a charge d'affaires. The small staff rattles about in large buildings where American officials, in addition to normal diplomatic activities, once oversaw a major war effort and took part in most of the activities of the Laotian Government.
Acknowledging the development project, Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan, speaking in French, said, ''I think two districts is not enough, compared with the number of bombs America poured on our country.''
The subsequent Laotian-American agreement was signed on Jan. 9 in a friendly, low-key ceremony at the Foreign Ministry. It was toasted with champagne by the charge d'affaires, Charles B. Salmon Jr., and Deputy Foreign Minister Souban Sritthirath.
Mr. Salmon called the signing an ''auspicious event'' and said it was ''reflective of the improving relationship.'' Mr. Souban Sritthirath, raising his glass in response, said he hoped the ''memorandum of understanding'' would ''contribute to understanding and normalization in the relations of our two countries.''
 
House Delegation Visits
The agreement commits Laos to a ''maximum effort'' to eliminate the cultivation of opium and its trafficking. The United States has agreed to help in development efforts to provide high landers with ''viable economies'' based on crops other than opium. Laos promised to cooperate with the United States in curbing drug trafficking and ''make officials and facilities available'' to that end.
The accord followed President Bush's ''decertification'' of Laos last March for what Washington called Vientiane's failure to cooperate in narcotics suppression. Alluding to this, Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan said, ''There are things that do not exist, but we are blamed.'' Laotian and American officials said they hoped that the agreement would remove the block on cooperation.
A House delegation led by Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of Manhattan and chairman of the Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control, spent a day here recently and, surprisingly, was received by Nouhak Phoumsavanh, president of the National Assembly and held to be the most anti-Western of the Laotian leaders. The Americans were the first to meet with Mr. Nouhak Phoumsavanh, who was reported to have received them in a friendly and relaxed atmosphere.
Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan said Mr. Nouhak Phoumsavanh assured his visitors that Laos would proceed with severity against narcotics offenses.
 
Coopoeration on M.I.A.'s
American officials also expressed satisfaction with Laotian cooperation in the search for the remains of American servicemen missing in action, believed to have been killed when their planes were shot down over Laos. A 17-member American military search mission spent several days in southern Laos in January and recovered remains from two crash sites.
Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan and Mr. Phoumi Vongvichit linked this cooperation directly with demands for American economic aid. ''We gave you all that you needed,'' the Acting President said he had told American diplomats. ''But you have given us nothing directly.''
Both leaders acknowledged that the United States, through international organizations, had contributed rice during periods of drought. ''We want direct aid from you to us,'' said the 80-year-old Mr. Phoumi Vongvichit, who for several years has served as President in place of Prince Souphanouvong, who has apparently retired.

GRAPHIC: photo: A recent agreement to combat the drug trade and an aid package signed last fall are indications of American willingness to improve ties with Laos. The leaders of Laos say they want a new chapter in relations with the United States, which backed the royal Government before the Communist victory of 1975. (NYT/Henry Kamm)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (98%); VIET NAM (94%); CAMBODIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LAOS

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); BOMBINGS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); OPIUM (72%); HEROIN (72%); FARM LABOR (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); MOUNTAINS (66%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (50%); IRRIGATION (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: KAYSONE PHOMVIHAN (PRIME MIN); KAMM, HENRY KAYSONE PHOMVIHAN (79%); 



733 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Mitterrand Is Said to Agree to Free Hunger Striker

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 30

 BODY:
President Francois Mitterrand has promised to release a convicted pro-Iranian terrorist in exchange for his agreement to end a four-month hunger strike, published reports said today.
The French weekly satirical newspaper, Le Canard Enchaine, said the 36-year-old terrorist, Anis Naccache, who had lost nearly 80 pounds, agreed over the weekend to stop his hunger strike after weeks of secret negotiations.
He had been sentenced to life in prison in connection with an attempt to kill a former Iranian Prime Minister, Shahpur Bakhtiar. 
One of Mr. Naccache's lawyers, Jacques Verges, has indicated that the terrorist received a direct request from Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, to end his strike, leaving the strong impression that the Iranian leader was part of a deal.
Spokesmen at Elysee Palace, the Prime Minister's office and the French Foreign Ministry all refused to comment on the report in the French newspaper and another, in a Kuwait daily.
President Mitterrand said on Jan. 5 that Mr. Naccache could not obtain his liberty by going on a hunger strike, but added that ''he can always hope to be liberated when the time comes.''
The release of Mr. Naccache has repeatedly been demanded by Iran, which has officially stated that it was part of complicated agreements that led to the release of all French hostages held in Beirut in 1988.
Several Iranian leaders, including President Hashemi Rafsanjani and the Foreign Minister, have said they expected France to live up to the accord, which included a pledge by Iran to refrain from sponsoring any acts of terror against France and a French commitment to normalize ties and resume economic and industrial cooperation.
The accord has been largely upheld, except for the continued detention of Mr. Naccache, who went on a hunger strike Sept. 8, saying he would stop only when France lived up to its agreement to release him.
 
U.S. Hostages in Lebanon
A report in the Kuwaiti daily Al Qabas today said ''extremely secret high level'' talks have recently been held between senior Iranian and American officials in Paris, Geneva and an unidentified West German city about the fate of the American hostages in Lebanon and about normalizing ties between Iran and the United States.
Al Qabas went on to say that the administration of President Rafsanjani was persuaded that the hostages have outlived their usefulness and is ready to release them.
But a few days ago, a senior Iranian official said that Iran was putting the issue of improved ties with the United States at the end of its list of priorities, concentrating instead on better ties with Western Europe.
In 1988, Jacques Chirac, who was then Prime Minister, pledged that France would do what it could to bring about the release of other nationals after it negotiated the release of its own hostages.
A number of pro-Iranian terrorists are held in France as prisoners. A group of 10 led by Fouad Ali Saleh, a Tunisian accused of terrorist acts, went on trial Monday in Paris.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN; FRANCE

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; HUNGER STRIKES ASSASSINATION (91%); TERRORISM (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); SENTENCING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); PRISONS (76%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M; NACCACHE, ANIS; MITTERRAND, FRANCOIS (PRES); BAKHTIAR, SHAHPUR HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (59%); JACQUES CHIRAC (59%); ALI KHAMENEI (54%); 



734 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Senate Votes Economic Sanctions Against China

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30

 BODY:
The Senate unanimously approved legislation today that included a series of economic sanctions against China.
But the Senate action leaves President Bush wide discretion to waive the sanctions if he considers it in the national interest to do so.
The sanctions, prompted by China's crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators last June, were approved five days after President Bush won a political victory when the Senate sustained his veto of a bill protecting Chinese students from deportation.
The sanctions approved today were part of a $9.7 billion measure authorizing State Department activities for fiscal years 1990 and 1991. The bill now goes to the President, who is expected to sign it into law. 
The legislation, which was approved 98 to 0, urges the Export-Import Bank to continue to postpone financing for United States exports to China and suspends financial support from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and the Trade and Development Program.
 
A Halt to Licenses
The legislation also halts the issuance of licenses for the export of military items and, if the repression in China deepens, calls for a review of China's most-favored-nation trade status and bilateral trade agreements related to satellite technology and nuclear energy.
But the measure gives Mr. Bush the power to end any of the sanctions if he decides that doing so serves the national interest of the United States or if he judges that significant change has taken place in China.
The bill includes $3.3 billion this year and $3.7 billion next year for the State Department, most of it for basic expenses like employees' paychecks and the expenses connected with American embassies and consulates. The bill also includes about $2 billion for the United States Information Agency and $600 million for the Board for International Broadcasting, which runs Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty.
Last Thursday Mr. Bush in effect won the right to pursue his own China policy when the Senate, by 62 votes to 37, sustained his veto of the bill on deporting Chinese students. The bill was passed by wide bipartisan majorities in November as a response to the crackdown in Tiananmen Square in June. Mr. Bush said that he had ordered the Immigration and Naturalization Service to adopt measures that would protect all Chinese who wanted to stay in the United States. The day before the Senate vote, the House had voted to override by 390 votes to 25.
 
The End of an Impasse
The vote today ends a two-month impasse between the Administration and Congress over authorizing funds for the State Department, the United States Information Agency and other related agencies.
Congress approved a State Department bill in November authorizing spending for the State Department, the Voice of America and other agencies. But President Bush vetoed the measure because it contained a provision stemming from the Iran-contra affair that would have made it a crime for American officials to solicit money from foreign nations or from individuals to promote military, intelligence or foreign policy activity barred by law. Mr. Bush said the provision would have infringed on his constitutional powers to conduct foreign policy.
The provision had been introduced by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York.
After the veto, the House dropped the provision from the bill and approved the measure. The Senate failed to vote on it before the recess.
Before the vote today, a group of liberal Democratic senators proposed a package of aid to Eastern European nations worth $511 million. The proposal, sponsored by Senators Clairborne Pell of Rhode Island, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Paul Simon of Illinois and Joseph Biden of Delaware, is an increase of more than $200 million over the Eastern Europe aid package that the Bush Administration requested in its fiscal 1991 budget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); 

COMPANY: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (69%); TRADE & DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MONGOLIA (56%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (56%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LEGISLATION (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); VETO (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); DEPORTATION (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); TRENDS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (51%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



735 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: THE 1991 BUDGET: CONFLICT;
Move to Stop Base Closings Begins Battle Over Spending

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30

 BODY:
In the first direct challenge to President Bush's budget, the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee filed legislation today that would derail the Pentagon's proposal to consider closing dozens of military bases.
The measure, filed by Representative Les Aspin, Democrat of Wisconsin, struck at the heart of Defense Secretary Dick Cheney's plans to change the American military. Those plans are emerging as one of the most contentious issues in Mr. Bush's proposed budget for the 1991 fiscal year.
Apparently hoping to keep base closings from producing the kind of political brawl over other issues that threw the military budget debate into disarray in the House last year, Mr. Aspin proposed creating a bipartisan commission to choose bases for closing. Otherwise, he said, the list could be used as a ''political gun'' to control votes on other legislation. 
Representative Patricia Schroeder, the Colorado Democrat who heads the Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Installations, accused Mr. Cheney of producing ''an unbalanced, partisan hit list.'' Mrs. Schroeder produced figures showing that 19 of the 21 bases under consideration for closing are in Congressional districts with a Democratic representative, as are 99 percent of the civilian jobs that would be cut if the proposed actions are carried out.
 
Political Considerations Denied
The Pentagon denied Mrs. Schroeder's charge. ''The list you've got are recommendations by the services for bases that they would close in light of decisions to reduce the overall size of the force,'' said Bob Hall, a Pentagon spokesman. ''It was not made with political considerations in mind.''
The lines of conflict also came into sharp focus today over other parts of Mr. Bush's requests, especially proposals to limit increases in Medicare, Federal pensions and other Federal benefits that are particularly volatile in an election year.
At a hearing of the House Budget Committee, the panel's chairman, Representative Leon E. Panetta, Democrat of California, focused on one major objection to the budget request, the economic forecasts on which it was based. He sharply rebuked the President for not making what he called ''a serious effort at deficit reduction.''
''If the President is not serious about deficit reduction, why should Congress be serious?'' Mr. Panetta asked Richard G. Darman, director of the Office of Management and Budget, who testified at the hearing.
 
'Of Course I'm Serious'
''It's almost regretable that I should even have to say this, but of course the President's serious,'' Mr. Darman told Mr. Panetta. ''Of course I'm serious.''
Represented by Mr. Darman and Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, the Administration fought back, defending the budget as an attempt to promote savings, continue economic growth and make needed changes in programs like Medicare and Social Security without jeopardizing benefits.
Mr. Darman also defended the economic forecasts used to write the budget, which projects steady economic growth and constantly declining inflation over the next five years. Congress disputes those figures, and its own forecasters are more pessimistic.
Testifying today before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said he believes that the current economic slowdown is temporary and that the risk of recession is less than it was last spring. But when asked about the economic forecast used for the budget, Mr. Greenspan said it was based on the assumption that the President's budget would be approved intact, a prospect that lawmakers from both parties dismiss.
 
Setting Up the Battle Lines
Much of what went on today in press briefings and Congressional hearings was maneuvering to define the lines for the battle that eventually will be fought out in the House and Senate.
Many Democratic legislators focused their attack today on the $295.1 billion Pentagon budget that that Mr. Bush is seeking for 1991. That is a decrease of 2.6 percent from the current fiscal year, after accounting for inflation, but in simple terms is an increase of about $3.8 billion. When nuclear weapons research and production in the Department of Energy and military related activities in other agencies are included, the budget request for the military goes up to $306.9 billion.
On Monday, Mr. Cheney sent Congress a list of bases and other military installations in the United States and abroad that are being considered for closing, along with others that are being considered for reductions.
 
'The Process Stinks'
Mr. Aspin said the ''substance'' of what Mr. Cheney is trying to do was right. ''But the process stinks,'' he said.
He also said the Pentagon's base closings list also had a political dimension. ''The list can be changed,'' he said. ''Bases can be deleted or perhaps added. That creates hostages for the Administration. Vote against a veto override, your base is safe. Vote to override, your base is threatened. Simple as that.''
Mr. Aspin said he was introducing legislation to create a bipartisan commission to select bases for closing, like the one that offered 86 closings and reductions approved by Congress last year. Congress then had a choice of rejecting or approving the entire list, which gave members political cover for cuts ordered in their districts.
At a news conference on Monday, Mr. Cheney said the chairman of that base closing commission had told him ''he'd never serve again in that kind of a capacity.''
''He also said the commission decided to recommend against another commission,'' Mr. Cheney said.
In addition to the conflict over the military budget, the Administration and Congress clashed today over Mr. Bush's proposals to reduce the increase in Medicare payments by $5.5 billion in 1991, to extend the Social Security tax to local and state employees and to eliminate cost-of-living increases in Federal retirement benefits.
''You don't know what a tough choice is,'' Representative Marty Russo, Democrat of Illinois, told Mr. Darman. ''Do you think $5.5 billion cutting out of Medicare is a tough choice for you? It's easy for you. You've been doing it for all these years. Your party's been doing it.''
Mr. Darman said the reduction in the Medicare increase was part of an effort to bring down the costs of Medicare and not to reduce services.
When Mr. Panetta, Mr. Russo and others said they did not think the proposals would survive, Mr. Darman replied, ''We don't expect to get every last dime, especially in the sensitive and controversial areas. But by the same token, we can't have these health costs continue to go up at much higher rates than the general inflation rate.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) BUDGETS (93%); CLOSINGS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); MEDICARE (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; ASPIN, LES (REPR); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) DICK CHENEY (78%); LEON E PANETTA (77%); 



736 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: THE 1991 BUDGET: EUROPE;
Momentum Grows for Military Spending Cuts in West Europe

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 30

 BODY:
The upheavals in the Communist countries in Eastern Europe and the Bush Administration's talk of closing bases and withdrawing troops from Greece, Britain, Italy, West Germany and Turkey have stepped up the political momentum toward greater military spending cuts in Western Europe.
Some governments - notably in Britain and France - are hoping to keep these feelings under control, and British officials have reacted in a studiously relaxed way to American budget proposals that military operations here be consolidated by ending operations at three British bases. But other officials at NATO headquarters in Brussels said they saw a danger that the alliance could begin to unravel if reductions are not carefully managed.
Some Eastern European politicians, like Czechoslovakia's Foreign Minister, Jiri Dienstbier, have said that changes in NATO could be only logical, since the Warsaw Pact is already in a more advanced state of collapse, and that both alliances should gradually be superseded by a wider framework. 
In both East and West, there is agreement that some of this could be provided by the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, a gathering of 35 nations that took place in Helsinki in 1975 and will convene again later this year, possibly in Vienna.
 
Rate of Change Questioned
But all over Western Europe, politicians and commentators are beginning to say that NATO's way of responding to the bewildering speed of change in the East - with the conventional arms talks that have been under way in Vienna since last year - may not produce results fast enough. Richard N. Perle, regarded by most left-of-center Western Europeans through most of the 1980's as a sinister influence on the American Government, is now cited approvingly as saying the Soviet Union is no longer capable of mounting a sudden conventional attack on the West.
And all over the political spectrum, political pressure is mounting on Western European Governments to draw the consequences by cutting military spending. Here, even The Daily Telegraph, a conservative newspaper, said today that changes had to come. ''It is not credible for Britain, alone among the senior NATO partners, to sing a wholly different song,'' Max Hastings, its editor, wrote.
West Germany is at the heart of the debate, as it was bound to be once the rationale for the separate existence of an East German nation began collapsing with the Berlin wall last autumn. West Germany's Foreign Minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, stressing his country's continuing commitment to NATO in an interview with the mass-circulation Bild am Sonntag, seemed to warn that the commitment would end, or have to change, if East and West Germany became one.
 
A Commitment to NATO
''Anybody who wants to extend NATO's borders to the Oder and Neisse,'' he said, referring to the East German frontier with Poland, ''shuts the door on a united Germany.'' For West Germany, he said, ''Our commitment to remain in NATO, on the other hand, is undisputed.'' One NATO diplomat in Brussels said the statement was carefully worded but still ambiguous.
President Bush suggested a joint ceiling of 275,000 Soviet and American troops in Europe at the NATO summit in Brussels last May. But already some Western European officials are saying that this proposal, which was seen as a daring initiative then, is not enough now. One NATO expert said that the United States was already under pressure within the alliance to reduce the negotiated troop-strength ceilings to 200,000 to 250,000.
''It's going to be a question of what the right political timing is,'' one official said. ''Right now, the people in Washington feel, is not the time to change that.''
 
Major American Bases
The major American installations are the cruise missile bases at Comiso in Italy and Greenham Common in England. United States operations at Zweibrucken Air Base in West Germany, a center for tactical and photo-reconnaissance activities, are also ending.
Tanker refuelling operations at Fairford Air Base in Britain will be moved elsewhere, as will a smaller installation at Wethersfield.
An Air Force transport unit at Hellenikon Air Base near Athens will be transferred, and a small naval communications station at Nea Makri in Greece will be closed, as will two installations in Turkey: an air base at Erhac and a nuclear munitions storage site at Eskisehir.
While the negotiations in Vienna now concern only American and Soviet forces in Western Europe, NATO countries are already beginning to speculate about when and how much their own forces can be reduced in the next stage of negotiations, whose existence is now taken for granted even though the alliance hasn't formally agreed that they should take place. The prospect has already set off reverberations in France, which as the British weekly The Economist points out in its current issue, would be ''in the hot seat'' if a reunited Germany banned foreign troops from its territory.
 
Cuts for Dutch and Belgians
''The maintenance of West European forces on the territory of the Federal Republic is an expression of particular solidarity that will not be affected by the negotiations,'' the French Foreign Minister, Roland Dumas, said in Vienna last week, but to many it seemed like wishful thinking.
The Belgian Defense Minister, Guy Coeme, suggested in interviews with Brussels newspapers last week that Belgium was thinking about the eventual withdrawal of 25,000 troops stationed in West Germany. His Dutch counterpart, Relus Ter Beek, said that over the next two years, 750 of the 5,000 troops the Netherlands keeps in Germany would be brought home.
British military officials were also reported last weekend to be considering the possibility of cuts in the $32 billion military budget, and of reductions in the 67,000-strong British Army of the Rhine in West Germany, though they denied an account in The Sunday Times of London that suggested these were more than contingency plans.
''Our view is that there is no scope for defense cuts,'' an official in Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's office said. ''We aim at keeping our forces in Germany as far into the future as we can see, and any restructuring would not save us much money at all.''
West Germany, whose 494,000-strong armed forces are the core of NATO military strategy, has already canceled plans to extend the 18-month hitch that draftees serve, and announced plans to restructure its forces by the end of the decade, possibly reducing them to below 400,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (96%); WESTERN EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (92%); TURKEY (92%); GREECE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); BELGIUM (79%); POLAND (79%); FINLAND (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (71%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMED FORCES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); POLITICS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (65%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); WHITNEY, CRAIG R



737 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: THE 1991 BUDGET: SOCIAL SECURITY;
Of Budgets And Truth

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30

 BODY:
Shaken by the political appeal of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan's plan to cut the Social Security tax, the Bush Administration has put a new gloss on an old proposal. In the budget submitted to Congress on Monday, the Administration called for creation of a new ''Social Security Integrity and Debt Reduction Fund.''
As the budget describes it, the purpose of the fund would be threefold: to create a surplus of revenue late in this decade that could be used to begin retiring the Government's debt; to prevent an increase in Social Security benefits or a reduction in the Social Security tax, and to force spending cuts in other Government programs after 1992.
This is in large part public relations maneuvering. The Government cannot begin to pay off the Federal debt - the total amount owed to those who hold Treasury bonds and other Government securities, now amounting to about $3 trillion - until the overall annual budget, including the Social Security system, is in surplus; that is, until the annual deficit is eliminated. Even by the Administration's calculations, which critics say are unrealistic, that will not occur until 1996. 
The plan allows the Administration to make the popular political argument that it is protecting Social Security entitlements for today's baby boomers when they retire in the next century.
 
Need to Meet Obligations
That, too, is somewhat misleading. The Government will have to tax or borrow enough in the 21st century to meet the retirement obligations, regardless of what is done now.
Because Social Security taxes rose in the last decade and income taxes were cut, an increasing share of Government revenue comes from Social Security taxes.
In the current fiscal year, $62 billion more will be paid in Social Security taxes than will be paid out in benefits, with the surpluses rising year by year.
At the same time, according to the President's budget, the deficit in the rest of the Government will be $183 billion in this fiscal year. Even if the optimistic economic forecasts of the Administration are accepted and all President Bush's budget-cutting proposals are adopted, this deficit in the part of the budget outside Social Security will continue until 1996.
The Administration and Senator Moynihan, Democrat of New York, agree that the Social Security surplus is being used to mask the size of the deficit in the Government's operating expenses, which range from paper clips to aircraft carriers. They also agree that this is bad policy and that the money should be used for investments to guarantee pensions for baby boomers when they retire.
But they attack the problem from different directions.
 
Raising Other Taxes
Mr. Moynihan would like to raise other taxes to meet day-to-day expenses, so Social Security money could be used to insure future retirement benefits. Since Mr. Bush refuses to do that, the Senator argues, the tax should be reduced, by more than $60 billion over two years, so that Social Security taxes and benefits would be in balance. That would require higher taxes later on when baby boomers retire.
The Bush Administration would continue to use Social Security taxes to pay operating expenses for the next two years. At that point, the Administration figures, the overall budget, including Social Security, will be in balance, and the Government can be weaned from reliance on Social Security taxes.
This is where the Social Security Integrity and Debt Reduction Fund fund would come in. In the fiscal year 1993, $14.1 billion, or 15 percent of the Social Security surplus, would be paid into the fund. In 1994, $53.6 billion, or 50 percent of the surplus, would be put in the fund. In 1995, the figure would be $101.8 billion, or 85 percent, and in 1996 all the surplus would go into the fund.
The Administration describes the money in the fund as being used for debt retirement. But that would not be the case until 1996. Before that, it would simply mean that the Government would have to borrow less money, and the debt would grow less rapidly.
What it would mean, however, is that, assuming taxes do not rise, other Federal expenses would have to be cut by the amount placed in the fund.
Most economists agree that good reason exists to build up a Social Security surplus and to invest the money.
The notion that workers' payroll taxes are placed in a trust fund to pay for their own retirement is a fiction. No matter how the budget is sliced, this is one Government. Social Security is a pay-as-you-go system. Each generation pays taxes to finance the retirement of their parents' generation.
When more money is received in Social Security taxes than is needed for benefits, as is now the case, the surplus is used to buy Treasury bonds.
If there were no deficit in the everyday operating budget, all the surplus could be used to buy Treasury securities held by private lenders. Those lenders' money could then be invested in plants, equipment and other productive enterprises, stimulating growth in the entire economy.
That was the theory behind the payroll tax rises that began in 1983. If more money is invested in private ventures and the economy grows accordingly, it will be easier for the children of the baby-boom generation to pay for their parents' retirement benefits.
Mr. Moynihan would have no difficulty with the Administration's plan if it began today to segregate all the Social Security money and found money elsewhere, in taxes or reduced spending, to pay the rest of the Government's expenses. What he objects to is the continued payment for operating expenses of money from a tax that mostly affects the poor and middle class.
As of Jan. 1, workers and their employers each pay 7.65 percent on payday, 6.2 percent for retirement under Social Security and 1.45 percent for Medicare, the health insurance program for the elderly and disabled. The tax is paid on the first $51,300 of wages.
The Social Security tax has risen steeply in recent years. At the beginning of the last decade, it was 6.13 percent on the first $29,700 of wages.
At the same time, income tax rates have been lowered. The top rate for individuals is now 28 percent or 33 percent, down from 70 percent at the beginning of the 1980's. The corporate income tax has also been sharply cut.
As a result, the share of Federal revenues coming from Social Security taxes rose by 23 percent in the 1980's. The share covered by individual income taxes fell 6 percent, and that of corporate taxes by 23 percent.
Unlike income taxes, which rise as a proportion of income as taxpayers' income increases, Social Security taxes are not only cut off at $51,300 but are paid at the same rate by all workers. Moreover, they apply only to wages and not to interest, dividends, capital gains and other forms of income enjoyed largely by the well-to-do.
What that means is that a husband and wife earning $35,000 each pay more in Social Security tax than a single person who earns $350,000. #2 Sides of Picture Mr. Moynihan believes it is unfair for such a tax to be used for ordinary expenditures. On the other hand, he tends to overlook that Social Security benefits are skewed in favor of the less well-off.
According to the Social Security Administration, someone who retired in 1989 after paying the maximum Social Security tax for an entire working life would be receiving $10,837 this year in benefits. If this retiree's average salary had been, say $50,000, the benefit would be only 22 percent of what the worker usually earned.
On the other hand, a retiree whose average salary was $19,334 would be receiving 42 percent of his average salary, or $8,053, in payments this year. Someone whose average wages were only $8,700 would get $5,036 in benefits, or 58 percent.
In addition, nonworking spouses are entitled to a benefit even if they paid nothing into the system. And the poorest workers get some of their tax payments back each year in the form of an earned income tax credit.

GRAPHIC: graphs of Social Security federal operating budget and surpluses from '83 to '89; budget deficit from '83 to '89 (Source: Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING SOCIAL SECURITY (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); BABY BOOMERS (75%); BONDS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 



738 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: One Yugoslavia or Six?

 BODY:
Yugoslavia has come to the brink of radical change later than its Eastern European neighbors. Now it faces fundamental questions, like the future of Communist rule and its survival as a single country. Yet unity is not automatically the top priority. Yugoslavia's most compelling need now is for effective reforms to halt its slide toward ethnic conflict and economic ruin. Washington still has an interest in trying to preserve Yugoslav unity, but not at any cost. 
Yugoslavia is a 20th-century invention. Right after World War I, the prewar states of Serbia and Montenegro merged with defeated Austria-Hungary's Slavic provinces of Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. That union satisfied aspirations that had helped trigger the war.
But it also created new nationality problems, jumbling together Roman Catholics, Orthodox Christians and Muslims with conflicting allegiances and mutual suspicions. Non-Serbians feared domination by Serbia, by far the largest component of the new country. And Serbians feared that other groups would gang up against them, an anxiety reinforced by anti-Serbian atrocities in World War II.
In 1945 Yugoslavia was reorganized into the present federation of six republics under the Communist leadership of Marshal Tito. When he split with Stalin in 1948, he gave the West an interest in defending Yugoslav unity and independence.
That independence has partly insulated Yugoslavia from the upheavals in Eastern Europe. Communist authority did not rest on Soviet legions. But Yugoslavia had home-grown problems. Its economy has bogged down in corruption and hyperinflation. The sense of nationhood imposed by Tito weakened after his death, in 1980.
Tito's model consciously discriminated against Serbia. With his demise, Serbian nationalism caught fire. Its demagogic torchbearer is Slobodan Milosevic, president of the Serbian Republic. His program is Serbian dominance, Communist supremacy and economic centralism.
Non-Serbian Communists, led by Slovenes and Croats, now demand pluralism and market reforms. They hint that they might quit the federation if Serbia blocks nationwide reform. Since Serbia seemed to do just that during last week's Communist Party conference, Yugoslavia's dissolution seems possible.
But there may be a less drastic alternative. Prime Minister Ante Marcovic is a popular, effective reformer. His strategy is for the federal Government to work around the Communists if they will not embrace reform. But perhaps national disintegration has already gone too far.
A year ago, a breakup of Yugoslavia would have left the surviving pieces dangerously vulnerable to Warsaw Pact pressure. That's no longer so. Dissolving the federation might be less explosive than fierce ethnic friction or continued economic paralysis. The basic choices are for Yugoslavs to make. America's preferences should be reform, stability and unity, in that order.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CROATIA (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); MONTENEGRO (79%); HUNGARY (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); AUSTRIA (57%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNIST PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RELIGION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (79%); WORLD WAR II (75%); TRENDS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); WORLD WAR I (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: TITO (52%); 



739 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: A Chance to Expand Democracy

 BODY:
Why don't Americans vote? While other parts of the world edge closer to democracy, America's democracy is shrinking. Reflecting a steady decline in participation, barely half the voting-age population took part in the 1988 Presidential election - the worst turnout in 64 years. The uninspiring campaign surely didn't help. But the problem starts with simple arithmetic. Only 61 percent of all eligible voters are registered. 
Landmark legislation now before the House would transform the system for registering voters - a crazy-quilt of 50 state laws whose net effect is to discourage voters. Despite last-minute objections from the Administration and the House minority leader, Robert Michel, the measure deserves swift approval.
Sponsored by Representative Al Swift, Democrat of Washington, and Representative William Thomas, Republican of California, the measure would supplant present state-by-state barriers to registration with common-sense standards for Federal elections. The most important is a ''motor-voter'' provision. It would require states to register eligible citizens automatically whenever they apply for a driver's license or license renewal.
That would be a giant boost for enrollment; nearly 87 percent of voting-age Americans drive. The impact on voter turnout is hard to predict. But since roughly 8 registered voters in 10 go to the polls, it is likely to be significant.
States would also be required to allow registration by mail instead of asking citizens to show up at municipal offices, a practice still required by an astonishing 27 states. Another provision would make registration forms available at public agencies like welfare and unemployment offices. The bill would also end the destructive practice of purging voters from the rolls simply for not voting, and would build in new safeguards against fraud.
Chances for House approval looked bright until some Republicans complained the bill would impose undue burdens on state election boards and encourage phony votes. But over all, the bill represents a sensible compromise between Democrats, who traditionally support easy registration, and Republicans, who worry more about fraud.
Congress cannot motivate citizens to vote but it can remove needless restrictions on voter registration. House approval of the ''motor-voter'' bill would inspire the Senate to follow suit, set a high standard for bipartisanship and, not least, expand democracy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US); VOTING REQUIREMENTS AND VOTERS; REGISTRATION OF VOTERS; EDITORIALS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION VOTERS & VOTING (94%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROVALS (88%); ELECTION LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (74%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (72%); DRIVERS LICENSES (71%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM M THOMAS (56%); ROBERT HENRY 'ROBERT H' MICHEL (56%); 



740 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: OBSERVER;
Once Again Now

BYLINE: By Russell Baker

 BODY:
This week we had the budget. The budget is a big story in Washington, which is probably why we have it. To understand the budget, remember: The budget is not a budget. The budget is a story.
Naturally the news industry loves it. It sets up so many stories to get the news industry over the dull patches in the coming year. Examples:
''President Accuses Congress of Busting Budget.'' 
''Congress Accuses President of Budget Fakery.''
''G.O.P. Blames Dems for Budget Overruns.''
''Dems Charge G.O.P. With Etcetera . . .''
New Presidents innocent about Washington ways always ask: ''Why are we wasting time and energy on this budget rot? Let's forget it and do something useful.''
These Presidents are soon visited by delegations from the news industry explaining the facts of the Presidency. Fact One: Presidents who cut off the industry's budget story get 90,000 reporters looking for dirty pool in all 45,000 agencies for which every President is responsible.
Wouldn't the President rather waste energy on budget rot than read a daily rat-tat-tat of news stories about the Director of Superfluous Excess ignoring reports of a growing excess gap? And don't forget the Department of Bureaucratic Presentability: always plenty of scandal to be mined there, Mr. President, what with dozens of assistant secretaries appearing on television looking unpresentably barbered and tailored.
You get the idea. So do Presidents. They play along, and we get the annual budget story. Here are a few of the better story elements: 1. Silly revenue estimate: Revenue is the money the Government takes in. Budget writers have to guess how much the coming year's take will be. To get the story rolling, they guess absurdly high.
This leads the press to some of its favorite stories: (1) Democrats accuse President of cooking up ridiculously optimistic revenue estimates; (2) G.O.P. accuses Democrats of abusing beloved President; (3) etcetera ad infinitum, or at least ad January 1991 when it will start all over again.
It also sets up a yearlong series of infinitely tedious stories about revenue estimates being readjusted, and paves the way for the inevitable year-end disclosure that the January guess was miles off base.
In between, economics reporters and columnists grind out the same old material about factors - how these bozos love factors - that account for the slippage. (All Washington loves slippage, especially the Pentagon.) 2. Gramm-Rudman: Gramm and Rudman are two guys who had one of the dumber ideas of the era; to wit, that you could stop Congress from spending the country bankrupt if you just passed a law putting a limit on how much it could spend.
Naturally, Congress passed this law, since it offered a cheap and easy chance to come out against profligacy. Naturally, the President signed it. Naturally, President and Congress immediately invented ways to get around it, so as not to impede the headlong race toward ever higher debt.
For the press, the beauty part of Gramm-Rudman is the resulting gusher of technical stories about domestic programs that have to be cut to stay within Gramm-Rudman limits, of political stories about the President slashing domestic programs for the downtrodden middle class, and thousands of political stories about conservatives and liberals squabbling about who is an evil big spender and who is a revolting softie on Pentagon waste. 3. Off-budget items: ''Off-budget'' is Washington code talk and means, ''This baby is going to cost us the whole farm, but let's pretend it doesn't count.'' It is the President's and Congress's favorite way to avoid the Gramm-Rudman problem.
For instance, the staggering cost of the savings-and-loan bailout is kept ''off-budget'' by common agreement simply not to count it. This makes farce of stories about Gramm-Rudman and the size of budget deficit, which may be why the press doesn't pay it much heed. Why let awkward facts wipe out a good old story the public has come to know and love? 4. ''Read my lips'': Many tired but beloved stories flow from the President's promise not to raise taxes, which would be necessary if anybody were serious about conquering the infamous mountain of debt and dealing honestly with the bashable Japanese.
The most interesting potential story this year: how finaglers in White House and Congress will manage to continue avoiding an income-tax boost by using the constantly rising soak-the-downtrodden Social Security tax to pay the daily bills.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: G O P (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TAXATION; INCOME TAXES EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); WRITERS (78%); TAX LAW (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); LEGISLATION (71%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL



741 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: For Colombians in Queens, Time of Pain and Questions

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

 BODY:
In the boxcar restaurants and boisterous salsa-pumped bars of Queens, where the talk is all too often of bad things that happen to Colombians, conversations of the last few days have been more painful than usual, and sometimes more bitter.
First came news of the crash of Avianca Airlines Flight 52 and the loss of neighbors from Jackson Heights, Corona, and other parts of Queens where Colombian immigrants have established themselves in large and close-knit numbers.
 
Many Questions, Few Answers
Then came questions: How, so near to two airports, could the plane have run out of fuel? Why had airport controllers not given it permission to land in time? And why, after decades of violence and intermittent natural disasters, did another tragedy have to befall Colombians?
''It makes you feel like crying even if you had nothing to do with it,'' said Deifan Rodriguez, a tiny soft-spoken woman of 40, as she swabbed the floor of a tiny Jackson Heights grocery store. 
By their last rough estimates, the Colombian Consul General and community leaders count anywhere from 450,000 to 800,000 Colombian natives and their children living legally and illegally in the New York metropolitan area.
About 270,000 Colombians have immigrated legally since the 1950's, the Immigration and Naturalization Service says.
 
To Many, Flight Symbolized Success
Yet to listen in the convenience stores, nightclubs and churches of several Queens neighborhoods, it would seem that nearly everyone lost a relative, a friend, or a friend of a friend.
As the country's only nonstop to New York, the Avianca flight was especially familiar to Colombian New Yorkers. To many of the more recent immigrants, the plane trip home had been a prized symbol of economic success in the United States.
''Yesterday I almost couldn't work,'' Walter Segura, a 44-year-old taxi driver who often met the flight said late Saturday night at the counter of a bustling diner.
''It's almost like it happened to the rest of us,'' said Mr. Segura, a stout man in a blue jean jacket. ''I have suffered a lot - my mother died, and others - and in a country that has suffered from drugs and guerrilla war and everything, it makes you sensitive to things like this.''
 
A Familiar Pulling Together
Indeed, many in the Colombian community said the tragedy had pulled them together in a fashion that has grown sadly familiar.
In just the last five years, they recall the 1985 volcanic eruption that buried more than 20,000 in the mountain town of Armero - just weeks after leftist guerrillas killed 85 people, 11 of them Supreme Court justices, in an attack on the Palace of Justice in Bogota.
Since then the tidings have been of guerrilla attacks, economic troubles and, increasingly, killings and terrorism by the hugely powerful cocaine cartels of Medellin and Cali. In September it was the drug barons' murder of a popular Presidential candidate; a spate of Government ''war'' on the traffickers followed. Last month, traffickers from Medellin were blamed for the bombing of an Avianca flight from Bogota to Cali.
''With everything that has happened to the Colombians, then the plane, and then on the plane there was a guy with drugs!'' lamented Gilberto Garrido, proprietor of a Jackson Heights restaurant called La Pequena Colombia, or Little Colombia.
 
Accusations of Discrimination
Mr. Garrido, part of a ready chorus of Colombian-American voices, bemoaned what he described as widespread discrimination against Colombians here because of their homeland's status as the world's foremost producer of cocaine.
Not far away, at the Restaurante Mondongo, named for its tripe soup, a debate among the cook, a truck driver and two other men came to the dead-serious conclusion that drug-related discrimination had not only kept Avianca Flight 52 from a safe landing, but had delayed the delivery of victims' bodies from the coroner.
''I'm somebody who works 18 hours a day,'' offered Javier Trujillo, the restaurant's owner. ''What fault do I have that one guy in 150 on some plane was carrying some cocaine?''
Drug control agents in Queens also describe a picture at least more complicated than popular mythology would suggest.
Police officials say that while Colombians undoubtedly head major distribution operations and cocaine sales are prevalent in some areas where many Colombians live, the police arrest few street-level drug sellers who identify themselves as Colombians. Of some 300 people arrested on drug arrests in the last month in Jackson Heights and Elmhurst, 21 were Colombians, said Capt. Edward Lyons, commanding officer of the Queens Tactical Narcotics Task Force.
Far less noted than the drug connections of their homeland, community leaders say, is the vibrancy of the Colombian communities spread out from Queens across New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
Since Colombian immigration began to boom in the 1960's, high numbers of graduate students, professionals and skilled workers have stamped the commmunity as particularly middle class. Hard work, a traditional emphasis on education, and some of the street savvy of Colombian myth have colored in the profile.
Still, the capital of Colombia in New York remains a precarious outpost, mostly liberated from the old denizens of Queens but hardly secure from the influences of other immigrants.
The epicenter of the Colombian New York community is not called Little Bogota, perhaps, because the calenos from Cali, the paisas from Medellin and the costenos from coastal cities like Barranquilla and Cartagena would not have it.
There are separate associations of Colombian professionals, doctors, dentists, artists and salesmen.
''Our community has grown so much that it has become hard to hold together,'' said Dr. Guillermo Davila, a dentist who is head of Queens's Colombian Civic Center. Of the outpouring of sentiment at the plane crash, he added: ''Things like this, although you would like them not to happen, bring us together. My phone is always ringing with people saying, 'Whose fault was it? What happened? We have to do something!' ''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''With everything that has happened to the Colombian, then the plane, and then on the plane there was a guy with drugs!'' lamented Gilberto Garrido, proprietor of a Jackson Heights, Queens, restaurant called La Pequena Colombia, or Little Colombia.; ''Things like this, although you would like them not to happen, bring us together,'' Dr. Guillermo Davila said. (NYT/Sara Krulwich) (pg. B1); map of Queens showing location of Jackson Heights (NYT) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (78%); 

COMPANY: AVIANCA AIRLINES (61%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AVIANCA AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA; NEW YORK CITY; QUEENS (NYC)

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; COLOMBIAN-AMERICANS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CONVENIENCE STORES (72%); CHILDREN (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (69%); TERRORISM (69%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); RETAILERS (67%); CITIES (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM



742 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Alarmed as an Old and Trusted Bank Falters

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Jan. 30

 BODY:
Financial troubles at one of Connecticut's oldest and largest banks, Connecticut Bank and Trust, have brought home to people across the state the harsh reality of New England's economic downturn.
After months of industry rumors and troubling reports, the bank's Boston-based parent, the Bank of New England Corporation, announced this month that it had lost $1.2 billion in 1989 on bad real-estate loans. It would have to sell billions of dollars in assets to stay afloat.
The news was little short of a bombshell. After 176 years as a linchpin of the state's economy, Connecticut Bank and Trust -and its 160 branches, all marked by the understated blue CBT logo - suddenly seemed less secure. 
CBT began losing deposits. In the most public withdrawals, municipal finance officials from West Hartford to Norwalk withdrew millions in public funds. Some officials began questioning the state's system to protect public funds, should the bank fail. State banking officials issued a statement of confidence and urged people not to overreact.
''It's painful,'' said Antoinette J. Anderson, the director of finance in Windsor, which removed CBT from its list of banks eligible to compete for the $10 million to $20 million in tax revenues and capital funds that the town offers out for deposit. ''But when you have this much public awareness of problems, the public perception is that funds could be in danger.''
 
Assessing the Problem
What has also colored the reactions is the often intensely held view here that Connecticut is and should be insulated from the corrupting taint of its larger neighbors. In such a light, the plight of CBT, which completed its merger with the Bank of New England only five years ago, has almost taken on the tones of a morality play, a warning against the danger of out-of-state liaisons.
''We had a perfectly fine bank here,'' said Lewis Mandell, a professor of finance at the University of Connecticut and a former Federal bank regulator. ''The feeling is that it was the merger with the Massachusetts-based banks - the expansion - that caused the problem.''
The native feeling that CBT - and by reflection, Connecticut - may not be as bad off as the Bank of New England's numbers indicate is bolstered by economists and analysts who track the banking industry. They said that while banks across New England have suffered from defaulted loans in an overbuilt real-estate market, the hardest hit areas have so far been concentrated in Massachussetts and farther north, where CBT's corporate siblings do their business, rather than in Connecticut, where CBT is the company's only franchise.
''There's no question that the Connecticut economy has slowed significantly, but at this juncture the perception is that the problems are not as deep,'' said Don J. Kauth, an analyst who follows the banking industry at the First Albany Corporation, a stock brokerage concern.
 
Liabilities for Bad Loans
What remains unknown until Federal auditors finish their work on the parent company's books over the next few weeks is whether and how much CBT may share liabilities for bad loans made outside the state and the extent to which losses in deposits from Connecticut towns or other clients may be aggravating the wounds.
Marcia Ryan, a spokeswoman for the Bank of New England, said the idea that geography would make a difference in how the drama plays out was simply false. She declined to provide any total of lost deposits.
''The issue is not Connecticut vs. Massachusetts; it's real-estate lending across New England,'' she said.
What is also uncertain is how much of CBT may be left when the Bank of New England completes its assets sale.
On Monday, for instance, the parent bank, which has said it must raise $6 billion in cash to stem the losses, sold its entire consumer credit-card business - with nearly half of it in Connecticut - to Citicorp for $828 million.
For some municipal officials who have tax money to invest and legal liabilities of their own to watch out for, those uncertainties have overwhelmed any loyalty they may feel to the bank as a longtime local presence.
 
Investments Cut Back
''We're not going to make speculative investments,'' said Andrew F. Urban, the director of financial services and treasurer for the town of West Hartford, which gradually cut back its investments with CBT until last weekend, when a decision was made not to renew any of the $25 million to $50 million in funds that had been occasionally on deposit with the bank.
''When we started to hear about large loan write-offs, we just started to take a more prudent position,'' he said.
One concern cited by Mr. Urban and other town officials is how great a net the state would provide municipalities if the bank did collapse. Current laws, for example, require every bank in the state to set aside 3 percent of the value of the money held for state and local governments in a ''collateral pool.'' If any bank folded, the pool would be used to reimburse government agencies for the value of their deposits.
The problem, the municipal investors said, is that while the pool may be adequate for a small bank, it would not likely be large enough for CBT, which is the second largest commercial bank in the state by assets, according to the State Banking Department. The pool is currently put at about $52 million.
 
Guarantee on Deposits
CBT had $10.3 billion in assets and $7.5 billion in total deposits as of last June 30, state figures showed. The Connecticut National Bank, the state's largest commercial bank, had $12.1 billion in assets and $7.2 billion in deposits. All bank deposits in Connecticut, whether from municipal investors or private individuals, are guaranteed up to $100,000 by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
''This is something very new for us,'' said Jack E. Miller, finance director in Norwalk and head of the state chapter of the Government Finance Officers Association. He said Norwalk removed CBT from its bid list on $10 million to $20 million in funds two weeks ago.
''I suspect that most of us have had long relationships with CBT, very positive relationships,'' Mr. Miller said. ''It's been very unsettling.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Municipal finance officials in Connecticut have recently withdrawn millions in public funds from the troubled Connecticut Bank and Trust. ''We're not going to make speculative investments,'' said Andrew F. Urban, treasurer for the town of West Hartford. (NYT/Steve Miller)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTBC (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NORTHEAST USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT BANK & TRUST CO (85%); BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT BANK & TRUST CO; BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; NEW ENGLAND STATES (US)

SUBJECT: LOCAL GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK CHRISTIAN PIERRET (57%); 



743 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: New York Assembly Chiefs Offer $62 Million Hospital Rescue Plan

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 30

 BODY:
Signaling that the rescue of the state's troubled hospitals will be a legislative priority, the Democratic leadership of the State Assembly today proposed spending $62 million to ease the crisis caused by crowding in emergency rooms, drug abuse, AIDS and increased labor costs.
The money would be pumped into the state's complex Medicaid reimbursement formula, which also controls private insurance reimbursement rates. Because of the impact on private insurance payments, and because state Medicaid contributions must be matched by an equal amount from local governments and by twice as much from the Federal Government, the new state money would leverage a total of $540 million for hospitals, the Democrats said.
Spokesmen for the state's 262 acute-care hospitals reacted jubilantly to the proposal, which was announced by Mel Miller, the Assembly Speaker, and Richard N. Gottfried, the chairman of the Assembly Health Committee. The hospital leaders encouraged the Senate and the Cuomo administration to back the Assembly initiative, but those two corners of the legislative triangle have been more reluctant to support major infusions of money for hospitals. 
 
Budget Hurdle to Cross
With the state's three-year hospital reimbursement formula due to expire on Dec. 31, the Legislature must deal with the issue this year, but any major spending proposal must overcome pressures created by the state's tight budget. Mr. Miller did not specify what changes he would make in the Governor's proposed budget.
The state's two largest hospital organizations, the Hospital Association of New York State and the Greater New York Hospital Association, have lobbied for changing the base year in the state's reimbursement formula from 1981 to a more recent year.
The base year is the year used by the Department of Health as the starting point for determining hospital costs, with yearly increases for inflation.
The two big hospital organizations argue that new developments affecting the hospital industry, like the cost of treating AIDS patients and the dire shortage of nurses, led to projected losses by New York hospitals of more than $1 billion in 1989.
Mr. Miller said today that changing the base year would reward hospitals that had done little to control costs. He said he preferred to direct money to needy hospitals by tinkering with the existing formula.
His proposal would distribute $50 million to all hospitals, based on the number of beds in each. The rest of the money would be targeted for hospitals with skyrocketing labor costs, a growing volume of AIDS-related and drug-related admissions, increased use of emergency rooms and growing costs for the disposal of medical waste.
Mr. Miller's plan also would gradually increase the cap on Medicaid reimbursements for outpatient visits to $75 from $60 by 1992.
 
Community Clinics Supported
Mr. Miller applauded the goals of Dr. David Axelrod, the State Health Commissioner, in seeking to move the delivery of primary health care away from hospitals and into community clinics. But he said the state had been slow to accomplish those goals.
''Until it's a reality, you have to reimburse hospitals adequately, because right now they are the provider of health care,'' Mr. Miller said. ''We can't wait for the millennium.''
Peter Slocum, a spokesman for Dr. Axelrod, said the administration had little philosophical difference with Mr. Miller's proposal. He said the Governor expected to disclose his hospital reimbursement proposal soon.
Although the hospital associations prefer a change in the base year, they seemed happy with what Mr. Miller proposed to hand them. ''I'm just beside myself,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association. ''This is probably the best shot in the arm the hospitals have had in three years.''
On another health-related issue today, Dr. Axelrod said he did not expect the Cuomo administration to submit legislation this year for a system of no-fault medical malpractice insurance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: GREATER NEW YORK HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (81%); HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (58%); HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION OF NEW YORK STATE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); HOSPITALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICAID (TITLE XIX OF FED MEDICARE LEGISLATION); RATES; HEALTH INSURANCE; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; EMERGENCY MEDICAL TREATMENT; LABOR POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); AIDS & HIV (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAID (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (89%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (78%); MEDICAL WASTE & BIOHAZARDS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); ACUTE CARE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (77%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; MILLER, MELVIN (SPEAKER) DAVID AXELROD (58%); 



744 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Lessons

BYLINE: By Edward B. Fiske

 BODY:
The assignment for Henry Harms's ninth graders at the Great Hollow Intermediate School in Smithtown, L.I., was to create a model Hovercraft that would travel at least eight feet, suspended in air, over a row of magnets.
Jessica DeHart decided to propel her vehicle, made of Styrofoam with magnets affixed to the bottom, by soaking a Popsicle stick in hot water, bending it into a propeller and winding it up with a rubber band. ''I thought this would make for a smooth ride,'' she explained.
Eugene Jang used a slingshot device because, he reasoned, it would be ''faster than a propeller.'' Ed Enterlin tried using a small motor, found that it was too heavy and opted for a house fan that blew air into a sail fabricated from a garbage bag. 
''There was no single best solution,'' Mr. Harms said. ''The designs depended on what the students wanted their vehicles to be able to do.''
Mr. Harms teaches technology education - an updated version of industrial arts, or shop. Instead of taking home yet another generation of handmade bookcases and pencil holders, destined perhaps to remain unused, many of today's students are cloning plants, sending messages with lasers and using pint-sized wind tunnels to figure out why the rear windows of station wagons are usually dirty.
The transformation of industrial arts into technology education reflects the broader shift from an industrial to an information-driven economy, but it is more than a curricular facelift. Implicit in the teaching of technology are ideas that could serve as models for other academic subjects: the possibility of multiple solutions, the value of group learning and the notion that students can be inspired to learn just about anything if they see that it will help them solve an interesting problem.
The case for teaching about technology is strong. Fabricated objects play an increasingly important role not only in the lives of individuals, but also in political and social decisions. The chemical leak at Bhopal and the nuclear accident at Chernobyl are evidence that disasters formerly attributed mainly to ''acts of God'' are now increasingly manmade.
''Technology is the new basic,'' said Robert Fixler, director of the Bureau of Technology Education for New York City public schools.
Approximately 40 states require teaching about technology. One of the most aggressive has been New York, which in 1984 started requiring local school districts to give junior high school students a year of technology education and to offer pre-engineering courses as electives in senior high schools.
Teaching about technology poses a challenge to schools because it does not fit into the traditional academic categories.
For example, science - the search for the rules that govern the natural world - has absolute standards. Students' answers are usually either right or wrong. By contrast, technology - the study of how people reshape nature - forces students and teachers alike to deal in the gray area of value judgments, tradeoffs and multiple solutions.
At Canarsie High School in Brooklyn, Myron B. Rock, who supervises engineering courses, drives home these points by asking five-member teams of students to design a portable shelter that would keep five survivors of a plane crash alive for three days.
To carry out the assignment, students must delve into thermodynamics and the properties of various types of insulation and then brainstorm such decisions as whether the survivors are better served by thicker insulation or more living space. ''We decided that we could make it big enough to stand and still have thick enough insulation,'' said Brian Cobham, a senior.
Most school assignments have students working on their own and competing against other individuals for grades, but the study of technology is biased toward groups. ''It's most like the real world, where you work and solve problems collectively,'' said Kenneth M. Ford, a teacher at Sauquoit Valley Central High School near Utica, N.Y. He divides students into teams to design, test and evaluate an electric-eye mechanism that will sort clear and colored marbles.
Technology education even turns traditional ''hands on'' education on its head. Science laboratories, for example, are usually intended to show the application of information learned in class. In technology classes students start with a problem and then gather the information they need to solve it.
Implicit in this approach is a new role for the teacher as the manager of a learning process, not the source of answers. ''With good technological exercises, the teacher does not know all the good answers in advance,'' Mr. Harms said.
In his 1963 book ''The Two Cultures,'' the English scientist and writer C. P. Snow spoke of the gap between the worlds of literature and science. Perhaps in technology education - an arena where factual knowledge and value judgments must be dealt with simultaneously - educators have at last found a way to bridge this gap.

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SMITHTOWN (NY)

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDUCATION (SECONDARY); SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (87%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); NEW ECONOMY (67%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (66%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (60%); 

PERSON: FISKE, EDWARD B; HARMS, HENRY HENRY HARMS (82%); 



745 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 7, Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: FOOD NOTES

BYLINE: By Florence Fabricant

 BODY:

Tomato Juice, Anyone?
''Orange juice is going to get expensive,'' said Dan Shafer, director of communications for Coca-Cola Foods, which makes Minute Maid Orange Juice products. The freeze in Florida at the end of December reduced the crop by 30 percent, driving prices up. In some Manhattan supermarkets the price for half-gallons of not-from-concentrate orange juice is $3.59 and expected to rise further.
While the freeze caused a shortage of juice made in the United States, producers usually make up for shortfalls by buying concentrate from Brazil. But Brazilian producers have taken advantage of the situation and increased their wholesale prices, from $1.37 a pound before the freeze to $1.92 a pound last week. 
Dr. Bob Behr, economic research director for the Florida Department of Citrus, said the full impact of the price increases will probably not be felt until late February. Prices had been reduced in October, making the increases appear that much more dramatic, he noted.
''Retail prices are due to go up around 20 percent,'' he said, ''but on the basis of yearly averages, we expect that orange juice will cost about 8.5 percent more this year than last year.''
Prices for grapefruit juice will also increase, but not as sharply, he said.
 
Abundance From Chile
Now for some good news. Thanks to a very large harvest in Chile, fruits like peaches, nectarines, plums, apricots and cherries are more abundant and better quality, with more juice and flavor, than ever before.
''It's like summertime here with all the fruit,'' said Joe Doria, an owner of Grace's Marketplace, 1237 Third Avenue (71st Street) in Manhattan. And prices, often $1.29 to $1.99 a pound in supermarkets, are also down.
Fruit labeled ''tree-ripened'' is likely to cost around $1 a pound more but will be sweeter. Some markets have excellent fruit that is fully matured, at $4 to $5 a pound.
But there is also some more bad news. The Florida freeze affected some vegetable crops, reducing supplies, driving prices up and diminishing quality. Eggplants, tomatoes, zucchini, green peppers, cucumbers, green beans and arugula are very high at the moment. Corn on the cob is 75 cents to 85 cents an ear.
''The effect on tomatoes was horrendous,'' said Rob Bildner, owner of RLB Food Distributors in West Caldwell, N.J. ''The wholesale price has more than tripled. Comparatively speaking, it makes the Israeli tomatoes a better buy, since they are now only a few cents more a pound than Florida tomatoes and far better quality.''
The next harvest, and lower prices, will not appear in the markets for another four to eight weeks, he said.
 
Italian to Go
Restaurants are opening retail food stores right and left. The latest to sell prepared food is Barocco in TriBeCa.
The Barocco Alimentari, 297 Church Street (at Walker Street), has a limited but varied menu of well-seasoned Italian dishes. Among them are a salad of fennel and Parmesan cheese ($6 a pound), tomatoes and mozzarella with basil ($6.50 a pound), artichokes vinaigrette ($2.75 each), roast pork ($10 a pound), lentils with sausage ($6.50 a pound), meat lasagna ($10 for a portion serving two) and large half-moon spinach ravioli stuffed with ricotta and Swiss chard ($10 a pound).
Stupendous hearth-baked breads are $3.50 each, a splendid cream-filled berry tart on a cookie crust is $3 a portion, and a refreshing but anatomical-sounding mixture of navel and blood orange segments is $6 a pound. The shop is open Monday to Friday, 9 A.M. to 7 P.M.; Saturday, 10 A.M. to 7 P.M. Telephone 212-431-1456.
The shop recently opened by the restaurant Arcadia, called Out of Arcadia, has already closed in the Citicorp Center. The owner, Anne Rosenzweig, said the closing was only until she can find larger quarters.
Another restaurant, Chez Louis, is hoping to open Chez Louis to Go next to the restaurant on Second Avenue and 54th Street.
 
German Delicacies
Whether the crumbling of the Berlin Wall and other sections of the Iron Curtain will inspire a renaissance of German and East European cooking in this country remains to be seen. But a group of young American chefs in Washington, the World Capital Chefs Society, has decided to be on the cutting edge. Led by Clive DuVal of Tila's in Chevy Chase, Md., and Kep Sweeney of 21 Federal, the group is holding a German buffet dinner on Sunday at 3 P.M. at Adirondacks in Union Station in Washington.
On the menu are fresh eel soup, pork roulade on red cabbage, braised rabbit, sauerkraut with pork knuckles, potato pancakes, pea puree, plum strudel and chocolate torte. The event will benefit Exodus, an organization that works with homeless children. Tickets are $50 each; call 301-652-8452.
 
A Video for Home Wine Makers
A NEW video, ''Making Fine Fruit Wine at Home,'' with James Barry, who owns Dover Winery in Dover Plains, N.Y., offers step-by-step instructions for turning berries, peaches, apples and even bananas into wine.
Mr. Barry demonstrates how to press the fruit, use a hydrometer and a fermentation lock, test for acidity, rack the wine and bottle and cork it. He supplies a list of ingredients and the sources for them and for the equipment.
The 45-minute video is $37.45, including U.P.S. shipping, from Videocraft Classics, 1790 Broadway, Suite 701, New York, N.Y. 10019; 212-246-9849.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FOOD NOTES (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE SA (91%); COCA-COLA CO (58%); FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF CITRUS (56%); FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF CITRUS (56%); 

SUBJECT: FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (79%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (78%); BEVERAGE PRICES (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (77%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RESTAURANTS (67%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE



746 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
Alan Greenspan told Congress that the chance of a recession had diminished markedly since spring. His comments appeared to dampen hopes that the Federal Reserve would move soon to cut interest rates further. [Page A1.] 
A man who claims to have invented the intermittent windshield wiper won a patent-infringement case against Ford. [D1.]
The Government unsealed an indictment against a fugitive financier and offered a $200,000 reward for his capture. [D1.]
Car and truck production in the U.S. and Canada will climb during the rest of the first quarter if Big Three auto makers adhere to production schedules. [D5.]
 
 
 
Companies
Peter A. Cohen resigned as chairman and chief executive of Shearson Lehman Hutton in a move that reflects the continuing turmoil on Wall Street. [A1.]
American Brands said five inside directors had resigned in order to make its board structure similar to that of other large corporations, where the outside directors are a majority. [D1.]
The Roy Rogers chain was sold to Hardee's for $365 million in cash. It had been owned by Marriott. [D4.]
UAL's stock plunged $15.50, to $121, to its lowest level since a $6.8 billion buyout bid collapsed in October. [D4.]
Connecticut Bank and Trust has financial problems. It is one of the state's oldest and largest banks. [B1.]
Coca-Cola's profits reached a historic high last year of $1.7 billion. Fourth-quarter earnings more than tripled. [D20.]
Moving aggressively after a recent court decision, Genetics Institute fired another volley in its battle with Amgen. [D5.]
An Eastern Air Lines committee said it had lost faith in the airline's management. [D4.]
 
 
 
Markets
Prices of Treasury securities closed higher after a volatile session. Bonds were bolstered by a report on CNN that Mikhail S. Gorbachev would step down as chairman of the Communist Party. [D1.] Yields remained mostly flat on C.D.'s and money market accounts. [D17.]
Pessimism about stocks involved in deals depressed prices, and the Dow Jones industrial average fell 10.14 points, to 2,543.24. [D8.]
The dollar jumped against major currencies after the report that Soviet President Gorbachev would resign as Communist Party chairman. [D18.] Sugar futures prices fell sharply. [D18.]
 
International
The president of the Bundesbank bank said that under the right conditions the West German and East German marks could be gradually linked. [D2.]
 
Technology
The satellite television industry is counterattacking with some success against video pirates. [D6.]
I.B.M. and Motorola announced a joint venture to make it possible for salespeople and other roving employees to reach their computers at headquarters by radio waves. [D6.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Mutual fund investors have begun to withdraw money from equity funds, fund officials said. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
In an unusual campaign, Intel is bypassing its customers to persuade computer users that they would be better off with its more powerful 386SX chip than its older 286 chip. Advertising. [D1.]
The Japanese do not mean to offend, say the new breed of Japan-watchers. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (54%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (51%); MSI (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); CONNECTICUT BANK & TRUST CO (55%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); AMGEN INC (54%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (53%); INTEL CORP (51%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%); COMMUNIST PARTY (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); RESIGNATIONS (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (86%); CURRENCIES (85%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); BONDS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); AIRLINES (74%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (72%); PATENTS (72%); PATENT LAW (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); FUTURES (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); INDICTMENTS (71%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (66%); SUGAR MARKETS (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); JOINT VENTURES (50%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); 



747 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Up After Hectic Day

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
A rumor from Moscow overtook news reports from Washington in the credit markets yesterday and prices of Treasury securities closed higher after a volatile session.
The rumor - a report on Cable News Network that Mikhail S. Gorbachev would step down as chairman of the Communist Party as early as next week - helped to reverse a sharp early slide in prices that followed testimony before Congress by Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. In the foreign exchange markets, the dollar also jumped against major currencies after the report. [Page D18.] The suggestion that the Soviet President might give up his party post was interpreted as a sign that reforms and democratization in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe might be jeopardized. That encouraged some market participants to buy dollars or United States bonds. 
''Political events in Eastern Europe and Russia have been an important reason for the market's six-week decline,'' said Nancy J. Kimelman, chief economist at Technical Data, a Boston-based concern that provides research for institutional clients. ''It makes sense that a pullback from glasnost would boost U.S. bond and currency prices.''
 
Sharp Gains for Nabisco
The high-yield ''junk bond'' market was also volatile, and prices of RJR Nabisco bonds posted sharp gains after plummeting for two sessions.
In his remarks before the Joint Economic Committee, Mr. Greenspan called the economy's sluggish performance in the fourth quarter a ''temporary hesitation in the continuing economic expansion.'' He added that the current 4.5 percent inflation rate was too high.
Mr. Greenspan's comments underscored a point that has become increasingly obvious in recent weeks, economists and other people who watch the Federal Reserve said.
''Our interpretation of his comments is that the Fed will wait to see further evidence of economic contraction before easing monetary policy further,'' said Maria Fiorini Ramirez, a managing director at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
Prices of Treasury bonds and notes fell as news reports of Mr. Greenspan's testimony flashed across trading screens. By early afternoon, the 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 had fallen about a half-point, to yield 8.61 percent, its highest level since June.
One government bond trader who asked not to be named said: ''For better or worse, the rumor smoked out a lot of people who were betting the market would go lower.''
But by late in the day, after the Gorbachev rumor had spread, the 8 1/8 percent bonds were offered at a price of 95 1/2, up 7/8 of a point from their lows of the day, to yield 8.54 percent.
Among Treasury note issues, the 7 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 95 30/32 in late trading, up 1/4 point, to yield 8.49 percent. And the 8 1/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 99 23/32, up 2/32, to yield 8.28 percent.
 
Easing in Bill Rates
Treasury bill rates eased slightly. In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.74 percent, down a basis point, or hundredth of a point. Six-month bill rates fell by a like amount, to a late offered rate of 7.70 percent. And one-year bill rates dipped by 4 basis points, to a late offered rate of 7.51 percent.
A major source of nervousness in the bond market lately - concern about absorbing huge quantities of new Treasury notes and bonds - will be pushed out in the open this afternoon, when the Treasury announces the size of its quarterly refunding auctions.
Worries that buyers, especially from Japan, will be scarce have been a big reason behind the recent increase in interest rates. But some analysts say that yields are now at levels where investor interest at the auctions could be strong.
''Long-term interest rates are as high now as they were in June, when the Fed began to ease monetary policy,'' said David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities International. ''If the Japanese are smart they will be here, given the retreat in prices we have seen.''
 
High-Yield Bonds Recover
Prices of high-yield junk bonds, which for the last two days had been in full retreat, recovered smartly yesterday.
The biggest gains were recorded by RJR Nabisco bonds, which were battered on Friday and again Monday. Among RJR issues, the 13.71 percent payment-in-kind debentures due in 2009 rose by nearly 5 points, to 70.
''A lot of people came in here looking to buy bonds because they thought the selloff was overdone,'' said Peter Karches, head of high-yield trading and sales at Morgan Stanley & Company.
In the investment-grade corporate bond market, the ARCO Chemical Company offered $225 million of 30-year debentures through an underwriting group led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
The 9.80 percent debentures, which mature Feb. 1, 2020, were priced at $99.355 to yield 9.867 percent, 1.24 percentage points over the prevailing yield on the 8 1/8 percent Treasury bonds of 2019 at the time of pricing.
The issue, which is noncallable for life, is rated A-2 by Moody's Investors Service and A by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Traders in the secondary market for corporate bonds said that prices of most issues were unchanged.
In the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds, market participants said that prices of most actively traded issues eased by about 1/8 of a point.

GRAPHIC: Graph of treasury yield curve (source: Technical Data International) (NYT) (pg. D17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (55%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KRAFT NABISCO (55%); PRICES OF TREASURY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; GOVERNMENT BONDS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BONDS (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); INFLATION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); 



748 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Savings Fugitive Indicted; U.S. Offers $200,000 Reward

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30

 BODY:
Prosecutors call it the latest chapter in the Maryland savings and loan scandal, which shook financial markets in the summer of 1985, gave the country vivid pictures of depositors lined up in front of savings associations and became a grim harbinger of the nationwide scandal to come.
It involves a fugitive financier and former owner of one of the largest of the Maryland institutions, a reward of $200,000 for his capture, wiretaps, the interception of a $500,000 wire transfer to an accomplice and the collapse of one of the country's largest real estate partnership networks.
The United States Attorney in Baltimore today announced the indictment of the fugitive, Tom J. Billman, and two other business associates, who controlled the Community Savings and Loan Association of Bethesda, Md., and the $1.2 billion Equity Programs Investment Corporation. Both collapsed in the summer of 1985, creating losses estimated to total more than $400 million. 
Mr. Billman and the others are accused of looting Community Savings of $28 million and salting those funds away in Swiss bank accounts.
In December 1988, Mr. Billman fled the country, the Government says. It calls him a fugitive from justice. The Justice Department said it would offer a reward of $200,000 to anyone who supplies information leading to his arrest.
''This is being done now in the hope that some banker or professional that might have recently worked with Billman or knows where he is might come forward,'' said Breckinridge L. Wilcox, the United States Attorney in Baltimore.
Mr. Wilcox conceded that the Government was not sure of Mr. Billman's whereabouts. ''But we know he is somewhere in Europe and keeping a very low profile,'' he said.
The indictment of Mr. Billman is the fourth brought by either state or Federal officials against operators and owners of now defunct or acquired Maryland savings and loan associations, Mr. Wilcox and other Government officials said.
Like their counterparts in Texas, Oklahoma and Colorado, the Maryland collapses were the product of lax regulation, poorly trained examiners, high-risk investments, mismanagement and outright fraud. The result was an alarming cost to investors and taxpayers.
While the total cost of the Maryland crisis - $370 million - is small compared with the $159 billion price tag of the national crisis, it nonetheless has been painful for many.
Lloyd W. Jones, director of the Maryland Deposit Insurance Fund, said that only in November had all insured depositors at Maryland savings associations finally been paid off. And he added that the fate of $30 million in uninsured deposits has not yet been decided.
''But with Billman, I think you have the last of the real big money people,'' Mr. Jones said.
 
Real Estate Collapse
The collapse of Community Savings and Equity Programs reached far beyond Maryland. In the early 1980's, Mr. Billman took what was once a sound financial idea and built it into a house of cards that collapsed when the Texas economy plunged.
Equity Programs' basic business was to form limited partnerships by raising funds from investors like doctors, lawyers and dentists and buying single-family homes, particularly a developer's model homes.
''It was basically a sound idea,'' Mr. Wilcox said, noting that the partnerships would rent the model homes back to the builder and then sell them, at a considerable profit, when the builder had finished the development. ''But it was predicated on the hope that housing prices would continue to rise,'' Mr. Wilcox added.
When the oil economy collapsed, so did the viability of the partnerships, and to meet mortgage payments Mr. Billman used his Community Savings, which he bought in 1982, and began advancing large unsecured loans to the 357 partnerships.
 
'Could Not Rent Them'
''Many of the houses were just vacant; they could not rent them out and they were vandalized,'' Mr. Wilcox said.
Beginning in 1984, the indictment says, Mr. Billman entered into a conspiracy with Clayton C. McCuiston, president of Community Savings and 20 percent owner of Equity Programs, and Barbara A. McKinney, legal counsel to Community Savings, ''to divert over $106 million'' to cover financing needs at Equity Programs and for their own use.
In all, the indictment charges that Mr. Billman paid himself almost $28 million.
When regulators shut Community Savings they estimated that the losses would total more than $100 million. But losses went far beyond the savings and loan. When Equity Programs defaulted on its $1.2 billion in mortgages, losses reverberated into the banking industry, the savings and loan industry and the mortgage insurance industry. Some put the final price at almost $400 million.
 
A Sealed Indictment
After a three-year investigation, a grand jury in Maryland indicted Mr. Billman and his two former associates in December but agreed to seal the indictment to give the Government time to find and extradite him.
Because the hunt was unsuccessful, the Government decided to unseal the indictment and offer the reward, Mr. Billman said.
Mr. Wilcox said that Mr. Billman was still active ''in several business deals,'' and that investigators had uncovered through the use of a wiretap a plan by Mr. Billman to wire $500,000 from a European bank to an account that Ms. McKinney had in a Detroit bank.
''We have reason to believe he is living on more than $20 million of Community's depositors' money,'' Mr. Wilcox said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SWISS BANK & TRUST CORP LTD (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSN (BETHESDA, MD); EQUITY PROGRAMS INVESTMENT CORP

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; REWARDS; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS SAVINGS & LOANS (94%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (75%); ARRESTS (74%); WIRE TRANSFERS (71%); WIRETAPPING (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; BILLMAN, TOM J; MCKINNEY, BARBARA A; MCCUISTON, CLAYTON C TOM J BILLMAN (94%); 



749 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Does Japan Play Fair?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
THE Japanese do not mean to offend, say the new breed of Japan-watchers, whose revisionist views on international trade and finance have become fashionable from Capitol Hill to the Commerce Department. But the Japanese hardly understand what is meant by free markets and are not about to be converted by the Heritage Foundation. Rather than rage across the cultural abyss, the revisionists say, it would be in everyone's interest for America to insist on a fair share of the international market and let the Japanese figure out the least unpleasant way to accommodate the demands.
The revisionists have a point, says Yoshi Tsurumi, a professor of international business at Baruch College in New York. But in the latest issue of World Policy Journal, Mr. Tsurumi argues that the point is out of date. Long a nation of self-sacrificing workaholics, ''Japan is rapidly becoming a consumer-oriented democracy on the U.S. model,'' he says. 
Revisionists believe that Japan is run by ''Japan Inc.,'' a partnership of giant export-minded enterprises and Government bureaucrats that defends producers against the interests of consumers and guarantees that foreigners will never get an even break.
From this perspective, it makes little sense to fight to lower the formal barriers that block imports at the dock. Japan's bureaucratic-industrial complex will always manage to undermine the spirit of open commerce. The only international agreements likely to make a difference are the ones that manage trade, assuring American semiconductor manufacturers a given percentage of the Japanese market, or limiting exports of Japanese cars to so many million a year. But as Mr. Tsurumi points out, facts have an irritating way of contradicting the most elegant theories. Since 1985 Japan's immovable trade surplus has moved from 4.2 to 3.2 percent of gross national product. West Germany's surplus, by contrast, rose to 6.6 percent from 4.5 percent in the same four years.
Even more striking is the change in composition of Japanese imports. Manufactured goods amounted to just 22 percent of Japan's total import bill in 1980. Nine years later, the figure had risen to 61 percent - a higher percentage than, for example, Italy, which has a weaker technological base and is far closer to self-sufficiency in food and energy.
Much of the growth of imports, Mr. Tsurumi concedes, has come from Japanese companies, which moved offshore in the 1980's to cut costs. But that is hardly a reason to criticize. Japanese manufacturers are helping to develop low-wage, capital-poor economies in southern Asia the way American multinationals helped to industrialize South Korea and Taiwan and Brazil in the 1970's. Today, American-based companies generate a quarter of America's imports. In any case, Mr. Tsurumi notes, foreign companies have hardly been excluded from Japan's import boom. Dozens of foreign companies, from Schick to Texas Instruments to American Family Insurance, have gained large, profitable niches in the Japanese market.
And contrary to conventional wisdom, foreigners who cannot lick the Japanese at the marketing game are welcome to join them. Merck took over two Japanese pharmaceutical houses in 1985; Federal Express bought two local express-mail businesses in 1988. The only formidable barriers to foreign ownership of Japanese companies are the absurdly high price-earnings multiples at which they trade.
Why is Japan Inc., the mighty union of Mitsui, Mitsubishi and friends, allowing all this to happen? In part because the alliance between Japanese corporations and the Japanese Government has never been as seamless as Americans believed. In part because Japanese multinationals have grown so rich in cash that control of bank credit no longer assures Government bureaucrats the last word on corporate strategies. But mainly, Mr. Tsurumi suggests, because the alliance is under great pressure from Japanese consumers, who no longer believe it is necessary to live in rabbit hutches to sustain the strength of the nation.
Until the last few years, a combination of electoral gerrymandering and the best elected officials that corporate money could buy effectively denied Japan's urban majority a strong say in the Government. But bribery scandals have put the ruling Liberal Democratic Party coalition on the defensive. And the increasing frustrations of urban life have galvanized Japan's long-suffering ''salaryman'' to action.
That does not mean the Japanese will soon stop worrying about productivity and join the no-money-down generation. But it does suggest that Japan is almost ready to play by the rules of open competition. Are we?

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (58%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); MARKET SHARE (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (66%); IMPORT CONTROLS (65%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; TSURUMI, YOSHI (PROF) YOSHI TSURUMI (85%); 



750 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Panel to Study Move by Campeau

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30

 BODY:
Representative Jack Brooks said today that the House Judiciary Committee, which he heads, would review the bankruptcy of the American retailing operations of the Campeau Corporation and examine the need for legislation to restrict corporate takeovers.
The Texas Democrat's remarks, at the end of the first of several hearings into Campeau by his Economic and Commercial Law Subcommittee, suggest that Congress may look for new ways to stem the growth of takeovers and leveraged buyouts. Previous efforts to do so were unsuccessful.
''It is time for Congress to seriously assess whether legislation is needed in a number of areas just in the leveraging of corporate America,'' Mr. Brooks said.
He said he could foresee possible changes in bankruptcy, securities and tax laws designed to inhibit such buyouts, takeovers financed with borrowed money and a practice that became widespread in the financial boom of the late 1980's. In today's weaker economy, companies like Campeau are being crippled by interest payments on debt.
At the hearing, state officials, union leaders and economists discussed the $7.5 billion bankruptcy declared earlier this month by Campeau's Allied Stores Corporation and Federated Department Stores Inc. units.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CAMPEAU CORP (91%); MACY'S INC (84%); ALLIED STORES CORP (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAMPEAU CORP; ALLIED STORES CORP; FEDERATED DEPARTMENT STORES INC; HOUSE COMMITTEE ON JUDICIARY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; BANKRUPTCIES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAKEOVERS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); RETAILERS (78%); COMMERCIAL LAW (78%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, JACK (REPR) JACK BROOKS (74%); 



751 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: EXECUTIVE CHANGES

 BODY:
* Burlington Northern Railroad Co., Fort Worth, a unit of Burlington Northern Inc., named William E. Greenwood chief operating officer. John Anderson will succeed Mr. Greenwood as executive vice president for marketing and sales. 
* Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp., or Freddie Mac, Reston, Va., appointed Robert J. Quinlan senior vice president of control, financial reporting and tax.
* Martin Marietta Corp., Bethesda, Md., promoted Marcus C. Bennett to senior vice president and chief financial officer.
* Mobil Corp., New York, said Walter E. MacDonald, a director and executive vice president for the Middle East and marine transportation, would retire. John P. Keehan Jr. was named vice president of the operation. Thomas C. DeLoach Jr. will succeed Mr. Keehan as vice president for planning and economics for Mobil and its Mobil Oil Corp. unit. Robert J. McCool will succeed Mr. DeLoach as vice president and general manager of U.S. marketing for the marketing and refining division.
* Reebok International Ltd., Stoughton, Mass., named Marilyn Tam senior vice president for apparel products.
* UJB Financial Corp., Princeton, N.J., a banking and financial-services holding company, named Larry L. Betsinger senior vice president and director of corporate information services. William F. Flyge was promoted to senior vice president of its investment management division.
* United Technologies Corp., Hartford, named Howard H. Baker Jr., former U.S. Senator from Tennessee and former White House chief of staff, to its board.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); LMT (NYSE) (72%); UTX (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (93%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (93%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (69%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (69%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (69%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BNSF RAILWAY CO (93%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); MOBIL CORP (72%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (72%); MOBIL OIL CORP (70%); REEBOK INTERNATIONAL LTD (69%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (68%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (93%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (68%); 

PERSON: JOHN ANDERSON (88%); R JOHN ANDERSON (88%); 



752 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: C.D.'s and Bank Funds Flat

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields on certificates of deposit and money market accounts at commercial banks and savings institutions remained mostly flat in the week ended yesterday compared with the week earlier.
Analysts said the interest-rate picture remains clouded, with few banks seeing the current high interest rates available in foreign countries as a long-term distraction to the general downward movement of yields in the United States.
According to 100 Highest Yields, a newsletter covering interest rates published in West Palm Beach, Fla., the same forces currently pushing up mortgage rates affect certificate rates as well. 
It cited the fear of inflation, which has exerted upward pressure on interest rates recently, and the absence of Japanese investors, who are the primary buyers of United States Treasury securities, as among the factors holding up interest rates.
 
Influence of Treasury Auction
At the Treasury's regular weekly bill auction on Monday, interest rates on three- and six-month bills were up. The auction results are considered an influence over what many banks pay on money market accounts and certificates of deposit.
The average rate for a three-month bill at the auction increased by 11 basis points, to 7.77 percent, its highest level since the auction of Dec. 26. For a six-month bill, the rate increased by 15 basis points, to 7.73 percent, the highest since the Oct. 2 auction. A basis point is one one-hundredth of a percentage point.
A weekly survey of New York area banks showed that average yields on certificates of deposit offered at commercial banks and savings institutions were mixed compared with the week before.
Average yields on money market accounts at commercial banks fell 4 basis points, to 6.49 percent, with yields on three-month certificates falling a basis point, to 7.82 percent. The average yields on six-month certificates were up 4 basis points, to 7.85 percent, the survey showed.
 
Rates at Savings Units
Meanwhile, at savings institutions, money market accounts and three-month certificates were unchanged, at 6.60 percent and 8.06 percent, respectively. The yield on a six-month certificate was down a basis point from a week earlier, to 8.08 percent.
Among 20 large banks surveyed nationwide, average yields on deposits were also mixed, with money market accounts off by 2 basis points, to 6.32 percent, and six-month certificates of deposit up 3 basis points, to 7.80 percent, from a week earlier.
Average yields on deposits at large credit unions nationwide were also mixed, with money market yields down a basis point, to 6.70 percent, and yields on one-year certificates of deposit down by a basis point, to 8.09 percent. Six-month certificate yields at credit unions were unchanged, at 8.04 percent, while two-and-a-half-year certificate yields were up 2 basis points, to 8.20 percent, and five-year certificate yields were up a basis point, to 8.22 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (57%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS INTEREST RATES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); AUCTIONS (92%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CREDIT UNIONS (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT



753 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
An Addition To Newark's Downtown

BYLINE: By Shawn G. Kennedy

 BODY:
DOWNTOWN Newark has a striking addition to its evolving skyline, the $74 million Newark Legal Center. The structure, which was completed last month and got its first tenant this month, was built to house law firms and keep them in the city.
The success of the project is regarded by Newark officials as a sign of the slow but sure gains being made as this much-troubled city struggles to recover from the economic decline that began in the 1960's.
The project's developers, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the Newark Economic Development Corporation, have accomplished a feat that few builders of any offices in the metropolitan area can now claim: their building opened with nearly all its 360,000 square feet of office space spoken for. Of the building's 18 office floors, 14 have been sold as condominium units or leased to tenants, and agreements are waiting to be signed for two more floors. Deals are close to completion for another two floors. 
''That top law firms chose to stay here says a lot,'' said Alma J. Smith, project development officer with the Newark Economic Development Corporation, ''The center has spread the word that Newark is alive and well.''
The occupants in the building, which stands on the Passaic River waterfront at the intersection of Raymond Boulevard and McCarter Highway, are some of the city's largest law firms. Among them are Crummy, Del Deo, Dolan, Griffinger & Vecchione, which bought 90,000 square feet of space; Sills Cummis Zuckerman Radin Tischman Epstein & Gross, which has leased 80,000 square feet, and Podvey, Sachs, Meanor & Catenacci, which bought a 30,000-square-foot condominium unit and moved in this month.
David Sheehan, managing partner of Crummy, Del Deo, said, ''Newark is still the commercial and legal center of the state.''
The idea for the development of a building devoted to the legal profession came from economic development officials in Newark. They felt that retaining law firms - traditionally among the city's largest category of office tenants - was essential for the continued revitalization of Newark's downtown.
That goal turned into a concrete plan as the result of a 1983 agreement between Governors Mario M. Cuomo and Thomas H. Kean that called for the Port Authority to build such a project in Newark in return for the approval of a fare increase on the PATH commuter system.
The final plan called for the Port Authority to build and operate the office structure and for the Newark development commission to be responsible for putting up a 674-space underground parking garage as well as a pedestrian bridge linking the building to Pennsylvania Station and the Gateway Center hotel and office complex across the street.
Designed by the Grad Partnership of Newark, the building has a dark- blue mirrored glass tower that rises from a three-story rose-colored granite base.
The new building's lobby includes 17,000 square feet of retail space, of which 9,000 feet has been leased, including 4,000 for the National Community Bank. The Port Authority is also negotiating with a tenant to take 4,000 square feet designed for a restaurant.
The legal center is linked by fiber-optic cable to Teleport, the Port Authority's satellite communications center on Staten Island. A key to the successful marketing campaign for the building was the Port Authority's decision to give occupants the option of renting or buying space.
''All along, the plan was for the legal center to be a condominium,'' said Roger Muessig, the Port Authority's manager of sales for world trade and economic development. ''But we also decided to leave open the option of offering leases in case market conditions changed.''
Another component of the project was Port Authority financing for the condominiums, which allows buyers to pay for their space through 25-year installment sales contracts with the agency.
Mr. Muessig said prices in the new building average about $205 a square foot and include up to $14.95 a square foot for interior office contruction. Rents average about $25 a square foot.
The success of the legal center is not the only sign of confidence in the future of downtown Newark.
The Linpro Company, a national real estate development and investment concern based in Berwyn, Pa., will build a second office tower next to the legal center. The foundation for the 600,000 square-foot, 22-story building, to be known as Two Riverfront Plaza, was built as part of the parking garage. Construction is scheduled to begin as soon as tenants are found.
Across McCarter Highway from the Legal Center, foundation work has started for a Bellemead Development Corporation development project that will include a 200,000-square-foot building for Seton Hall Law School and 400,000 square feet of speculative office space.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Newark Legal Center on Raymond Boulevard.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: REAL ESTATE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%); PORT AUTHORITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWARK ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP; PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEWARK LEGAL CENTER (NEWARK, NJ); NEWARK (NJ)

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; LEGAL PROFESSION COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G DAVID DAVIS (70%); 



754 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 27, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Hal Draper, 75, Socialist Writer Who Recounted Berkeley Protest

BYLINE: By PETER FLINT

 BODY:
Hal Draper, a scholar and writer on Marxism and socialism for 50 years, died of pneumonia Friday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 75 years old.
Mr. Draper, a Trotskyite who later termed himself an independent socialist, wrote full time after serving as a librarian and bibliographer for the University of California at Berkeley from 1960 to 1970. His works were credited with inspiring the nonviolent free speech movement there by Mario Savio and other leaders of the 1964-65 protests, which began a period of campus activism throughout the country. 
Mr. Draper, a veteran of student insurrection in the 1930's, recounted the later protests in ''Berkeley: The New Student Revolt'' (1965). A. H. Raskin of The New York Times called the author ''a master polemicist'' who lamented a disposition of many protest leaders to ''disaffiliate from society, rather than transform it.''
His four-volume ''Karl Marx's Theory of Revolution'' (1975-85), was hailed in The New York Review of Books by Robert L. Heilbroner, professor of economics at the New School, as an ''extraordinarily stimulating work written in a fresh, open style which comes as a welcome relief after the turgidities of so much Marxist writing.''
 
Other Political Books
Other works by Mr. Draper were ''Introduction to Independent Socialism'' (1963 and 1970), ''The Dirt on California: Agribusiness and the University'' (with his wife Anne, 1968) and ''The Dictatorship of the Proletariat from Marx to Lenin'' (1987).
Besides editing and contributing to other political books, Mr. Draper earned favorable reviews for his translation, ''The Complete Poems of Heinrich Heine: A Modern English Version'' (1982). He also explored science fiction comically in ''Ms Fnd in a Lbry: Or, the Day Civilization Collapsed'' (1982).
Mr. Draper was a Brooklynite and a graduate of Boys High School who earned a bachelor's degree at Brooklyn College in 1934 and a master's degree at Berkeley in 1960. He taught in New York City high schools and was a shipyard worker in World War II.
Mr. Draper was a national organizer and antiwar activist for the Young People's Socialist League in the 1930's and a founder and director of the Center for Socialist History in Berkeley in the 1980's.
His wife, the former Anne Kracik, died in 1973. Surviving are a sister, Dorothy Rabkin, of Palm Beach, Fla., and two brothers, Theodore Draper, of Princeton, N.J., and Robert Draper, of Great Neck, L.I.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); DEATHS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PNEUMONIA (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (64%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (56%); 

PERSON: DRAPER, HAL; FLINT, PETER B THEODORE DRAPER (94%); HAL DRAPER (68%); KARL MARX (61%); ANNE KRACIK (61%); 

 
