

1 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2206 words

HEADLINE: The Trouble In Housing Trickles Up

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

DATELINE: Greensboro, N.C. 

 BODY:
 WHEN Brandt and Tiffany Schneider put their brick colonial on the market for $1.2 million last April, they had every reason to be optimistic. The home, three years old and in a suburban neighborhood here, features a two-story great room with a stone fireplace and a leafy backyard. The couple's agent told them she would be shocked if it didn't sell within 30 days. After all, the Schneiders had owned five previous homes over the past decade, all of which had sold in the first month for more than the couple had paid.
 A year later, they are renting a house in Madison, Wis., where they moved to be closer to family, and are still waiting for a buyer for their old home. Despite Mr. Schneider's new job as a manager at a logistics company, his family has had to cut expenses and eliminate vacations in order to cover the $2,500-a-month rent in Madison and the mortgage payments, taxes and utility bills still due in Greensboro. 
 Half a dozen price cuts haven't done much to generate more traffic -- two months recently passed between showings -- and the Schneiders are now asking $874,900. At that price, they would just about recoup what they originally spent buying and upgrading the house. 
 ''We're hanging on by the skin of our teeth,'' says Mrs. Schneider, 41, a stay-at-home mom with three children. At one point, the family held a garage sale to raise some extra money. ''We put a lot of cash down, we didn't take out a subprime loan. But we never thought we'd have a hard time selling a great home in a wonderful neighborhood.''
 Nearly a year after the mortgage meltdown became front-page news, the Schneiders' travails reflect how the nation's housing woes have moved beyond subprime borrowers in working-class neighborhoods and into the realm of upper-middle-class homeowners. 
 Last week, a new report showed that house prices nationwide were off 14.1 percent from a year ago, while the Commerce Department said sales of new homes remained near their lowest levels since 1991.
 THE market here isn't like those of Florida or California, which have followed a boom-and-bust pattern, or of Cleveland, where foreclosures have overwhelmed entire neighborhoods. Instead, what's playing out here is a kind of paralysis, with wide swaths of the market frozen and only the very top end showing signs of life.
 This may hint at what's in store for other real estate markets around the nation that managed to avoid the excesses of the last decade but still find themselves struggling now. Indeed, the recent economic trajectory of Greensboro, a city of 242,000 smack in the middle of the rolling Carolina Piedmont, has run parallel to that of the country as a whole.
 Sales of existing homes here are down 22.5 percent from the first quarter of 2007, according to G. Donald Jud, a University of North Carolina economist who tracks the market for local Realtors, compared with a 21.7 percent drop in home sales nationally. Unemployment in the Greensboro area averaged 5.1 percent in April, versus 5 percent nationwide. The mortgage delinquency rate of 4.04 percent, meanwhile, is nearly identical to the country's rate, 4.35 percent.
 ''In some ways, Greensboro got caught up in the national housing boom,'' Mr. Jud says. ''It was neither a bubble nor a bust, but people in the middle are now feeling the pinch from rising costs and getting overextended.''
 Greensboro has fared better than other places in terms of foreclosures, though they were up 23 percent in April, versus the same month a year earlier; nationally, the jump was roughly 65 percent. ''But that's still pretty high for us,'' Mr. Jud says. ''The market is still weakening, inventories are growing and sales prices are dropping.'' Across the nation, foreclosures are expected to keep rising, flooding the market with more homes.
 In Greensboro at the end of the first quarter, nearly 2,500 homes were on the market, up nearly 12 percent from December. And it's midprice residences that have been hardest hit. While sales of properties valued at less than $150,000 are down 13.3 percent from a year ago, sales of homes between $150,000 and $350,000 are off more than 27 percent.
 The one exception to this otherwise sobering picture is Irving Park, a gracious neighborhood where some of Greensboro's original tobacco and textile heirs still reside. Like other wealthy enclaves such as Menlo Park, Calif., Irving Park has escaped much of the downdraft affecting outlying suburbs like Summerfield, where the Schneiders' home is for sale. 
 But over drinks in the wood-paneled dining room of the Greensboro Country Club, there are whispers that even Irving Park may be susceptible to the downturn. More properties are selling at substantial discounts, at least one member's million-dollar home is in foreclosure, and a prominent local bankruptcy lawyer says he is seeing a new kind of client. 
 As recently as two years ago, says the lawyer, Charles M. Ivey III, ''I felt like I was a veterinarian for dinosaurs -- clients were disappearing.'' Now, he's seeing more and more of what he calls ''paper millionaires,'' real estate investors who thought that the good times would go on forever. ''Mostly they bought a slew of properties, hoping to flip them and with refinancing, they thought they could stretch it out,'' Mr. Ivey says. ''Hopefully, we can buy enough time to sell off their properties.''
 THE brick house on Robdot Drive in Oak Ridge is just a 10-minute drive from the Schneiders' place in Summerfield, and it looks like any other of the prosperous homes that have sprung up like mushrooms from the red clay earth here over the last five years. Come closer and you quickly realize that something's not quite right: weather-proofing peeks out from around the front door, and an open garage reveals that the interior of the house contains little more than bare wooden beams.
 Construction here stopped abruptly months ago, and now it's just one of scores of McMansions nearby sitting empty and forlorn on what was farmland until a few years ago. Tobacco barns still dot the landscape, but the farms they once served are gone, paved over by developers and other speculators who figured that housing prices could only keep climbing. ''It was like, 'Build it and they will come,' '' says Lewis Tillman, who, with his wife Tara, owns Westchester Realty. ''Except they didn't come.''
 To make matters worse, these outlying suburbs were built on the premise of cheap gasoline, says Keith G. Debbage, a geography professor at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro who tracks the local economy. With gas at $4 a gallon, he says, ''travel costs are now a serious consideration.'' Oak Ridge and Summerfield are bedroom communities, he notes, and many commuters drive 30 to 45 minutes each way to jobs in Greensboro and Winston-Salem. ''People are doing a serious rethinking of where they live,'' he adds. 
 Now reality has caught up with the hopes that animated so many real estate markets around the country. When the Tillmans moved down to Greensboro from Cortlandt Manor, N.Y., four years ago and discovered these fast-growing suburbs, Mrs. Tillman says, ''we thought we'd be flipping homes. Now there's just so much inventory out there.'' 
 In one Oak Ridge subdivision, Mrs. Tillman's client is asking $409,000 for a brand new four-bedroom with granite countertops in the kitchen and a Jacuzzi-style bath. She just marked it down from $422,000, but given the slow pace of sales in the neighborhood, that may not be enough. ''Builders just kept putting up one spec house after another,'' she says.
 About 18 months ago, adds Casey Durango, a broker at Yost & Little, builders could hardly keep pace with demand. ''They were selling drawings,'' she says. 
 When buyers do turn up nowadays, she says, ''they smell blood in the water and routinely offer 15 to 20 percent below the asking price.''
 ONE big reason buyers are being so conservative is that mortgage standards have tightened considerably. ''We've kind of gone back to the old days,'' says Christie Caldwell, who has worked as a mortgage broker in Greensboro since 1986. While some analysts say lenders have overreacted, Ms. Caldwell says they are simply being prudent.
 Traditionally, she explains, homebuyers who put down less than 20 percent were required to pay for private mortgage insurance. But at the height of the bubble, banks turned a blind eye as borrowers did an end run around the rules by taking out two mortgages, Ms. Caldwell says. That's much harder to do these days, she says.
 Similarly, homebuyers with lower credit scores often have to put more down. Everything just seems more difficult, she says. ''Before, we could quote rates without knowing credit scores, debt-to-income ratios and the size of the down payment.''
 The resulting crunch is now also affecting both white-collar and blue-collar workers who had depended on the real estate market for employment. Kavanagh Homes, a local builder that specializes in the middle and low end of the market, has cut its work force by half. ''We've had to really pull our horns in,'' says the firm's president, John Kavanagh.
 One home appraiser in the area, Rai Alexander of Taylor Pope & Herring, says the first four months of 2008 ''were the slowest I've had in my career, and I've been in the business since 1991.'' 
 The recent surge in gas prices has been an added burden, since Mr. Alexander covers the cost of fuel himself and typically spends $45 to $50 a week on gas. ''I try to bunch up my appointments together so as not to drive back and forth to the office too much,'' he says. To make extra money, he also works part-time as a bartender at the Greensboro Coliseum, a local arena, and, with his wife, Denise, has cut back on going out to restaurants.
 ''It seemed like things just sort of stopped after Christmas,'' he says.
 Mr. Alexander, 48, grew up in Irving Park and still enjoys driving past fashionable addresses like Country Club Drive, telling stories about Greensboro's old-money families, like the Cones, who founded Cone Mills and made the denim for Levi's jeans. Although Cone Mills went bankrupt in 2004, and other local textile makers have cut thousands of jobs, you wouldn't know it from visiting Irving Park. It has long been among the wealthiest census tracts in the state, according to Mr. Debbage, with a median income of $122,052 in 2000.
 ''New money has flooded into the neighborhood, with younger people buying older homes and tearing them down,'' Mr. Alexander says. ''I couldn't afford to buy.'' He now lives in Summerfield, the same suburb where the Schneiders are trying to sell their home.
 Sitting in the Sunset Bar of the Greensboro Country Club, Gary Jobe is still enthusiastic about Irving Park, especially the profitability of pulling down older homes on big lots and putting up one, or sometimes two, in their place. A third-generation Greensboro builder with a high-end clientele, Mr. Jobe's business in Irving Park is thriving.
 Mr. Debbage says the very top end of the market in Irving Park is unlikely to feel anywhere near as much pain as newer, middle-class neighborhoods. ''There's a certain cachet and social prestige that's hard to replicate elsewhere,'' he says. ''It's been like that for a century, and it has built up over multiple generations. For those folks to be impacted, you'd have to see a very severe recession.''
 For those in Greensboro who are less fortunate than many residents of Irving Park, this is a time of waiting. Not just for all those empty houses to start selling again, or for gas prices to drop. Like the rest of the country, anxious homeowners who have no intention of moving are watching to see if the recent rate cuts by the Federal Reserve put a floor under falling real estate values.
 LOCAL residents are also talking up the opening of two projects they hope will replace some of the high-paying jobs lost when the domestic textile industry foundered. After 10 years of planning, FedEx expects to open a new hub at the Greensboro airport next year, which will eventually employ up to 1,500. Nearby, Honda Aircraft is building a new headquarters and factory.
 ''I don't know if it will be enough, but it will certainly help,'' Mr. Debbage says of the new employers. 
 Although it will be years before these projects begin to pay dividends, would-be real estate tycoons are still hoping against hope for a quick turnaround. 
 Driving down the country roads near his horse farm in Oak Ridge late last year, David Tolbert spotted a sign announcing an auction by a local builder who'd run into trouble. He ended up buying the house -- the four-bedroom that Mrs. Tillman is now trying to sell for him. ''I bought it to flip, but the flippage part is not going so well,'' he says.
 Like the Schneiders, Mr. Tolbert had always quickly sold his past homes for more than he'd paid. Now, with the carrying cost running at $2,000 a month, he, too, needs to sell and is considering a price drop -- though he has already lowered the price once, to $409,000. ''We'd hoped to make a profit, but if it doesn't sell by late this year, my profit will evaporate,'' he acknowledges. ''It's a pretty good deal, but I haven't gotten any nibbles.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Betty Howard is trying to sell a house near Greensboro, N.C., for Brandt and Tiffany Schneider. The property, in a cooling market that was never hot, has been listed for more than a year.(PG. BU1)
Gary Jobe says he has done well building new houses on old lots in an affluent area.
Rai Alexander, an appraiser in Greensboro, measures the exterior of a house using a laser.
 In some developments in the Greensboro market, construction has stopped on half-built houses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA D. DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); SUBURBS (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); FORECLOSURE (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (95%); MADISON, WI, USA (71%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



2 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1751 words

HEADLINE: A Player Destined for the Majors Chose First to Play for Himself

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS; Alan Schwarz contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: NASHVILLE 

 BODY:
A high school senior named Pedro Alvarez went to bat during a major league draft showcase at Yankee Stadium three springs ago.
 Thwack! The ball winged into the upper tiers. Smack! Another home run.
 Alvarez, 18 years old at the time, had committed to attend Vanderbilt University, but as Commodores Coach Tim Corbin watched him send shot after shot into the stands, he became so convinced that he was about to lose his prize player that he dialed his recruiting director. He told him to start looking for a new third baseman.
 ''It was too impressive of a workout for professional guys to walk away from,'' Corbin said recently.
 Sure enough, the Red Sox drafted Alvarez in the 14th round two weeks later, making him bonus offers that escalated to nearly a million dollars. 
 But Corbin's prediction was only half true. Alvarez turned down the money and enrolled in Vanderbilt with a scholarship as planned. ''He took a chance,'' Corbin said. ''He didn't know how it was going to turn out.''
 Now, three years later, it seems Alvarez's decision has paid off. He is widely expected to be among the top three picks in the draft Thursday. And with the agent Scott Boras working as his adviser, Alvarez -- a livery cabdriver's son who grew up in Upper Manhattan sharing a bedroom with his sister -- is almost certain to become a multimillionaire.
 The Tampa Bay Rays have the No. 1 pick but may not select Alvarez because they do not need a third baseman. The Pittsburgh Pirates pick second, and the Kansas City Royals are third. Although it has been speculated that Alvarez could receive a bonus of $7 million or more, he insists no one -- not even Boras, who did not return calls for this article -- has quoted a figure to him.
 To those who know the Alvarez family, the decision to lean toward college was not a surprise. Even as they dreamed of a major league career for their son, Pedro Sr. and Luz Alvarez had long resolved not to sacrifice his education. For instance, they sent him to an exclusive private school in the Bronx, Horace Mann School, instead of a high school with a better baseball team.
 ''My dad always told me that if you're good at something, in this case baseball, someone, somehow, will find you, no matter where you're at,'' Alvarez said. ''So you work on school, the only sure thing you have.''
 The elder Alvarez handed his son a baseball bat at the age of 3, and Pedro has not let go. Like many others in their mostly Dominican neighborhood -- an area that straddles Washington Heights and Inwood -- the Alvarezes hoped their son's skills on the baseball field, if carefully tended, might one day finance a college education.
 His parents went to college in the Dominican Republic, but when financial responsibilities intervened, they took jobs and neither graduated. In 1981, Pedro Sr. arrived in New York. His wife and 1-year-old Pedro followed in 1988. Their daughter, Yolayna, was born a year later.
 ''He always wished that his first child would be a boy,'' Yolayna Alvarez said recently, interpreting for her father, ''and that he would be able to go to school because of baseball. And that's exactly what happened.'' She just finished her freshman year at St. John's University, and she hopes to eventually attend law school. 
 Her brother had always been a good student, and when he played on a summer traveling team in middle school, he caught the attention of Barbara Tischler, an administrator at Horace Mann who ran the team. Tischler was impressed by his skills as a player, but she was equally intrigued by his academic potential.
 ''I thought that Pedro might actually hold his own here,'' Tischler recalled.
 Alvarez passed the entrance exam and, with a scholarship from the school, enrolled as a freshman. In the halls of Horace Mann, he is remembered as a polite, reserved student who got along with everyone, but had trouble at first adjusting to such a different environment. He got good grades, especially in science, math and Spanish, said Tischler, who was Alvarez's academic adviser and 10th-grade history teacher.
 Naturally, he joined the baseball team.
 Matt Russo, an assistant at the time, remembered when he first saw Alvarez hit during his sophomore year. ''The way the ball sounded off his bat, it sounded a little different from everyone else,'' said Russo, who is now the coach. ''I said to the head coach at the time, 'Coach, you might have something special here.' ''
 Horace Mann had a few good baseball players, but Alvarez was in a different class. Tennis matches were halted whenever he went to bat because the balls he hit regularly sailed past the diamond, over the gymnasium and onto the courts, 400 feet from home plate.
 Aided by his performance on the Bayside Yankees, a summer league team with a national reputation, word of Alvarez's prowess spread. By his senior year, as many as 30 scouts would attend his games. Elementary school students pestered him for autographs. ''His senior year here was wild,'' Russo said. ''After the games, he would take practice with a wood bat. In my mind, he put on a show.''
 When the Bayside Yankees competed in a tournament at Vanderbilt's baseball field, Corbin watched from the press box. ''He was a man playing with boys,'' Corbin said. 
 By that time, Corbin had a growing list of players taken high in the baseball draft who had come through the program since he had taken over in 2002. There was Jeremy Sowers, a first-round pick in 2004, and Jensen Lewis, selected in the third round in 2005. Eight Vanderbilt players were drafted in 2005, and seven in 2004.
 Corbin knew the Alvarezes valued education, but he also realized how important a million dollars would be to the family. ''There was a little part of me that felt guilty about pulling a student-athlete away from a sizable amount of money,'' he said.
 With the help of a tax specialist, Corbin presented the Alvarezes with a spiral-bound booklet breaking down just how much of the Red Sox bonus would remain after taxes, the purchase of a new car and a nicer apartment for his family, and paying for living expenses in the minor leagues. The brochure also included a list of projected ''accomplishments'' for Alvarez on a yearly basis if he chose Vanderbilt. By his junior year, Corbin predicted Alvarez would be the first pick in the baseball draft.
 Pedro Alvarez Sr. carries the brochure in the leather bag he takes to work every day. ''It's like a trophy,'' the younger Alvarez said, rolling his eyes.
 The decision was not easy, the son said. ''It was a lot of money -- even after taxes,'' Alvarez said. ''I have family in the Dominican Republic that's in need. They look to us for help. They kind of saw it as my only shot when clearly that wasn't the case.''
 Some in his neighborhood told Alvarez that college was for ''smart people,'' he said. Others said he was stupid for turning down such a sizable sum.
 Ultimately, it was the promise of a Vanderbilt education -- not Corbin's brochure -- that Alvarez says swayed him. ''A big factor was experiencing college as an 18-, 19-, 20-year-old,'' he said. The Red Sox offered to pay for college in the off-season or upon retirement, he said, ''but I don't want to be here when I'm 50, taking classes with 20-year-olds.''
 Many scouts acknowledge that they have little leverage when it is clear a player and his family are serious about education. ''I give them a great deal of credit for their fortitude, for walking away from a million dollars and saying, My son's education is more important,'' said Chuck McMichael, a special assistant to the general manager of the Atlanta Braves, who has decades of baseball scouting experience.
 Alvarez's situation is seen as unusual because few players are offered a million dollars, but it is not unheard of. Sixty percent of players who were drafted out of high school did not sign with a professional club, according to statistics from Baseball America. About 46 percent of all draftees decide not to sign.
 The statistics do not indicate how many of those high school students who went to college were later drafted, but there are plenty of examples of players who were later selected in a higher round.
 In 2004, David Price was offered a sum similar to Alvarez's when he was drafted out of high school, but like Alvarez, he chose to attend Vanderbilt. In 2007, he was the top draft pick and signed a six-year deal with Tampa Bay reportedly worth up to $11.25 million. He is playing for the Rays' Class A team in Vero Beach, Fla.
 Alvarez may repeat Price's feat. In 2006, he was named the national freshman of the year by Baseball America, and he played for two summers on the United States national team. Despite missing 23 games this season because of a broken bone in his right hand, Alvarez recently tied Vanderbilt's career home run record at 49 and as of Thursday had a .348 batting average in his college career.
 ''We knew what a good hitter he was out of high school, but I don't think anybody could have realized that he was this good of a hitter,'' said Eddie Bane, the director of scouting for the Angels.
 Alvarez, by most accounts, is keeping a respectable average in the classroom, too. He is an economics major who acknowledges that his 3.0 grade point average has come without too much effort. He said he planned to finish his degree in the off-season, as several other Vanderbilt draft picks have done. Alvarez's Facebook page -- he has more than 3,000 friends -- features hundreds of photographs of him with an easy, open grin, his arm often slung around the shoulders of teammates and a series of smiling women. He said he partook in the occasional fraternity party to blow off steam.
 ''He likes to go out, he likes to have fun,'' said Maggie Corbin, Tim Corbin's wife, who has grown close to Alvarez in his three years at Vanderbilt. ''But he has not given us one day of trouble.''
 During a practice Tuesday before the team flew to Arizona for the N.C.A.A. Division I regionals, Corbin took it easy on his players, who had just finished a grueling Southeastern Conference tournament in which they lost to Mississippi in the semifinals. Alvarez missed two ground balls in a row at third base, and Corbin chided him gently. ''That bending-over thing can get to you,'' he said.
 In a few days, everything will change, a subject that is rarely discussed. 
 ''I haven't even sat down with my parents to talk about the draft yet,'' Alvarez said. ''I'm not worried about it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pedro Alvarez was drafted by the Red Sox three years ago, but he chose to attend Vanderbilt. He is expected to be a high pick in the draft Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Pedro Alvarez's parents, Pedro and Luz, stayed focused on his education.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. SP1)
Pedro Alvarez, left, recently tied Vanderbilt's career home run record (49) despite missing 23 games with an injury.
Alvarez was named the 2006 freshman of the year by Baseball America.
 Vanderbilt Coach Tim Corbin said Alvarez's talent was obvious in high school.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. SP2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



3 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; EXPLORER SONOMA COUNTY, CALIF.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 2028 words

HEADLINE: On the Trail of a Sustainable Feast

BYLINE: By TAYLOR HOLLIDAY

 BODY:
THE psychedelic, hand-painted, Mushroom Man pickup truck parked at the New Carpati Farm in Sonoma County, Calif., just outside the town of Sebastopol, was the first sign that this vacation was going to be a little out of the ordinary.
 After a short tour of the grassy property and a stop to pet the baby chicks in their coop with a view of the verdant valley in the distance, my husband, Craig Havighurst, and I entered a little plastic hut. Inside, a few rows of shelving each held several oak-sawdust ''logs.'' As our eyes adjusted to the relative dark, bunches of meaty shiitake and gorgeous canary-yellow oyster mushrooms popped out of the logs in invitation, almost like gold in a mine. ''See those white hairs on top?'' said Steve Schwartz, owner of the New Carpati Farm and our guide on this culinary pilgrimage. ''It means it's super fresh. You would never see that in a grocery.'' 
 A visit to Mr. Schwartz's low-tech little mushroom hut on his three-acre farm is a revelation in many ways. But it's one that most Sonoma County visitors never have, since most are only headed for the area's excellent wineries. ''If you just do the wineries,'' said Mr. Schwartz, ''you're missing out.''
 After a four-day tour of farms -- with a few wineries thrown in -- I had to agree. We had come to Sonoma County specifically for the food. Inspired by the ''locavore'' movement, in which Earth-aware consumers go to great lengths to eat only locally grown, sustainable food from within a 100-mile radius of their home, we decided to take a locavore holiday, creating an entire meal from farms we had personally visited and farmers we had personally met. 
 This was possible because of Sonoma County Farm Trails, an agrotourism and farm-marketing group that supports sustainable agricultural diversity. It has 165 farm members in Sonoma County that invite interaction with the public in some way --from farm stands to farm tours. Having had its 35th anniversary in 2007, it is one of the oldest, largest and most diverse agrotourism organizations in the United States.
 The farms of the Sonoma County Farm Trails are dotted throughout the county anywhere wine grapes and creeping development have spared a patch of land. They are mostly working family farms, making time for visitors generally by appointment. 
 Wanting the full farm experience -- and a kitchen to cook in -- we were glad to find Full House Farm, also outside Sebastopol, which offers one of the few farm stays in the county. With our oenophile friends, Kelli Back and Gary Pemberton, we settled into the guesthouse, giddy over the view of the horses in the valley below, which we could see from the picture windows or from the Adirondack chairs perched on the hill. Amenities included our own kitchen garden and a bowl of freshly laid eggs. From Full House Farm, our food-sourcing radius would be a mere 20 miles: north to Healdsburg, west to Bodega, south to Petaluma and points between. 
 ''People are divorced from where their food comes from,'' said Ana Stayton at our first stop, Golden Nectar Farm on the southwest outskirts of Windsor. A nutrition educator and lay herbalist, Ms. Stayton, along with her husband, John, co-founder and director of the country's first green M.B.A. program, at Dominican University of California, runs Golden Nectar with the goal of ''helping people imagine the possibilities in their own lives of having a connection to the natural world and living more sustainably.''
 A tour of their 2.5-acre farm -- past a studio made with straw bales, an outdoor cob kitchen, a car that runs on vegetable oil and a hen-mobile that ferries a handsome assortment of chickens to fresh pecking grounds -- feels like a stroll through someone's giant backyard, albeit someone with the audacity to grow 150 varieties of fruit, from kiwis to blackberries, figs to plumcots. 
 ''This farm was designed as an experiment in biodiversity,'' said Ms. Stayton, reaching under a blueberry bush to yank a stray asparagus stem out of the ground for us to taste. As an organic farm that uses only natural fertilizers and pesticides, the diversity and rotation of plants helps keep the soil healthy and pests at bay, Ms. Stayton explained while an intern began transplanting some onions near the blueberries to see if they would ward off pesky gophers. 
 Although it's on a slightly bigger scale -- 17 acres right off U.S. 101 near Santa Rosa -- Tierra Vegetables is run with a similar philosophy. ''We want people to know where their food comes from,'' said Wayne James, who happened to be there, chatting with a repeat customer who was buying up all the strawberries, when we dropped by the bountiful farm stand that fronts his neatly tractored, though wildly diverse cropland. His sister and the farm's co-owner, Lee James, was running their stall at the Ferry Plaza Farmers Market, where San Francisco epicures seek out Tierra particularly for its vast array of chilies and chili products. 
 Tierra encourages visitors -- especially children -- to roam its fields. ''Organic is part of our sustainable practice,'' Mr. James said, ''but not all. The work we do here is environmentally, socially and economically sustainable. It has to be all three.'' 
 The good news, he continued, is that ''a lot more people understand what we're doing nowadays.'' 
 Proof of that is in the growing numbers of people who frequent farmers' markets and join community-supported-agriculture programs, like Tierra's, in which families become subscribers and pay the farmer in advance for a weekly delivery of fresh produce. Shaken into a new awareness by contaminated foods (E. coli spinach, anyone?) that have traveled an average 1,500 fuel-guzzling miles from a farm who-knows-where to your table, more Americans are eager to know their farmers and understand how their food is grown. 
 Even after visiting Love Farms, however, you may not fully understand the progressive methods of Ron Love. A city farm smack in the middle of Healdsburg (and a favorite of local chefs), its six acres boast 200 different organic crops throughout the year. A talk with Mr. Love quickly veers from his explanation of why his rows of tomatoes are growing up out of plastic-covered ground (the Israeli-desert-style irrigation conserves water and controls weeds and enables him to get his tomatoes on the market before anyone else's) to a discussion of the heady biodynamics of Rudolf Steiner and his prescriptions for organic farming with a spiritual bent, or what Mr. Love calls ''the next level of consciousness.'' 
 ''We don't understand the geometry of the living world,'' Mr. Love said. ''The '60s generation are the last people who can farm. We need a framework of valuing becoming a farmer.'' 
 That's also a concern for the mushroom man Steve Schwartz, who learned to grow mushrooms while teaching women to do so in Thailand in his Peace Corps days and who now works with California FarmLink, which helps preserve family farms by matching up retiring farmers with the next generation of aspiring back-to-the-landers. 
 There's no better way to cultivate that next generation than by getting kids out on the farm, which is exactly why many of these farmers take time out of their 80-hour-plus work weeks to give tours. There was a particularly happy assortment of human kids playing with exuberantly friendly goat kids at Redwood Hill Farm, a certified humane farm where all 350 goats have names. 
 Though it has a small-scale industrial creamery, Sebastopol-based Redwood Hill is still family-run and still makes award-winning goat cheese by hand in small batches, said the understated, gray-haired woman who led our tour of the creamery (it is open to the public a few weekends each year). It was only after we had followed the trail of the various cheeses to the aging racks -- seeing how some varieties grow a little moldier and hairier by the week as they age to perfection -- and swooned over the taste of creamy-tart crottin and Camembert-like Camellia, that we realized our guide was the owner, Jennifer Bice, a goat-cheese maker since 1978.
 If there is one thing you learn from visiting farms, it's that sustainable farming is an endless challenge. But on a drive toward the Sonoma coast, the environmental payoff is abundantly clear: rolling green hills, freely grazing cows, diversity of terrain.
 Head for bohemian Bodega (population 500), and you'll wind up at Bodega Artisan Cheese. After 22 years as a goat rancher, Patty Karlin is still pushing the envelope at her 60-goat farm and dairy, where she makes cheeses for farmers' markets and local restaurants. In her 90-minute eco-tour, she shows how she's moving off the power and water grid -- with solar panels and a pond-fed, tiered irrigation system -- in an attempt to zero out the ranch's bills. ''Everything I do has to be a model for the third world,'' said Ms. Karlin, who is also a consultant to African farmers.
 In the creamery, we saw the experimental Gouda she had made that morning with her young apprentice. And before a cheese tasting, we sampled the exotic microgreens that her apprentice-tenants sell to high-end restaurants under the name Earthworker Farm. 
 At McEvoy Ranch in Petaluma, the view may be richer and grander, with 18,000 olive trees planted over 80 acres of a 550-acre ranch, but it is still strictly sustainable and organic. Nan McEvoy, a former chairwoman of The San Francisco Chronicle, was the first to bring Tuscan-style olive oil production to Northern California. Her olive ranch and country home on the hills of the border of Sonoma and Marin Counties are as luxurious as her oils. On the frequent and thorough two-hour tour, you'll visit the olive orchards (each tree will produce roughly a gallon of oil each year) and the milling room (a giant granite stone crushes the olives, pits and all) before tasting the green and grassy extra virgin oil. 
 After our McEvoy visit, we had done it: We had sourced an entire meal of ingredients fresh from the farms that grew them. So what did we make from our bounty? Our friend Kelli substituted Bodega Artisan ricotta for the cow's-milk version she normally uses for her ricotta gnocchi -- to startlingly light and luscious effect. We made a sauce of New Carpati shiitake and oyster mushrooms; Tierra Vegetables adolescent garlic and fresh fava beans (absolutely worth the double-shucking); Love Farms basil and oregano; and McEvoy Ranch olive oil. 
 The microgreens salad from Earthworker Farm was a vision with its edible orange nasturtium and blue borage flowers, topped with crumbled Redwood Hill Farm feta and dressed with an olive-oil-lemon vinaigrette from the Meyer lemon tree outside our door. 
 It was one of the freshest, most satisfying meals we'd ever made, made even better by good friends and local sauvignon blanc.
 FROM THE MUSHROOM MAN TO GOATS THAT HAVE NAMES
 Sonoma County Farm Trails publishes a free map and guide (707-571-8288; www.farmtrails.org). You can read about California FarmLink's programs at www.californiafarmlink.org. The following farms welcome visitors for tours by appointment only.
 New Carpati Farm, 4241 Bartleson Road, Sebastopol; (707) 829-2978; free tour with purchase of produce or $5 for adults and $1 for children over 12.
 Golden Nectar Farm, 6364 Starr Road, Windsor; (707) 838-8189; www.goldennectar.com; $15 per person (minimum two adults), children free.
 Tierra Vegetables, 651 Airport Boulevard, Santa Rosa; (707) 837-8366; www.tierravegetables.com; $5.
 Love Farms, 15069 Grove Street, Healdsburg; (707) 433-1230; www.lovefarms.com; tour free with purchase.
 Redwood Hill Farm, 2064 U.S. 116 north, Sebastopol; (707) 823-8250; www.redwoodhill.com; free farm and creamery tours on selected dates. 
 Bodega Artisan Cheese, (707) 876-3483; www.bodegaartisancheese.com; $75 for five people or fewer and $15 for each additional person.
 McEvoy Ranch, 5935 Red Hill Road, Petaluma; (707) 778-2307; www.mcevoyranch.com; orchard tours on selected dates, $25.
 Full House Farm, 1000 Sexton Road, Sebastopol; (707) 829-1561; www.fhfarm.com; rates start at $215 a night plus a $125 cleaning fee for a three-bedroom guesthouse. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 22, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Explorer column on June 1, about a tour of sustainable-agriculture farms in Sonoma County, Calif., overstated one grower's contribution to the region's production of olive oil. The McEvoy Ranch was among the first to plant olive varietals from Tuscany in Northern California; it did not introduce Tuscan methods of olive oil production to the region. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Golden Nectar Farm in Windsor, Calif., uses a mobile chicken coop to bolster the sustainability of the small suburban operation.
LEFT: At New Carpati Farm, Steve Schwartz checks his mushrooms with his daughters, Noa, center, and Talia. RIGHT: Organic zucchini and strawberries are among the produce available at the Love Farms stand. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.TR7)
 RIGHT: Ana Stayton of Golden Nectar wants consumers to forge ''a connection to the natural world.'' Far right The McEvoy Ranch in Petaluma has 18,000 olive trees on 80 of its 550 acres. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Sonoma County, California. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (89%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (86%); WINERIES (86%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



4 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1760 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: JUNE 1, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 IRAQI MILITARY SUCCESSES
 Expand Area of Control
 Recent successes by the Iraqi Army in quieting violence in Basra and Sadr City appear to be stretching to Mosul. It may just be that all sides prefer, at the moment, not to fight, which would make any gains temporary. But negotiations with militias and their leaders have allowed the military to expand its area of control and the government's zone of sovereignty. PAGE 6
 DISPUTING SPUD ORIGINS
 Already stoked for disagreement by a 19th-century war and more recent economic imbalances, Peru is steaming over a claim by Chile of historical potato primacy. ''Obviously the world has known for centuries that the potato is from Peru and that the Peruvian potato saved Europe from hunger,'' Foreign Minister Jose Antonio Garcia Belaunde of Peru told reporters. ''The entire world knows this.'' PAGE 6 
 NATIONAL
 UNION LOOKS TO CHANGES
 In Grievance Process
 The Service Employees International Union is expected to jettison a time-honored union tradition -- having members go to their union representatives with their questions and grievances -- in favor of call centers for such services. Officials say the centers would provide faster and more expert service, but some union leaders and members say the centers are a bad idea. PAGE 26
 A NEW KIND OF MONUMENT
 A proposal under consideration by the Bush administration to create a new kind of national monument encompassing Pearl Harbor and other World War II sites in the Pacific would require rethinking the concept of how monuments are organized. ''Traditionally, a monument is some fixed piece of geography, and you draw a line around it and that's it,'' said an Interior Department official. But the areas in the monument being contemplated are not contiguous. 
 PAGE 20
 METRO
 ACCIDENTS RAISE QUESTIONS
 About New Construction
 Throughout his tenure, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has taken particular pride in the construction boom, promoting it as the product of his pragmatic stewardship. But the deadly crane collapse on Friday morning is the latest in a series of construction-related accidents that have left New Yorkers with a growing sense that Mr. Bloomberg has let high-rise construction proliferate without adequate oversight. PAGE 31
 A DOUBLE DISABILITY
 Advances in health care have extended the average life expectancy of people with Down syndrome to more than 50 years today, from 25 in 1983. But in a cruel coincidence that scientists do not yet fully understand, research has shown that people with Down syndrome, a chromosomal abnormality, have a much higher incidence of Alzheimer's disease at an early age. PAGE 31
 SPORTS
 CALLS FOR REFORM
 Don't Come From Daly
 Controversy has stalked John Daly since shortly after his arrival on the major golf stage in 1991, through three very public and rancorous divorces, two stints in alcohol rehabilitation, broken relationships with four major golf manufacturers and two smaller club-makers. But Pat Perez, a close friend and fellow golfer says, ''I don't think John thinks there is a problem.'' PAGE 1
 CHALLENGING BIG BROWN
 Big Brown's trainer, Rick Dutrow, sees the results of next Saturday's Belmont Stakes as a foregone conclusion: Triple Crown winner No. 12. But Hidetoshi Yamamoto, left, the owner of Casino Drive, has his own vision about what destiny holds for his horse. His racing manager, Nobutaka Tada, expresses it thus: ''We did not bring Casino Drive here. His pedigree led us here.'' PAGE 7
 OBITUARIES
 JORDAN M. WRIGHT, 50
 A lawyer, businessman and publisher, he collected more than a million bumper stickers and other campaign artifacts from the time of George Washington to that of George W. Bush. This year, he published a book with pictures and commentary on his vast collection, and this month, the Museum of the City of New York will exhibit some of it. PAGE 28
 Book Review
 IN LIMBO,
 With Carry-On Luggage
 As anyone who's ever been stranded in an airport can attest, the interminable wait in the seating area becomes its own kind of drably carpeted existential purgatory. This is the predicament in which we find Benjamin R. Ford, the protagonist of Jonathan Miles's humorous ''Dear American Airlines,'' as a trip to his daughter's wedding comes to a halt en route. PAGE 1
 A GUIDE TO DRINKING
 Kingsley Amis, that erudite lover of wines, knew his way around a perfect martini. Stirred, not shaken. Gin, not vodka. Like a strong liquor, Dominique Browning says, ''Everyday Drinking,'' a new collection of Amis's writing about the pleasures of imbibing spirits, should be nursed at a leisurely pace. PAGE 11
 Sunday Magazine
 FROM SUPERMODEL
 To Bankable Star
 Her hero is Martha Stewart, and like her hero, she wants her name to immediately suggest a distinct point of view. Meanwhile, her face can suggest any of 275 smiles, all available at will. That will -- and exceptional looks -- have helped Tyra Banks turn herself into a brand. 
 PAGE 38
 THEY CAME BEARING FOOD
 Patricia Leigh Brown's neighbors in Oakland, Calif., have been celebrating a potluck dinner on the first Wednesday of every month for almost two decades. It's the kind of strange-people-in-one's-personal-space moment that makes former New Yorkers like Ms. Brown squirm at first. She was eventually won over by the food and, improbably, the company of her neighbors. PAGE 59
 The Ethicist: No Vaccine, No Play Group? 19
 Questions for Jim Webb 17
 Travel
 FEELING YOUR PAIN,
 Not Getting Pulled Down
 Airlines are in a mess right now, and some companies associated with them, like Web-based travel services and hotels, are making a point to not get dragged down with them. They are being proactive about dealing with customer dissatisfaction, even if the mistake is the air carrier's and not theirs. Their motivation, of course, is not totally altruistic. ''When customers have a bad experience they blame both of us,'' the chief executive of Travelocity said. PAGE 6
 A SUSTAINABLE FEAST
 Sonoma County is known for its excellent wineries, but going just for the wines means you may be missing out. The region is also home to one of the oldest, largest and most diverse agrotourism organizations in the United States -- a particular draw for foodies who happen to be locavores. PAGE 7
 Kayaking in Venice 3
 The Desert Dust of Beijing 11
 Play Magazine 
 RUSSIAN ROBOT,
 Juggling Phenom
 YouTube has redefined the rules of celebrity and made stars out of some of the most proficient practitioners of specific subcultures. Take Vova ''The Russian Robot'' Galchenko, one of the best jugglers in the world. He has been a television guest of Ellen and Oprah, all while (ahem) juggling college courses, a girlfriend and the pressure that comes from being a hero in the vanguard of a growing niche pastime. PAGE 63
 Automobiles
 MAKING OVER 
 The Minivan
 Chrysler two redesigned minivans to include DVD players that aim to pacify children of different ages and second-row seats that swivel to face the rear. But Christopher Jensen says that the end product is lacking because ''there wasn't a serious effort to reward the driver who wants a connection with the vehicle.'' PAGE 1
 Arts & Leisure
 TOMORROW NEVER DIES
 (Neither Does Bond)
 In addition to the 12 Bond novels Ian Fleming actually wrote, there are almost twice as many that he didn't. Charles McGrath says the latest literary installment winks and nods at all the Bond lore before it. But the James Bond on the page -- melancholy, misogynistic, casually racist -- is a long cry from the suave Bond of the screen. 
 PAGE 1
 GROUP THERAPY
 Coldplay's appeal lies mainly in the band's soaring hooks and sweeping melody. In its fourth outing, ''Viva La Vida or Death and All His Friends,'' the group decided on a markedly different approach, adding experimental textures, arrangements and structures to its sound. PAGE 28
 A Shrinking Theater World 6
 Sunday Styles
 IT'S NOT SO EASY
 Being Less Rich
 Everyone is feeling the economic pinch, even the wealthy. People whose jobs it is to provide services to the rich are getting an earful from those clients, who are anxious about the financial climate. And in those gilded living rooms, there is a quiet nervousness about keeping up appearances. PAGE 1
 Sunday Business
 HOUSING TROUBLES,
 Trickling Up
 The wave of the mortgage crisis is beginning to overtake parts of the middle class. The Schneiders of Greensboro, N.C., have found themselves trying to sell in a real estate market where only the top end is showing signs of life. ''We're hanging on by the skin of our teeth,'' says Tiffany Schneider, 41, a stay-at-home mother with three children. PAGE 1
 Week In Review
 SEX, THE CITY
 And the Pink Ribbon
 Ruth Pennebaker and her four girlfriends don't have much in common with the main quartet in ''Sex and the City.'' They are older, much less bold in their sartorial choices, and decidedly non-New Yorkers. But four members of the quintet are all breast cancer survivors, and are as close as the show's main characters. ''Wrong city, wrong demographics, wrong shoes, but -- what the hell -- right attitude,'' she writes. PAGE 3
 Editorial: Made in America
 Last week, 111 nations adopted a treaty to eliminate stockpiles of cluster arms, a weapon that wreaks more damage on civilians than soldiers. Predictably, the Bush administration vigorously opposed the treaty. The next president must sign it. PAGE 11
 EDITORIAL: THE HOUSING TRUST FUND
 Congress should pass legislation creating a Housing Trust Fund to ease the affordable housing crisis. But it must first kill off a provision that would divert help away from the storm-stricken Gulf Coast. PAGE 11
 OP-ED: MAUREEN DOWD
 Scott McClellan, a former Bush press secretary, is out with a new book -- and out practicing a new type of spin. PAGE 13
 OP-ED:
 Frank Rich
 Scott McClellan's tell-all tells us just how much the original sin of the war's conception remains a political flash point. PAGE 12
 OP-ED: THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Barack Obama would do well to shift his focus from the list of enemy leaders he would talk with to the list of things he would do to generate more leverage for America. That's what matters. PAGE 12
 PUBLIC EDITOR:
 Clark Hoyt
 On May 12, The Times published an Op-Ed article by a military historian who argued that any hopes that a President Barack Obama might improve relations with the Muslim world were unrealistic because Muslims would view him as an apostate. Many Times readers saw the article as irresponsible. Clark Hoyt takes a look. PAGE 12

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MENTAL RETARDATION (88%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (85%); CONSTRUCTION (85%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (84%); DOWN SYNDROME (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (73%); CALL CENTERS (72%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (72%); NATIONAL PARKS (65%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (62%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (52%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



5 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; EDUCATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: More School Districts Look To Hire Teachers of Chinese

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON 

 BODY:
 THE second graders were playing patty-cake while chanting in a singsong: ''I love reading. You love writing. I am going to help you. You are going to help me. You are my friend. We are very happy!''
 If that sounds pretty simplistic for a group of 8-year-olds, bear this in mind -- the class was speaking in Chinese. Every one of the 549 students who attend the Grimes Elementary School here began learning Mandarin this year, after the school received a three-year grant to begin the program.
 The district's Mandarin curriculum is one of the newest in Westchester public schools, but it won't be for long. Horace Greeley High School, in Chappaqua, plans to introduce the language next school year. And the Scarsdale School District will embark on an ambitious Mandarin language program in the 2009-10 academic year, beginning in the sixth grade and continuing through high school.
 Several districts already teach Mandarin, including Croton-Harmon and Briarcliff. Mamaroneck has the oldest Mandarin program in the county; the district has offered it since 1988. Other districts, including Hastings, Rye and Blind Brook, are exploring adding Chinese to the curriculum. 
 What is happening in Westchester reflects a national trend. The number of Chinese programs in prekindergarten through 12th grade in the United States has grown by almost 200 percent since 2004, according to the Asia Society, a nonprofit group that promotes education about the continent. 
 ''This has just exploded all over the country,'' said Rosemary G. Feal, executive director of the Modern Language Association. 
 The burgeoning interest in Mandarin reflects the recognition of China's emergence as an economic and political power, administrators say. About 1.3 billion people worldwide speak all dialects of Chinese. The proliferation of programs has also been stimulated by the availability of federal grant money to encourage Chinese language instruction.
 But starting a Chinese language program is not as easy as simply winning school board approval. First, there is a gap between interest in Mandarin instruction and the availability of certified instructors.
 ''With more and more programs springing up, there is a dearth of certified teachers right now, especially compared to the demand,'' said Robin Harvey, coordinator of the Developing Chinese Language Teachers project at New York University.
 To become accredited, it is not enough for teachers to be fluent in the language. They also need a total of 30 college credits in the language they will teach, Ms. Harvey said. Many natives of Taiwan and mainland China lack such credits. 
 At N.Y.U.'s education school, about 20 people will be certified this spring to teach Chinese. Pace University, in White Plains, also has a Chinese language certification program. Only two people are being certified this year, but Pace is working on a new program, which it plans to introduce in January, to fast-track native Chinese speakers for certification. Administrators are exploring ways to document language competency in ways that would count toward college credits.
 Ms. Harvey, who worked as a consultant to the Scarsdale School District, said that districts contemplating new Mandarin programs also express concern about how much children will be able to master.
 ''Because we are so culturally distant from China, it seems that Chinese will be insurmountable to learn,'' she said. ''In fact, the first three or four months, when you're looking at characters, they do seem totally alien, but all of the sudden, a switch will flip. It doesn't take longer to learn to speak or listen than other languages, but it does take longer to read and write.''
 In a recent 11th-grade Chinese language class at Mamaroneck High School, teenagers play-acted a dialogue of a doctor's examination under the direction of their teacher, Rong Rong Le. Looking down at the rows of Chinese characters, Alexandra Rudansky, 17, and Kate Rainey, 17, took turns as doctor and patient as they conversed in Mandarin about temperatures, blood tests and X-rays.
 BOTH girls have studied the language since the seventh grade and can now converse and understand native Chinese speakers. On a recent class trip to Chinatown, they bargained over prices of store goods and ordered meals in Chinese. Both tutor eighth graders in Mandarin and plan to continue Chinese study in college.
 The Mamaroneck program has grown in popularity. Jordan Gratch, 17, began studying Chinese in seventh grade and is one of 28 people in his grade to study the language. His younger sister is in the eighth grade, which has 100 children taking Mandarin. 
 Croton-on-Hudson and Briarcliff offer Mandarin instruction as part of a continuing exchange with Chinese high schools. Last summer, 45 foreign students lived with families in Croton, and last month a group of seniors from Croton and Briarcliff traveled to Shanghai, Beijing and Xian, visiting schools and staying in homes and dormitories. 
 ''The community has really embraced this,'' said Joel Adelberg, the principal at Croton High School and one of the leaders of the trip. ''For a small town, we are doing some exciting work.''
 In Chappaqua, a history teacher and a Chinese teacher will jointly teach the new high school course. It will include not only Mandarin instruction, but will also examine the historical and cultural foundations of modern Chinese society. 
 ''We thought it might be better to start with this course that contains both contemporary culture and a language, because that might generate an interest,'' said Lyn McKay, deputy superintendent of curriculum in Chappaqua.
 In Scarsdale, parents pushed for Mandarin to be included in the curriculum, and the district formed a committee to study the issue last fall. After considering several languages, including Arabic, the group recommended Mandarin, citing China's strategic importance, community interest and the sustainability as a program. 
 Michael V. McGill, the superintendent of Scarsdale schools, said: ''To me, the broader goal really has to do with sensitizing students to cultures that are different than their own. Learning the language is important, but understanding how language and culture and politics and personal behavior all interact is also very important.'' 
 Frances Lightsy, the principal at Grimes Elementary School, agrees. She said most of the children in her school, which is 98 percent African-American and African-Caribbean, had never seen a Chinese person, except perhaps in a restaurant. When Chun Li, a native of China, arrived to teach a special education class a few years ago, some of the children mocked her.
 ''We really needed to expand their horizons to accept someone different,'' Ms. Lightsy said.
 Ms. Li volunteered to teach an after-school program to expose the children to Chinese culture. Now, she teaches Mandarin full time at the school. As she entered Tanya Douglas's second-grade classroom, the students called out ''Good morning, teacher'' in Mandarin. For 30 minutes, she kept the children engaged -- writing Chinese characters on the board, having the children speak, gesture and dance. 
 ''This is an exciting thing for me to do,'' Ms. Li said. ''We started from scratch. And now they are beginning to communicate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LESSONS: Tajanae Brown, above left, and Naomi Mulling at Grimes. Left, Rong Rong Le leads class at Mamaroneck High. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. WE5)
 WORD GAMES: Naomi Mulling, a second grader at Grimes Elementary in Mount Vernon, where classes in Mandarin began this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. WE1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ACCREDITATION (75%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (75%); SCHOOL BOARDS (73%); TRENDS (70%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: MODERN LANGUAGE ASSOCIATION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (58%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



6 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: It's Not So Easy Being Less Rich

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
NANCY CHEMTOB, a divorce lawyer in Manhattan, has found that her days have become crammed seeing clients, all worried about how an economic downturn will affect their marriages. 
 They seem to have nothing to fret about: their net worths range from $5 million to $1 billion. A blip in the markets shouldn't send their chateau-size Park Avenue co-ops to foreclosure or exile them to Payless Shoes.
 But Ms. Chemtob's clients are concerned all the same, she said, because their incomes have shrunk, say, to $2 million a year from $8 million, and they know that their 2008 bonus checks are likely to be much less impressive. 
 One of her clients recently confessed that his net worth had decreased to $8 million from more than $20 million, and he thinks that his wife will leave him. He has hidden their fall in fortune by taking on debt to pay for her extravagant clothes and vacations. 
 ''I literally had to sit there and tell him that he had to tell his wife that she had to stop spending,'' she said. ''He was actually scared she would leave him because their financial situation changed so drastically.''
 The wealthy don't generally speak publicly about their finances, in good times or bad. It's in poor taste, for one, and their employers could fire them for talking even a little. But people who provide services to the wealthy -- lawyers, art advisers, personal trainers and hairstylists -- say they are getting an earful about their clients' financial anxieties. 
 Interviews with the people who actually see the bank statements, like divorce lawyers and lenders, say their clients are definitely living on less than they did a year ago, regardless of how expansive the definition of ''less'' may be. Hairstylists and private jet rental companies say the wealthy are cutting back on luxuries like $350 highlights and $10,000-an-hour jet rentals. Even nutritionists and personal trainers notice a problem. The wealthy are eating more and gaining weight because of the stress.
 These financial problems -- if they can be called that -- will hardly elicit tears from the rest of us. But in those gilded living rooms, there is a quiet nervousness about keeping up appearances. 
 ''Even if they're not in danger of not paying their mortgage, there's still a psychological change,'' said Chris Del Gatto, chief executive of Circa, which has watched its business jump by 50 percent in the last year as wealthy clients sell their spare diamonds and Rolexes. ''The economy is an issue even for people who don't need the money.''
 THEIR spouses could leave them when they discover that their net worth has collapsed to eight figures from nine. Friends and business associates could avoid them as they pass their lunchtime tables at Barney's or the Four Seasons. And these snubs could trickle down to their children.
 ''They fear their kids won't get invited to the right birthday parties,'' said Michele Kleier, an Upper East Side-based real estate broker. ''If they have to give up things that are invisible, they're O.K. as long as they don't have give up things visible to the outside world.''
 So New York's very wealthy are addressing their distress in discreet and often awkward ways. They try to move their $165 sessions with personal trainers to a time slot that they know is already taken. They agree to tour multimillion-dollar apartments and then say the spaces don't match their specifications. They apply for a line of credit before art auctions, supposedly to buy a painting or a sculpture, but use that borrowed money to pay other debts.
 ''Most people won't go to their banker and say: 'You know I'm in desperate trouble. I need funds,' '' said Andy Augenblick, president of Emigrant Bank Fine Art Finance, which allows clients to borrow against art collections worth more than $2 million. Mr. Augenblick said that the number of requests for these types of loans is five times higher than a year ago. He said that while these borrowers claim that they don't need the money, their latest financial statements show that their net worth has withered in the past year.
 Other wealthy clients are cutting luxuries that they think their friends and relatives won't notice, according to Mr. Del Gatto of Circa. At Circa's midtown offices, he said, the seven consultation rooms have been busy with customers selling their precious gems. Some older couples, he said, are selling estate jewelry to help support their children who have lost Wall Street jobs. Bankers are paring down their collections of Patek Philippe watches. Wives from Greenwich and Scarsdale are selling 2-carat to 35-carat single-stone diamond rings. One recent client explained to Mr. Del Gatto that she was selling $2 million in diamonds she rarely wore, because her friends wouldn't notice that they were gone.
 ''She said, 'If I sold my Bentley or my important art, they would notice,' '' he said. ''That we hear, in differing examples, every day.''
 Art consultants find that the very wealthy are more receptive to parting with their precious works. Cassie Rosenthal, an owner of the Chelsea gallery Goff & Rosenthal, said that since the subprime crisis hit in the fall, and especially since the new year, some collectors are willing to sell pieces that were off limits in the past. She said that when the deals close quickly, they're happy.
 ''Most people will just sort of say: 'Will you sell this for me? When you can get me payment?' '' Ms. Rosenthal said. ''It's more about the urgency of getting paid.''
 Justin Sullivan, managing director of Regent Jet, which leases private airplanes, said most clients in real estate and on Wall Street are switching to chartered jets over private jets, and cutting their flight budgets by about 25 percent. One New York real estate developer cut his budget to less than $250,000 a year from $1.5 million a year.
 ''A year ago, he would have only flown Gulfstreams,'' Mr. Sullivan said. ''Now it's moving to the point where he's flying Beech jets and Learjets.''
 Some wealthy New Yorkers are even cutting back on relatively smaller things. At J Sisters, a midtown Manhattan salon where celebrities like Naomi Campbell and Gwyneth Paltrow mingle with Wall Street clients, stylists and colorists say they hear about money worries all day. On a spring afternoon, a half-dozen hairstylists to the very wealthy talked about how customers are stretching their $350 highlights and $150 haircuts to every eight weeks instead of six weeks. Some women are cutting out highlights entirely, saying they would ''rather be brunettes.''
 Jean-Francois Pilon, a stylist at J Sisters, has seen many women come less frequently and tip less generously. During the subprime crisis last summer, and the collapse of Bear Stearns last March, he said, many clients tried to stretch out their visits. He interprets these changes in behavior as signs that they need to watch their spending.
 ''You pick up on it very quickly,'' he said. ''People don't beg.''
 The drop in wealth has also exposed other personal problems, like bad marriages. Money -- which bought jewelry or extravagant vacations -- helped smooth over many of these difficulties, said Kenneth Mueller, a psychotherapist in the East Village who works with many Wall Street bankers and real estate developers. Now, he said, his clients ''catastrophize'' smaller bonuses or shriveling stock portfolios. ''You have to remind them that there's something that has always been there,'' he said. ''All the money helped mask the anxiety.''
 The very wealthy can't hide anything from their nutritionists and personal trainers, because they see the weight gain. Heather Bauer, a dietitian who works with many Wall Street executives who pay $600 to $800 a month for her services, says her clients have been eating and drinking more in the last six months. She sees results of this indulging each time they step on a scale, and in their journals that record what they've eaten.
 ONE Wall Street executive, Ms. Bauer said, snacks on nuts in her office all day to manage the stress of potentially losing her position, while another confesses to inhaling four bowls of cereal at 10 p.m. Even their sex lives are suffering, Ms. Bauer said, because of the stress or because the weight gain makes them feel unattractive. 
 Her clients blame the economy for their out-of-control waistlines.
 ''The number one concern that they have is the state of the financial market,'' she said. ''There definitely is a correlation between the stock market and weight gain.''
 Clay Burwell, a personal trainer to many Wall Street executives, said that his clients were also feeling the toll. A year of eating more, drinking more and working longer hours has started to hurt their health.
 ''They come into the gym with a dark storm cloud over their head,'' he said. ''They look like hell.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOU BEACH)(pg. ST1)
CUTTING CORNERS: Sometimes, sacrifices have to be made.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PLANE, ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 HAIR, IMAGE SOURCE/CORBIS)(pg. ST10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FAMILY LAW (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); FORECLOSURE (76%); LAWYERS (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (69%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



7 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Safe at Home

BYLINE: By SAM STEPHENSON. 
Sam Stephenson is the director of the Jazz Loft Project at the Center for Documentary Studies at Duke University.

 BODY:
THE CROWD SOUNDS HAPPY 
 A Story of Love, Madness, and Baseball. 
 By Nicholas Dawidoff. 
 271 pp. Pantheon Books. $24.95. 
 As a junior in high school in 1984 I studied Russell Baker's Pulitzer Prize-winning 1982 memoir, ''Growing Up,'' in which he recounted his childhood after his father died when Baker was 5. He grew up in rural, Depression-era Virginia, without plumbing or electricity, and later in Baltimore. Baker demonstrated that ordinary tales told plainly could rise to the level of art, and the book stuck with me over the years, through the rise of the memoir industry, as a premier example of writing about boyhood. 
 Nicholas Dawidoff's memoir, ''The Crowd Sounds Happy,'' is a successor to ''Growing Up,'' and it deserves as much attention. Dawidoff, at 45, is a generation younger than Baker (he was 19 when the 57-year-old Baker came out with his book in 1982), and his story is more complicated, involving not his father's death but something perhaps more insidious, mental illness. The book grew out of Dawidoff's New Yorker magazine article, ''My Father's Troubles,'' published in 2000, and he expands the father-son focus into a beautiful portrait of a wounded family. 
 Dawidoff's father earned degrees from Harvard and Yale, but not long after his marriage, he began talking to squirrels, claiming they instructed him to act violently toward his family. Dawidoff's parents divorced in 1966, and Dawidoff, who was 3, settled with his mother and infant sister into a two-family home in New Haven. His duty-honoring mother, a schoolteacher, gave the children the bedrooms while she slept on a converted sofa in the living room. The kids made dreaded, often harrowing monthly visits to see their father in New York. Once, when ''Nicky'' was 6, he visited the Washington zoo with his father, who became enraged and took off, leaving Dawidoff no choice but to run after him. In restaurants his father would verbally abuse the waitresses and then make passes at them. He would also go into rages with eyes bulging, declaring that all the women in the family were whores, including Nicky's beloved Aunt Susi. ''Your father is supposed to protect you,'' Dawidoff writes, ''and mine was scaring the hell out of me.''
 In passages often heartbreakingly honest, Dawidoff evokes the ''unpredictable sources of harm'' he felt at every turn. Some are fairly typical adolescent insecurities -- fear of schoolyard bullies, shyness around girls, the shame of his clothing and his family's duplex -- and others are pure terror: a girl in his elementary school is kidnapped and her corpse is found in the woods. 
 Many pages pass without mention of his father, and throughout the book, Dawidoff beautifully blends in familiar details of a 1960s and '70s youth -- Space Food Sticks, the Hardy Boys, Top-Siders and Tretorn sneakers, Lacoste shirts, Farrah Fawcett-Majors. Though his mother rarely buys popular consumer items, not even a television, Dawidoff portrays these lacks with no cynicism, only pain. As he grows older he gradually realizes that no matter how bad he has it, the black residents of New Haven's horrid, segregationist public housing projects have it worse.
 Dawidoff's safe haven was baseball. He was introduced to it by his aunt and uncle and a grandfather. His early baseball education came from books. He read and reread Ted Williams's autobiography, finding solace in the man's loner qualities, and he commiserated with Williams's dysfunctional family. He also pored over Lawrence Ritter's oral history masterpiece, ''The Glory of Their Times.'' Before he experienced live action as a fan or a player -- Dawidoff eventually played on Harvard's team -- he learned that baseball had the narrative qualities of literature. ''With the game's system of making a tangible record of every substantive event, there was a stability and an order to baseball. ... It could be known,'' he writes. 
 He became a Red Sox fanatic, his imagination ignited by the radio broadcasts. The announcer welcomed listeners to Fenway Park every night, ''and right then,'' Dawidoff says, ''a part of me zoomed down the I-91 highway entrance ramp and lifted out of New Haven. ... As he introduced the players position by position -- 'Jim Rice left field, Fred Lynn center field' -- it was like having the cast of characters read aloud to you from the beginning of a Russian novel.''
 Dawidoff's grandfather Alexander Gerschenkron, a Harvard economist who was the subject of Dawidoff's brilliant biography, ''The Fly Swatter,'' was a Russian immigrant. His major work argued that underdeveloped countries enjoyed opportunities that economic powers didn't have; that ''backward'' countries could skip steps and ''spurt'' forward. In effect, Gerschenkron created economic theories to match the compassionate literary values of his heroes Tolstoy, Pushkin, Chekhov and Turgenev.
 Dawidoff inherited his grandfather's belief in the special possibilities for long sufferers. In an earlier book, ''In the Country of Country,'' he explored the working-class roots of the music of Ralph Stanley, Jimmie Rodgers, Patsy Cline and others. 
 The voice in ''The Crowd Sounds Happy'' is inquisitive and graceful while sparing no pain, and it makes one wish Dawidoff had a broader platform, like Russell Baker's old New York Times column. Dawidoff writes, ''When you are young there is the terrible inability to understand that it's your deficits that will make others not only like you but feel close to you.'' He learned this bit of wisdom, but I'm not sure many other adults have. If they did, then crowds might be happy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM BETTMAN/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); MENTAL ILLNESS (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (63%); BULLYING (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (55%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (55%)

TITLE: Crowd Sounds Happy, The (Book)>; Crowd Sounds Happy, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



8 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IDEA LAB; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Marriage Partners

BYLINE: By KENJI YOSHINO. 
Kenji Yoshino is a professor at Yale Law School. He last wrote for the magazine about the future of civil rights.

 BODY:
The recent California Supreme Court decision granting gays the right to marry creates a novel predicament. In November, California voters will quite likely have to decide whether to take marriage away from gay couples rather than whether to grant it to them. If Golden State voters decide to preserve that right, the freedom to marry will no longer be the product of ''activist judges'' but will acquire a democratic imprimatur. This high-stakes vote squarely poses the question of whether and how gays can get the support of straights on this issue.
 By definition, when minorities seek civil equality in a democratic society, their success turns on their ability to garner support outside their group. In the context of race, the legal scholar Derrick Bell has argued for this ''interest convergence'' thesis, noting that the African-American civil rights movement took off only when whites discovered an independent interest in it. For instance, Bell maintains that Brown v. Board of Education happened in part because it provided ''immediate credibility to America's struggle with Communist countries to win the hearts and minds of emerging third-world peoples.'' 
 We have already seen this interest convergence at work in the context of same-sex marriage. In 2006, Arizona voters turned down an amendment to the state Constitution defining marriage as between a man and a woman. The measure's failure has been attributed to the impact it would have had on unmarried straight couples. Opponents of the amendment stressed that under its broad wording, unmarried heterosexual couples might lose health-care coverage or other entitlements.
 In both examples, the majority ''interests'' at stake were primarily self-regarding. That may not bode well for the vote in California, since straight people are unlikely to suffer direct harm to their prestige or well-being if they vote to take marriage away from gays. But such a narrow framing of the ''straight interest'' scants the other interests voters may have, like an interest in living in a more just society or an interest in securing marriage for gay friends or relatives. 
 Faced with a close vote this fall, proponents of the freedom to marry need to find innovative ways for supportive straight couples to express and deepen their commitments. Prior strategies have either asked too much of straights (like asking them to renounce marriage altogether) or, perhaps, too little (like asking them just to do the right thing at the ballot box). There is, however, a middle way.
 Most heterosexual couples are engaged for some period of time before marriage. What if, after getting engaged but before getting married, straight couples entered ''marriage lite'' arrangements akin to those available to gay couples in the state in which they marry? What I would call the Temporary Domestic Partnership Strategy could have several variations.
 First, straights who wish to marry in California or Massachusetts should just do so, as those states do not discriminate against gays and should be rewarded for their inclusive stance by the boost more marriages may give to their economies. In Maine and the District of Columbia, straight couples should consider entering formal domestic partnerships, which are available to straights and are already conveniently structured to terminate when they get married. Seven other states offer civil unions or legal domestic partnerships to gay people but do not let most straight people enter those arrangements. In these jurisdictions, and elsewhere, straight couples could create their own temporary domestic partnerships by writing up contracts that give each partner some of the legal rights and responsibilities associated with marriage. 
 The Temporary Domestic Partnership Strategy asks straights to cross over, in a limited way, from sympathy (pity for the plight of others) to empathy (direct experience of that plight). It seems plausible that if a straight couple experienced a temporary domestic partnership even briefly, they would have a more visceral sense of why gays need the right to marry. For instance, straight couples will find that no contractual arrangement can give them rights against the federal government (which would refuse to issue either partner a green card). Moreover, these couples would experience the importance of the word ''marriage'' when confronted with the question of their marital status in the myriad places that question is posed.
 Perhaps most important, the exercise would underscore the universality of the marriage right by demonstrating how much human flourishing is enabled by the right and how much is impeded by its denial. As many gay rights advocates have claimed, the issue is less one of gay equality than of individual liberty. If more straights could come to see marriage as a universal right that belongs to all human beings, that would, indeed, be a convergence of interest. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN HYERS AND WILLIAM MEBANE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (94%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); APPEALS (73%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



9 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; DODGE JOURNEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Journey: Stigma-Free Stand-In

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
IS the new Dodge Journey just another ho-hum crossover? Is it a sawed-off S.U.V. or a stealthy station wagon? Or is it, just possibly, a minivan in disguise?
 For 2008, Chrysler has eliminated short-wheelbase versions of its Dodge Caravan and Chrysler Town & Country minivans. The 2009 Journey, which is being marketed as a crossover vehicle -- that is, a car-based sport utility -- has effectively taken their place.
 Crossovers are the rage, after all, while other types of family-size vehicles now come with stigmas as standard equipment, to wit: station wagons are old school, S.U.V.'s are planet killers, minivans are for soccer moms. But it is a compliment, I think, to consider the Journey as Chrysler's newest minivan. 
 In terms of size, the Journey is 10 inches shorter than the hulking 2008 Grand Caravan, which is mini in name only, and 11 inches longer than the sensibly small Mazda 5, a Euro-style people mover that also has three rows of seats. 
 The Journey's third row is optional, but in both five- and seven-passenger configurations the Dodge has the utility one expects of a Chrysler van. And it is all wrapped in a stylish package -- stylish, that is, for a minivan (which is admittedly faint praise indeed). 
 Chrysler is trying to woo a newly discovered demographic group: minivan shoppers who are in denial -- or, more euphemistically, ''in transition.'' These image-conscious buyers are either new parents who have not come to terms with trading in the Porsche for a people mover, or empty-nesters unwilling to give up their minivans' utility even though their kids are grown.
 Chrysler unveiled the Journey in Europe last fall -- at the Frankfurt Motor Show -- because it replaces the Voyager minivan sold there. In Euro-spec, the Journey can be a compelling fuel-sipper with its optional Volkswagen-supplied diesel engine capable of nearly 40 m.p.g. (Would it be too much to ask for a diesel to be made available in the United States, too? Apparently so.) 
 In this country, only two gasoline engines are offered. A 2.4-liter 4-cylinder (173 horsepower) is harnessed to a four-speed automatic transmission, which earned a federal economy rating of 19 m.p.g. in town and 25 on the highway. Dodge is promoting this as ''best in class,'' whatever that means. 
 There is also a 3.5-liter V-6 (235 horsepower) with a six-speed automatic, rated at 16/23. The Journey has front drive in its base form, but an all-wheel-drive option is available with the V-6. With that combination, fuel economy drops to 15/22, mainly because the bigger engine and all-wheel-drive components add nearly 500 pounds to the already substantial 3,800-pound curb weight.
 The 4-cylinder provides middling acceleration and is rated to tow 1,000 pounds. The more sprightly V-6 raises towing capacity to 3,500 pounds. 
 Three trim versions are offered: the base SE comes only with the 4-cylinder engine, whereas the midlevel SXT and the R/T have the V-6. The R/T includes sportier suspension tuning and larger 19-inch tires and wheels. Regardless of trim level, the Journey remains mostly mild-mannered, with a compliant, bump-absorbing ride. 
 Lest anyone assume that this is just a tall Avenger-based wagon, Dodge's minivan expertise makes it better than that. The Journey may lead the industry in cubbies per square inch. There are hideaways galore, including double-decker glove boxes (the upper berth is cooled); a covered dashboard bin, where the screen for the optional navigation system goes; and hidden storage under the front-passenger seat. Oops -- now that secret is out.
 Other appreciated features are a standard tilt-and-telescoping steering wheel; a Bluetooth cellphone connection; and optional multimedia entertainment systems with a rear-seat DVD screen and power outlets for small appliances. Parents of toddlers will adore the integrated booster seat cushions in the second-row bench, which can also slide five inches forward and backward. 
 The SE is attractively priced at $19,985, although a loaded R/T tops out around $35,000. Still, the Journey jams a lot of content into a conveniently sized to-go box. And, of course, it's not a minivan. Or is it?
 INSIDE TRACK: Journey, or destination? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); MINIVANS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); EMPTY NESTERS (76%); FAMILY (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (75%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



10 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; Play Magazine; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 4096 words

HEADLINE: AS SEEN ON YOUTUBE (AND PRETTY MUCH ONLY ON YOUTUBE)

BYLINE: By JASON FAGONE. 
Jason Fagone is the author of ''Horsemen of the Esophagus: Competitive Eating and the Fat American Dream.''

 BODY:
When Vova Galchenko juggles, he often dresses in a red tank top and black track pants -- no clown suit, no mime makeup, nothing that comes off as circusy, French or 'gay,' as he puts it. 
 Galchenko is built like a gymnast and approaches juggling like an athlete. Ten minutes into his daily three-hour practice, a little vertical bar of sweat appears between his pecs. At 25 minutes, the bar sprouts two bunny ears, and a stripe down his back turns dark maroon. Galchenko keeps juggling until his whole shirt is sweat-soaked and his arms are tired. This is usually when he starts getting angry at himself and whipping his clubs at the walls. 
 Such was the case last year, when I watched Galchenko try to land a really hard trick in the 12,000-square-foot mansion where he lives in Agoura Hills, Calif., near Malibu. The house is owned by the Bakalors, an American family of Internet entrepreneurs and juggling enthusiasts. Galchenko practices in the living room, designed specifically for juggling. It has 30-foot-high ceilings, a wall of convex glass facing the Santa Monica Mountains and a smooth stone floor that's kept clear so that Galchenko can wander around and work on tricks. The trick he was attempting was called a ''seven-club, five-up 360,'' and it required Galchenko to juggle seven clubs, throw five of the clubs very high and pirouette underneath them. He then had to exchange the two remaining clubs in his hands for two of the plummeting clubs and resume juggling all seven as if it were no big deal.
 The thing that's so hard about this trick is that it combines two tricks that are hard to execute separately -- keeping seven clubs aloft in a pattern known as a cascade and doing a pirouette under five. As far as Galchenko knows, only one other person in the world can pull it off: Anthony Gatto of Cirque du Soleil, an American widely considered to be the world's greatest juggler. Only 20 years old, Galchenko is 15 years younger than Gatto, and may supplant him before long. Galchenko's ''just one of the best that ever lived,'' says Penn Jillette, the vocal half of the magician duo Penn & Teller, who began his showbiz career as a juggler. ''It couldn't be simpler. He can throw more things in the air and catch them in order.'' In juggling, difficulty increases exponentially as you add objects. Three is cake. Five is tricky. Seven approaches physical impossibility. Every throw has to be perfect, describing a precise arc (a gentle, high parabola) with precise spin (each club flipping exactly three times). If one club deviates even slightly, the pattern collapses, and the juggler had better duck unless he wants to get brained.
 For 50 minutes straight, Galchenko tried to bang out the nearly impossible trick. He began each attempt with a seven-club cascade. If the pattern was a good one, tight and stable, five of the clubs would suddenly spurt to the rafters in order to give him room -- and time -- to pull the 360. (This is what Galchenko says he likes about juggling, the ''aesthetic feeling'' of a good pattern: ''It looks nice. And it looks like you could keep going forever. Which, of course, is a false impression.'') But every time he tried to collect the clubs after pirouetting, they were just beyond the reach of his hands. They'd bonk off the floor, skittering in all directions, and Galchenko would scowl and trudge after them and send all seven skyward again, biting his lip, jerking his neck every so often to shake his shaggy mop of brown hair out of his eyes. He never looked down at his hands. The clubs made hollow popping sounds as they slapped against the callused pads on his palms. A half-hour into this, Galchenko finally nailed his first 360 and wrangled the wayward clubs back into a clean cascade, only to drop one. He opened his right hand and said, into his palm, ''Catch,'' like a mother disciplining her kid. ''I cannot juggle anymore,'' he said. He kept at it for 20 minutes longer until, finally, he landed the trick cleanly. Then he landed it again -- then a third time, then a fourth, then a fifth. ''Thank you, Jesus,'' he said.
 Galchenko -- his full name is Vladimir Vasilievich Galchenko, but he's known simply as Vova -- is not a laid-back person, but he is a pretty happy one. ''My life is lovely, for the most part,'' he says. He just finished his freshman year at California State University, Northridge, taking classes in calculus, computer programming and political science. In his free time, he reads about atheism; his blog is probably the only one where you can get both chatty shop talk (''Went through my ball routine with only two drops, which was nice'') and skeptical arguments about religion (''Pascal's Wager has very many flaws. I will go into a couple of them''). Galchenko doesn't drink and generally finds the social rituals of American teenagers screamingly funny, but he's not a loner. He has a girlfriend, a student at Monmouth University in New Jersey who wrote to him after she saw his juggling videos on YouTube. It's only when Galchenko juggles that the sociable side of his persona fades away, replaced by what Mark Bakalor, Galchenko's de facto manager, calls ''the Russian Robot.''
 The Russian Robot never smiles and never bows. He merely executes the hardest moves in the juggling canon -- and some new ones of his own creation -- flawlessly. His only concern is the raw trick itself, stripped of glitz and flourish. ''Artistic expression through juggling . . . I think is [expletive],'' Galchenko says. ''There's nothing you can express through juggling. It's just throwing and catching [expletive].'' The severity and eye-popping virtuosity of this philosophy translate well to YouTube, where the Russian Robot is a quasi-viral phenomenon. His most popular video is a montage of tricks set to music by Fatboy Slim: Galchenko, his hair flopping with the beat, juggles seven balls on the Bakalors' roof, five clubs in the bathroom, seven clubs in the living room, five clubs behind his back, three clubs between his legs (a trick he calls Crotch Madness) and five balls while casually ascending a spiral staircase. The Fatboy Slim video has received more than 650,000 hits; representative viewer comments include ''sick vid,'' ''omg man that waz sweet'' and ''god like!!!''
 Videos of Galchenko passing clubs back and forth with his younger sister, Olga, a champion juggler in her own right, have gotten the siblings on the ''Today'' show, ''The Ellen DeGeneres Show'' and ''The Oprah Winfrey Show'' (clubs whizzed by on either side of Oprah as she stood there with one eye closed). But to a certain kind of hard-core juggler, Galchenko's videos are much more than a daytime diversion. They're akin to holy texts. There are young people all around the world who are learning to juggle not in the old way, by honing their craft in live performances, but by clicking through Galchenko's tricks frame by frame, then filming their own versions of the tricks and uploading the proof to YouTube. These kids are changing the face of juggling, evolving a culture whose values -- speed, numbers, athleticism, technique -- are distinct from the traditional juggling values of balance, expression and showmanship. And that's Galchenko's problem. In the real world, juggling is still largely a showbiz skill, and a marginalized one at that; the vast majority of professional jugglers make their living on cruise ships, juggling machetes and torches for the melanoma set. Galchenko isn't well suited to this world. It's a poorly kept secret that he suffers from crippling stage fright. His hands start to shake before a show. ''Put Vova in Cirque [du Soleil], and he'd die,'' says Jay Gilligan, an accomplished circus performer from Ohio. Galchenko describes it this way: ''Everything seems slow-motion, kind of. Everything feels weird. I don't like that feeling inside of me -- being in front of people, being nervous.''
 It hasn't always been like this for Galchenko. As a kid in Penza, Russia, a medium-size industrial town southeast of Moscow, he didn't have stage fright. His father, Vasili, a math professor, sent him to circus school when he was 4, followed by Olga. The Galchenkos learned to tumble and do handsprings and ride unicycles. ''I was really driven by competition,'' Vova says. ''I wanted to be one of the top kids.'' As the economic situation in Russia deteriorated, Vasili seems to have put his hopes in his son and daughter. He had them do extra juggling at home. He couldn't find proper clubs in Penza, so he had a friend carve a set from blocks of wood. When the kids were 14 and 11, Vasili bought a camcorder, filmed a few videos of Vova and Olga passing clubs back and forth and uploaded them to a primitive Web site.
 Jugglers from America and Europe soon discovered the videos and flooded Vasili with e-mailed praise. Vova and Olga were ''beautiful,'' ''awesome,'' ''inhuman,'' ''silky.'' It was the first time the kids realized they were anything special. ''That's actually really motivating,'' Vova says. They kept posting new videos and eventually began to get invitations to perform abroad. In 2003, they came to America with their mother, Tanya, making their United States debut at that year's International Juggling Association convention in Reno, Nev. That's where Jillette and another juggler, his buddy Owen Morse, first came across the kids, dressed like ''refugees,'' casually passing huge numbers of clubs in a makeshift gym (Jillette remembers 12 clubs, Morse remembers 11). Morse and his partner, Jon Wee, once set a world record for passing 11 clubs with 68 catches. Before Morse's eyes, the Galchenkos were juggling 11 clubs with seemingly hundreds of catches. Morse turned to Jillette and said, ''I've never felt older in my life.''
 After almost a year, Tanya went back to Russia, leaving Vova and Olga to live with a series of jugglers -- first, a middle-aged man in Vermont who performed as Spunky the Clown, then a suburban mom in Boulder, Colo. Eventually, they landed with the Bakalors: Barry; his wife, Sue; and their 30-year-old son, Mark. The family runs a business called Know-Where Systems that provides online store locators for retail chains and corporations. By that time, Olga was burned out. Vova had been hard on her in practices, sometimes screaming when she dropped a club. (The kids' green-card paperwork had stalled, and Vova was worried that if they stopped juggling, they'd get shipped back; the Bakalors helped them finally get their green cards via the same ''extraordinary ability'' exemption often applied to Olympic athletes.) Olga wanted to focus on school -- run track, study, hang out with her friends. Vova was left to figure out what came next. If he was going to keep juggling, he had to become a solo performer. The Bakalors bought him a P.A. system and wrote him a 20-minute comedy routine for street shows, encouraging him to deliver punch lines in an over-the-top Russian accent. But Galchenko didn't want to tell ''cheesy jokes''; he just wanted to juggle. ''Mark and I were cringing, watching him,'' Barry says. Photographs of Galchenko's early street shows depict him on a lonely patch of boardwalk, beanbags in mid-air, beachgoers passing him by.
 Galchenko's act is smoother now, but there are still kinks, as I saw when I tagged along to one of his occasional Sunday afternoon shows at the Third Street Promenade in Santa Monica. Galchenko wheeled his P.A. system to a cobblestone street lined with a Latino break-dancing crew, a garbage-can drummer and a monkey on a leash. It was warm and slightly windy, and the street was full of couples milling around, many of them pushing baby strollers. Galchenko set up shop and pressed ''play'' on his Discman. A muscular male voice boomed, ''Internationally recognized champion juggler. . . . He holds 12 world juggling championship titles. . . . You can see him on ESPN. . . .'' Then, to the Stones' ''Start Me Up,'' Galchenko launched into his act: five balls (''Uh-oh, watch this,'' he said in loud, unaccented English), then seven balls (''I need you guys to go absolutely wild!''), then a complicated, three-club routine set to ''Back in the U.S.S.R.'' The crowd of about a dozen regarded him with quiet smiles.
 As the show went on, Galchenko's tricks got harder and harder, but the crowd only dwindled. Then, with the wind sharpening and the branches of a scraggly tree looming above him, Galchenko juggled seven clubs, clean, on the first try, to polite applause from five or six people who didn't know what they were seeing.
 There are two major juggling conventions in America, each one representing opposing camps in juggling's sport-versus-entertainment debate. Galchenko always attends both. The first is known as W.J.F., which stands for World Juggling Federation, the creation of a 33-year-old juggling instructor named Jason Garfield. The quickest way to get a sense of what Garfield and his organization are about is to scan the rule sheet posted at the sign-in table of last year's W.J.F. 4, held in July inside a vast, dark convention hall in Hartford, Conn. The sheet spelled out prohibitions on clothes (no clown costumes), behavior (no ''acting in a manner that could be considered clown type''), even hygiene (''you must be clean and actively using effective deodorant''), and included a 16-point list of contraband items, such as tie-dyed shirts, court-jester hats, ''unicycles of any length,'' rubber chickens and whips.
 Garfield has labored mightily to make juggling appealing for television, with mixed results. The 2004 and 2005 W.J.F. competitions aired on ESPN and ESPN2, but the ratings were poor and the network dropped the event. Attendance at W.J.F. 4 was sparse, with fewer than 200 die-hard jugglers -- many of them kids, who dragged their parents here from all corners of the globe. The high point came on Day 3, in the W.J.F.'s annual exhibition, which featured Galchenko and his rivals in the juggling equivalent of a jam session. The only requirement was to amaze. One by one, the jugglers walked into a small arena and pulled their sickest, most original tricks -- and then took requests. It was an ideal showcase for Galchenko. Jugglers in the audience yelled out strings of numbers called ''siteswap patterns,'' and Galchenko decoded the numbers into tricks. Using this geeky language, the audience controlled Galchenko like a marionette:
 ''Can you do a 7-4-4 with the 4s as flats?'' someone called out. 
 ''Probably,'' Galchenko said. He tried it, but his clubs kissed in midair, one club then nearly bonking a kid. ''Oh, man,'' he joked. ''I hate it when they touch.''
 ''A five-up, two-stage 720 with singles and doubles?''
 ''A 9-5-5-5 with the 5s as back-crosses?''
 As Galchenko pulled move after move, the kids laughed and shouted, slapped one another's shoulders, made involuntary cooing noises. His enraptured admirers at W.J.F. 4 included Freddy Sheed, 13, from Portsmouth, England -- ''He's got style, he's got tricks, he's technically amazing, he's just so cool'' -- and 13-year-old Jeremy Sacks, from Austin, Tex., who just said, ''Vova's my idol.'' They were in awe of Galchenko's uncommon fluidity and speed. With any given pattern, he can throw in spins (from a 360 to a 1080), or a ''crotch-throw,'' or a ''back-cross,'' or an alternate spin, without needing any time to recover. Galchenko is able to blur the transitions between tricks so completely that it often seems as if he's not doing tricks at all. Instead, he's unspooling a comic monologue about gravity. Athletes often talk of entering a ''zone,'' where they see the action in slow motion. Galchenko can't relate. ''Merely seeing patterns in slow motion won't help, because things don't actually slow down.'' Part of the fun of watching Galchenko is the sense that you're missing things -- the subtle flicks and turns and balance shifts that structure the blur of his clubs. Watch him long enough and your eyes speed up.
 Somebody shouted, ''Singles into five-up singles into back-crosses,'' and everybody laughed. This was a fiendish request: three hard tricks in a row, stitched seamlessly into one monster trick. For a second, it looked as if Galchenko was going to nail it -- the clubs twisted into the air, the kids sucked in their breath and his main competitor at W.J.F., a German technical whiz named Thomas Dietz, leaned way back in his chair and shouted, ''Oh, my Gotttttttt'' -- but a club slipped through his hand at the last minute. ''Hard,'' Galchenko said, with dry understatement.
 The second juggling convention, the I.J.A., is dominated by the artistes, the performers. Last year's I.J.A., held over the course of a clammy midsummer week in Winston-Salem, N.C., was a crucial one for Galchenko: for the first time ever at this event, he would be competing on his own, without Olga. The I.J.A.'s ''individual championships'' are the closest thing in juggling to an Olympic contest. Like figure skating, the acts are judged on a ratio of technique (60 percent) to creative expression (40 percent). Team Bakalor saw this as Galchenko's chance to prove that he was more than just a robot juggler. In the weeks before the event, they were preoccupied with Galchenko's elaborate I.J.A. routine, which would require him to interact with a pretaped version of himself to be shown on a big screen. Real Vova meets Video Vova.
 I found Galchenko preparing in Winston-Salem on the morning of his big performance. He was in the ''gym,'' a long exhibition hall with a hideous orange-and-brown carpet that was full of jugglers, their portable coolers and all their myriad stuff in the air: balls, clubs, rings, hacky sacks, oversize yo-yos, plus enough clown paraphernalia to give Jason Garfield an aneurysm. Galchenko was wearing a T-shirt that said As Seen On YouTube. ''We have prepared nothing,'' he said. Due to logistical delays, the video that was to be the centerpiece of his act had never come together, which meant that Galchenko had all the trappings of a fancy routine -- including what he called ''the gayest costume ever,'' a nautical-looking black shirt with red trim and black sequins -- without any of the fancy content. To make matters worse, the competition looked fierce, with scheduled performances by Dietz and Wes Peden, an 18-year-old from Rochester. Peden is a born-again Christian who says things like ''superfun'' and ''supercool'' and juggles with an infectious glee: the anti-Galchenko. Of all the competitors, he loomed the largest, because of his showbiz X-factor. Still, the Bakalors were confident. Galchenko's planned routine included a long run of seven clubs, as well as several complex tricks with six clubs. As far as they knew, none of these tricks had ever been done before in any competition. Barry believed that if Galchenko ran his routine cleanly, ''Vova wins.''
 Galchenko was set to perform last, the capper to the night's festivities. He waited as Dietz ran a difficult, nearly impeccable routine and as Peden gave a stylish yet sloppy performance, heavy on drops. Finally, it was time. Galchenko took the stage. He smiled and waved: ''Hi.'' There was a peal of nervous laughter from the crowd of 1,000, most of them jugglers.
 Then he picked up three clubs from his prop stand and started juggling. Two-stage 720: clean. Reverse back-crosses plus crotch throws: drop. The Bakalors, waiting in the wings, began to pace. He briefly juggled six clubs and then lost his nerve, cutting out the six-club tricks altogether. Not a good sign. Five balls: drop. Seven balls: clean. He switched to rings. ''These things,'' he joked. Barry put his hand on his head. ''His shoelaces are untied,'' he said.
 Soon Galchenko grabbed two armfuls of clubs and shuffled them between his hands until the balance was right. Everyone knew what was coming. Galchenko sent the seven clubs skyward. There was a gasp -- and five clubs came crashing down. Galchenko shrugged, gathered them and tried again and again without success. Barry frowned. ''He's gonna be pissed about seven clubs,'' he whispered.
 Galchenko finished with a long run of five-club back-crosses set to the cannon blasts of the 1812 Overture -- the hardest club trick anyone had pulled all night -- then walked offstage. Mark hugged him. ''Oh, my God,'' Galchenko said. ''I'm so glad it's done.'' Galchenko and the Bakalors suddenly became very businesslike. They packed up Galchenko's prop stand in silence and walked back to the green room. The contestants were called up for the trophy presentation. The M.C. said, ''Third place . . . Vova Galchenko.'' Dietz took first and Peden second.
 ''Cool,'' Galchenko said, ''I got third.'' He was trying to be gracious, but he was obviously disappointed. He went back to his hotel, flopped onto the bed and said: ''Ahhhhh. I feel free. Free of all this [expletive] now. Ah, dude, I should become something that actually matters.''
 Galchenko has been confused when in the past Americans complain about having ''low self-esteem.'' ''Saying your self-esteem is low is trying to trick people into thinking you're actually worth more than you give yourself credit for,'' he wrote on his blog. ''How pathetic is that?'' Maybe it has to do with growing up in Russia, where life is tough; maybe it's an artifact of Vasili's intense parenting. Whatever the case, Galchenko's unsentimental temperament does have an upside: it helps him recover quickly from setbacks, since he's never particularly surprised by failure. Within a few weeks of the I.J.A., Galchenko was pointing me to a new cache of YouTube videos, filmed on a recuperative trip to his hometown of Penza. In one video, Galchenko juggles on top of an old Soviet tank, and in another, he executes a six-ball 360 in a complex ''half-shower'' pattern while standing in front of a giant statue of Lenin. When he finishes the trick, he chucks three of the balls directly at Lenin's head.
 In the year since his debacle at I.J.A., Galchenko has focused on his marketability and ways to ''redeem'' himself. Recently, Mark Bakalor booked him in a commercial for the Florida state lottery; he was filmed juggling seven lotto balls and getting showered with a rain of cash. Galchenko is also busy editing his first solo juggling DVD, which he promises will feature newer and harder tricks (including a seven-club, seven-up 360), and even some comedy skits. And, of course, the Bakalors have begun working with him on a new routine for this year's I.J.A. convention, which takes place next month in Lexington, Ky. Mark Bakalor has forbidden Galchenko from telling me anything about it, hoping that the routine will hit the juggling community with the force of a revelation, or at least give Galchenko the bones of an act ''he can start selling.''
 But the most unexpected development of Galchenko's spring didn't have anything to do with redemption or commerce. It happened by accident. Early this year, Galchenko realized that he needed a place at Cal State where he could practice his juggling, and the best place was the theater. So Galchenko went to see the head of the department, who put him in touch with a director planning a production of Moliere's comedy ''The Imaginary Invalid.'' He thought Galchenko would be good in it. ''I show up for the audition for the play, all right?'' Galchenko says. ''The director, he says, 'Pretend you're a French lover, and you're in the woods, and you're blind and deaf, and you're trying to find your lover in the woods.' I'm like, 'What the [expletive], what's that?' I guess he liked me.''
 The director wrote Galchenko's special abilities into the play, which finished its run in early May. In one scene, Galchenko juggled five bags of money; in another, two mallets and a machete. He also ate apples while juggling. Basically, he did all the stuff the Bakalors could never get him to do -- and he never dropped a thing. Galchenko says he thinks the play itself was ''a lot funnier than I would have thought,'' although it took him a while to get used to hanging out with a bunch of theater majors every day. ''Mostly I just feel really embarrassed for both myself and the people there,'' he says. ''But I think it's getting less with time. . . . You know, they like me, and I like them.''
 Galchenko tells this story in his usual self-mortified, isn't-it-hilarious-how-lame-I-am? tone, but there's something else in his voice too: pleasant surprise. ''See, I'm a thespian,'' he says, lingering on the word -- its pompous, vaguely filthy sound. ''I'm a thespian, and I'm very proud of that.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DON'T CALL ME AN ARTISTE: Galchenko, the anti-showerman, likes the privacy of his roof (preceding pages and above) (pg.62 and pg.65)
MAKING FRIENDS WITH GRAVITY: At home, Galchenko can keep a seven-club cascade going for minutes. Onstage, he's not always so lucky. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF MINTON
 JONATHAN DE VILLIERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.67) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); MOUNTAINS (51%)

PERSON: PENN JILLETTE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



11 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1794 words

HEADLINE: Roads to Recognition That Were Really Short

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
BROADWAY debuts ain't what they used to be. Oh, they're nice and all, but consider this: On each of the four shows nominated for a Tony Award for best musical, at least one major creative player is doing this whole professional theater thing for the first time. Not just Broadway debuts; theater debuts. We're talking people who have no experience in their field, no years on the regional circuit, no resume of Off Broadway shows, no Playbill credits that cause an expectant theatergoer to point and whisper: ''Ech. I saw that. I can only assume he's improved.'' Like, none (O.K., with a little fudging in places). 
 Here are their stories.
 'Cry-Baby' 
 The grandparents of Adam Schlesinger, who was nominated, with David Javerbaum, for best score for the Tony-nominated show ''Cry-Baby,'' run a company in Syracuse called Famous Artists Broadway Series, which presents touring theatrical productions. That counts for something. He did go to a few Broadway shows while growing up in Montclair, N.J. And he tried acting when he was really young (''Oliver!'' and ''Our Town''). But all of that soon gave way to the seductive life of rock 'n' roll.
 Sitting in his studio in Chelsea, a few feet from a foosball table, as various long-haired men came and went carrying variously shaped black cases, one would be hard-pressed to say that Mr. Schlesinger, 40, chose poorly. But after putting together a successful career as a composer of film scores and as the bassist for Fountains of Wayne, Mr. Schlesinger was contacted by a producer of ''Cry-Baby.'' He's not even sure how his name got on a list. 
 Five years later, though, he can talk about how putting on a Broadway show is not like playing in a band. For one thing there are lots of cooks. 
 ''As I got more involved with it, the differences became more apparent,'' he said. ''Everything I work on is collaborative to a certain degree, but the way in which Broadway is collaborative is much more intense.''
 He continued: ''There are certain projects where they're one person's baby and everyone else is trying to make that person happy, but this wasn't that. It's more a true democracy.''
 The choreographer gives tips to the composer, who gives some notes to an actor, who has a suggestion for the lyricist, who has an idea for the director. Part of this is because the creative process is so long in theater. 
 ''It's really never done until opening night,'' he said. ''There's always a better idea for something. With a movie it's 'this thing's got to be in the can for next Thursday.' At a certain point it's hard to have any perspective when you've tried to think about the same thing 18 different ways.''
 Mr. Schlesinger's grandfather, who knows what the end product of all this is supposed to look like, eventually came to town to give ''Cry-Baby'' a look at the Marquis Theater.
 ''We brought him for his 97th birthday,'' Mr. Schlesinger said proudly. Then he added, ''I don't know how much he could actually hear until we got him the hearing devices halfway through.''
 'Xanadu'
 Here's where the fudging comes in. In fairness, all of the lead producers of ''Xanadu,'' Douglas Carter Beane's candy-colored goof on the very bad 1980 Olivia Newton-John movie, have worked in theater in some capacity. But none have been at the helm of a Broadway show before, and two of them have never produced any professional theater at all. Robert Ahrens, 38, has worked in the theater as a general manager but had most of his experience in film and television. Brian Swibel, 27, had been a producer of an Off Broadway show, alongside the much more experienced Harriet Leve, and a couple of shows regionally. Tara Smith, 27, whose production experience is in reality television, has written and is producing a play, though it is still at the development stage. 
 It did not take long for them to learn their first lesson in major-league producing: lots and lots of bluffing. Jane Krakowski, the big name attached to ''Xanadu,'' pulled out before rehearsals began, and the three had to give a Knute Rockne speech to the nervous creative team.
 ''We left the meeting where we had fully pledged that we were capable of moving forward knowing that in 48 hours we wouldn't have a theater if we didn't give them a certain amount of money,'' Ms. Smith said. ''We would go to bed on Tuesday feeling great, then wake up Wednesday and there would be another catastrophe.''
 Like, oh, that time in rehearsal, when, as Mr. Ahrens put it, ''Our star broke his leg in three places.''
 And the very day they learned about that injury to James Carpinello, Mr. Swibel said, ''a leak sprung in the theater, spraying water all over the stage.''
 Ms. Smith asked, ''And the next day, didn't we have a fire?'' 
 The preopening chatter was so dismissive that Mr. Swibel sent an assistant to the New York Public Library to research shows that were unanimously panned. 
 It was all for naught. ''Xanadu,'' improbably enough, got some of the season's best reviews. The one in The New Yorker was downright hyperbolic. Have the producers made mistakes? Sure. The show has been struggling at the box office at the Helen Hayes Theater for months. 
 But some mistakes, like not spending as much as they wanted on advertising, were forced by economic necessity. And moves that raised industry eyebrows have borne surprising results. If the producers had staged ''Xanadu'' off Broadway rather than on Broadway, as some have insisted they should have done, they would not have discovered that the show is more popular with tourists than New Yorkers. They would not be making licensing deals with foreign countries. And they certainly would not have had a shot at the Tony.
 ''I think in this type of an industry,'' Mr. Ahrens said, ''you can be an expert, but there's still a whole lot of gray.''
 'In the Heights'
 For Lin-Manuel Miranda, 28, the doubly nominated creator and star of ''In the Heights,'' the biggest discovery was food. As in, you have to eat it.
 ''I would try to do a matinee on the coffee and a muffin and be like, 'Hey, why is everything getting so hazy?' '' he said, sitting in a booth at a diner on West 60th Street. ''I was eating whatever would get me through. I didn't even know the food groups.''
 A waiter passed, and Mr. Miranda pounced. ''Can I get some matzo ball soup?''
 Mr. Miranda came up with ''In the Heights,'' a portrait of Latino families in way uptown Manhattan, while a sophomore at Wesleyan University. A couple of people who heard it suggested he work with a recent Wesleyan graduate, the director Thomas Kail, whose company was operating out of the basement of the Drama Book Shop on West 40th Street.
 They met right after Mr. Miranda graduated and began developing the show in the basement, often with a small band. They would not labor in obscurity for long; some big-name producers saw it early on and began shepherding the project through the development process.
 For seven years they worked on the show, writing songs and throwing them out, rearranging scenes, adding and dropping characters.
 And then, on March 9, something odd happened. The show opened on Broadway.
 Mr. Kail, 31, who was sitting next to Mr. Miranda in the booth, said he still has work to do at the Richard Rodgers Theater: understudy rehearsals, occasional directorial tightening. But much of the creative work, the squeezing and stretching of the show like Play-Doh for seven years, is done. 
 ''It's like Lin and I helped build this house,'' Mr. Kail said. ''He lives in that house. I don't live in the house. I have keys, but there's nowhere for me to go.''
 Now a Tony-nominated director, he doesn't need to hang out in basements. He's directing a play at the Williamstown Theater Festival in Massachusetts this summer. Mr. Miranda, nominated for best original score and best performance by an actor in a musical, is still playing eight shows a week in the house and is mulling over the profound lessons he has learned.
 ''I've been trying to think about it,'' he said. ''But it just goes back to food.''
 'Passing Strange'
 Of all those making their theater debuts, none is debutier than Stew's. From his comfortable existence in the land of rock 'n' roll he was dragged kicking and screaming to Broadway. 
 While you might describe Stew's show, ''Passing Strange,'' as a narrative rock concert, a performance piece, a musico-theatra-whatever, it was nominated in the Tony category of best musical, an honor it shares with ''Mame'' and ''Once Upon a Mattress.'' Stew, 46, who is quadruply nominated himself (best score and orchestrations -- both with Heidi Rodewald -- as well as book and performance by a leading actor in a musical), had some ideas about musicals: ''people desperately trying to make the audience love them, which is the opposite of the rock 'n' roll persona,'' he said, digging into some escargot at a restaurant near the Belasco Theater, where ''Passing Strange'' is playing. 
 Stew was hesitant when the folks at the Public Theater suggested he make what had essentially been a cabaret piece into a work of theater. Meaning something with actors. Stew, who grew up in Los Angeles, had some ideas about actors: ''The mortal enemies in my high school were the thespians and the stoner rock kids.''
 But even after that happened, when his show opened in 2007 at the Public after five years of workshops and development -- hey, at least it was below 14th Street.
 Then Gerald Schoenfeld of the Shubert Organization and Elizabeth Ireland McCann -- two, ahem, veteran Broadway hands -- decided they wanted to take this rock show to the Great White Way. And Stew, well, he had some ideas about theater above 14th Street.
 ''I'm being completely honest with you right now,'' he said. ''I thought they were crazy. I never saw the potential for this kind of strange story. I wasn't sure if everybody uptown would laugh at the Camus joke. I was completely prejudiced.''
 But he learned. He learned there are joys in the technical precision that theater demands, just as there are joys in the messy improvisation of rock 'n' roll. He learned that Broadway types are obsessive about lyrics and rhyme schemes in a way you don't often come across below 14th Street. He learned that uptown theatergoers are quieter and less responsive but no less attentive. 
 ''I've had to learn how to read these audiences because it is not the same,'' he said. ''They're getting it. They're just getting in a way we're not used to. It's like suddenly someone telling you you have to walk differently.''
 Think Broadway can't change people? Listen to Stew now:
 ''I always hated when people said this,'' he acknowledged, laughing at what was about to come out of his mouth, ''but I swear it's just great to be nominated.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, the lead producers of the nominated musical ''Xanadu'': from left, Brian Swibel, Robert Ahrens and Tara Smith. At right, with his guitar: the multiply nominated Stew, of ''Passing Strange.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Above, Lin-Manuel Miranda (nominated for his score and acting), left, and Thomas Kail (nominated for directing) of ''In the Heights.'' Far right, Adam Schlesinger, a nominee for the score of ''Cry-Baby.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); POP & ROCK (77%); SONG WRITING (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (56%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



12 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Setting Politics Aside to Help Victims of China Earthquake

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
In the three weeks since the earthquake ravaged China's Sichuan Province, the Chinese-American community that stretches from Chinatown in Lower Manhattan to the large enclaves on the West Coast has contributed millions of dollars to relief efforts, dwarfing past fund-raising campaigns.
 The emergency has temporarily unified the various and sometimes competing strands of the Chinese diaspora, including anti-Communist groups, which have suspended their political animosities toward Beijing for now, to support the victims of the earthquake. 
 In New York, one of the biggest fund-raisers has been the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association, a historically anti-Communist and pro-Taiwanese umbrella group of Chinese social and business groups, and one of the oldest Chinese organizations in the city. 
 As of Friday, the association had raised more than $800,000, its largest fund-raising drive in its recent history, said Johnson Lee, secretary of the association, which was founded in New York's Chinatown in 1883. 
 ''We're not responding to the government,'' he said. ''We're responding to the people. We're all the same people.'' 
 Justin Yu, the association's president, added: ''I have nothing to do with the Beijing government. I didn't connect with them before, I don't have any relations with them now, I don't plan to have any relations with them in the future. But the people of Sichuan are my people.'' 
 In recent years, the association has participated in several fund-raising drives to benefit victims of natural disasters on the mainland, including a severe winter storm that struck southern China this year and the devastating floods in 2003. 
 To circumvent the Chinese government, the association is forwarding its donations to the American Red Cross, which in turn is sending them directly to the Red Cross Society of China, Mr. Yu said.
 In addition to groups throughout the Chinese diaspora, Taiwan's government and private sector have provided China with assistance, said Ben Shao, spokesman for the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in New York, Taiwan's de facto consulate here. The Taiwanese government plans to donate a total of $67 million in aid, and private companies have donated about $83 million, he said. 
 In addition, Taiwan's new president, Ma Ying-jeou, who is viewed as more pro-Chinese than his predecessor, has donated $6,500 of his own money to inspire ''all individuals in Taiwan'' to help, Mr. Shao said. 
 According to China's mission to the United Nations, as of Friday, a total of more than $5.3 billion in earthquake relief money and services had been donated in China and abroad.
 The fund-raising by groups on both sides of the Taiwan-China political divide comes amid an apparent warming in relations between the two. Wu Poh-hsiung, chairman of Mr. Ma's Nationalist Party, crossed the 100-mile-wide Taiwan Strait, which separates the island from the mainland, and met with President Hu Jintao. The sides agreed to end a nine-year freeze on formal talks about tourism and the start of regular direct charter flights between them. 
 China has sought to assert sovereignty over Taiwan since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949, an effort that Taiwan's leaders have rejected. But with Mr. Ma's election in March as Taiwan's president, relations between the two governments have warmed.
 Russell C. Leong, adjunct professor of Asian-American studies at the University of California, Los Angeles and the editor of Amerasia Journal, said these diplomatic overtures had most likely encouraged more donations for earthquake relief by groups loyal to Taiwan.
 ''Things have loosened up, providing people with breathing space to do these things,'' he said.
 But John C. Liu, a New York City councilman who immigrated from Taiwan when he was a child, said he doubted that a possible reconciliation between the two sides would have an impact on Chinese-American charity. 
 ''No matter how friendly or hostile the governments may be across the Strait, the response from the community would've been overwhelming,'' said Mr. Liu, who represents Flushing, Queens, which has a huge Chinese enclave. ''This is about the simple reality that many people are dead and many, many more are injured or homeless.'' 
 Chinese-American groups in New York and elsewhere have mobilized for numerous other humanitarian causes, including relief after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004 and Hurricane Katrina in 2005. 
 But the fund-raising efforts since the May 12 earthquake in Sichuan, which killed more than 68,000 people, have surpassed earlier efforts, according to leaders of Chinese-American groups around the country. 
 The contributions have flowed at benefit concerts and opera performances, in response to postal and e-mail solicitations, and on the sidewalks of Chinatown here, where volunteers have set up donation boxes on folding tables. 
 Helen Thong, the owner of Taste Good, a popular Malaysian restaurant in Elmhurst, Queens, held a benefit on Wednesday, allocating the day's proceeds -- more than $9,000 -- to earthquake relief. At dinnertime, the line of patrons, representing a broad swath of the Chinese diaspora, snaked out the door of the small restaurant and onto the sidewalk.
 ''You see those pictures on TV, right?'' she said. ''The children and the people who are helpless under the rubble? It breaks your heart. Basically we are all human. We have compassion. That's what motivates us.'' 
 Even practitioners of Falun Gong, the spiritual movement outlawed in China, have contributed, said Gail Rachlin, a spokeswoman for the movement in New York. ''It's on an individual basis,'' she said. ''When we do get together, people mention that they've donated.'' 
 In recent days, supporters of Falun Gong in New York have held several demonstrations against the Chinese government.
 In Los Angeles, where the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association raised about $200,000 in a one-day benefit, Peter Ng, the group's president, said the earthquake ''is definitely a tragic thing, but it has kind of opened up everybody's mind.''
 ''Every facet of the Chinese in the world has done that,'' he added. ''It's unprecedented.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Volunteers at the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association on Mott Street collecting contributions for earthquake relief.
 From left, Sheung Ying Ng, Wee Wong and Yuk Tsun Wang counted donations. The group has raised more than $800,000. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CHINESE CONSOLIDATED BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); SICHUAN, CHINA (88%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



13 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; MODERN LOVE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1680 words

HEADLINE: My Dropout Boyfriend Kept Dropping In

BYLINE: By LEE CONELL. 
Lee Conell, a runner-up in the Modern Love college essay contest, recently completed her junior year at the State University of New York at New Paltz.

 BODY:
IN April of my freshman year, my boyfriend, Terry, decided he wanted to be homeless. Among the decisions I expected a college-age boyfriend to make (changing cellphone plans, or maybe going vegan), homelessness was not one of them.
 Still, I took the situation calmly. I had known Terry since high school and had watched him pass through various phases: Goth, punk, anarchist, Marxist and Zen. When he explained that he was giving up his room to live on the farms and in the woods surrounding our Hudson Valley college town, I did not make a scene. I told myself this, too, would pass and politely asked him why he did not want to live in a house.
 ''I want to try to exist as free from material stuff as possible,'' he said.
 I squinted at him. ''But I like your apartment. It's in a great location.'' 
 Terry looked straight into my eyes. ''This is just something I have to do for myself.''
 I didn't say anything. It's hard to argue with that personal power stuff.
 Over dinner that evening, I told a girl who lived in my dorm about Terry's plan. ''I'm really worried about it,'' I said.
 A matter-of-fact business major from Brooklyn, she blurted, ''He's crazy!'' She plunged her fork into a pile of rice, and then offered a thinly veiled criticism of me: ''I would never put up with that.''
 ''He's not so crazy,'' I told her. ''He's going to be saving a lot of money. And I can understand wanting to feel close to nature.''
 ''No,'' she said. ''He's definitely crazy.''
 My roommate was equally nonplused. Where would he keep his stuff or brush his teeth? Could a city kid like him really transition into the life of an ascetic? 
 I had no answers. How would I explain his decision to others? Shouldn't I have seen this coming? Several months earlier, Terry had given me the book ''Into the Wild'' for Valentine's Day (because nothing says ''I love you'' like the story of a young man starving to death in the Alaskan wilderness). That should have been a clue. 
 Luckily, Terry wouldn't have to worry about starvation in his own foray: he had a girlfriend with a college meal plan. I pictured myself sneaking cookies out of the dining hall and heading into the woods. People would think I was harboring an escaped convict.
 An Oprah-esque voice in my head said: It doesn't matter what people think as long as he feels fulfilled. But another voice in my head, the one that avoided self-help books and talk shows, was less convinced. That voice told me times had changed, and we weren't in high school anymore. 
 Back then, before we started dating, Terry's acts of rebellion had impressed and attracted me. Just standing next to him, a boy who wore eyeliner and a safety pin through his eyebrow, was an easy and efficient way for me to act out. But I hadn't been Terry's friend only for rebellion's sake. At heart, I understood and agreed with many of his ideas. I just expressed my agreement quietly. 
 His Zen phase, for example, occurred at the same time as mine, in sophomore year of high school. But while I meditated alone in my bedroom, Terry would meditate publicly: in our high school hallway, on the subway and even, as a photograph I have demonstrates, under a fountain at the Cloisters in New York City (his lined eyelids shut serenely, legs crossed in lotus, bemused museum visitors stopping to stare). 
 In another photograph from the same day, I also sit under that fountain, but my eyes are wide open and I'm smiling sheepishly, aware of how I stick out, a teenager crouched on the ground, surrounded by medieval art. 
 We were attending separate colleges when Terry and I started dating in our freshman year, but after several months Terry, unhappy with school, dropped out.
 This I defended to friends who gaped at the news by telling them that he was acting against the system, against the overplanned life of studying, choosing our majors, plotting out our meek life goals. What Terry was doing, I told them, was courageous, and I supported his decision even as I spent my nights in the library working wholly within the system to plot out my very own meek life goals.
 When he rented a room in my college town and took a job as a taxi dispatcher, I was glad to have him nearby. Still, with the outdoors experiment beginning, I wasn't sure how his roof-free life would mesh with my own. I had thought the enormous buildup to college -- APs, SATs, and other nefarious acronyms -- was supposed to pave the way to middle-class normalcy, which didn't involve having to deal with decisions like Terry's.
 Sure, you might get involved in the occasional good-natured protest, but over all once you attended college, you were on the straight-and-narrow path. Or at least, if the economy didn't sink, you were on the non-homeless path.
 If Terry began to spend his free time lost in the woods finding himself, meditating next to a squirrel, in a state of perpetual nirvana, where would that leave me? Laboring away under fluorescent lighting? Of course, that was what I had chosen, just as I had chosen to smile for the camera under the fountain at the Cloisters while Terry sought the meaning of life in the same spot.
 It was growing dark. I had an essay to start, a test coming up. Then there would be laundry to do, followed by several halfhearted attempts at matching socks and cleaning my side of the room. I took a deep breath and looked out my window. As I watched the light change, I thought of Terry underneath that sky.
 Then I realized that I was jealous. 
 What sort of lessons would I learn if I fell asleep each night under the stars? What would happen if I left school and followed Terry's footsteps? I knew I wouldn't do it, being overly fond of my books, my room's four walls and the Internet. Still, I couldn't stop one image from transposing itself onto my textbooks: me, lying by a brook at night, listening to its babbling, knowing I was going down my own wide-open path. 
 But once the experiment was under way, I realized that even when you are fully committed to treading that unbeaten path, it's not so easy to lose yourself in the woods, particularly if you're from Queens and scared of the dark. On one of his first nights outdoors, around midnight, Terry called me at my dorm. In a small voice he asked, ''Can I come over?''
 He had been trying to sleep in an apple orchard. As darkness enveloped him, the apple trees began to look less like trees and more like zombies with skeleton hands. Terry was frightened by the scuttling sounds in the bushes, and just as frightened when the sounds stopped.
 ''It's really dark,'' he said in a hollow, frightened voice. ''I'm worried the farmer might find me and shoot me.'' 
 So I told him to come by. And I made the same offer again and again over the following weeks, when around midnight my phone would ring, and Terry would ask me for shelter. He would say it was too cold for him to sleep outdoors, or that he thought he heard rabid dogs, or that the night seemed particularly dark.
 Although he did manage to spend a bunch of full nights out there somewhere, he only became edgier as the experiment continued. Whenever I saw him early in the day, if he wasn't cranky from sleep deprivation, he would be twitchy with anxiety, watching the sky for the looming dark, for a sign that the time of terror approached. Conversation centered on where his sleeping spot for the night would be, and how cold Weather.Com said it would become. 
 I couldn't help but entertain the waysI would have done things differently if I were in his shoes, taking advantage of the peace in a way he seemed unable to do: sitting serenely in the wilderness, studying the movements of the stars, composing poetry about humanity's unbalanced relationship with the natural world and communing with the Disney-eyed wildlife around me. I would certainly not be scared of the dark and a few barking dogs.
 Deep down, though, I knew I would be just as scared, or even more scared. And so I felt a little triumphant every time Terry's experiment went south, which happened often enough.
 ONE night, bedded down by a river, he fell asleep with pepper spray in his grasp. Later he brushed his face with the back of his hand and immediately his eyes began to burn. Pepper spray had gotten onto his skin. Eyes smarting and sleep impossible, he walked out of the wooded area and into town, where he spent a few hours sleeping at a coin laundry before being awakened by the police. They threatened to arrest him, but let him go because they were impressed he had a legitimate day job.
 That dispatcher job would prove handy during Terry's time outdoors, as it provided him with a bathroom for tooth brushing and face washing, two activities that became difficult in the wilderness. Dorms were useful for showering. The grungier Terry looked, the easier it was for him to pass as a college student, so it wasn't difficult for him to sneak into campus bathrooms.
 Still, amid the run-in with the police, sleep deprivation and treks to showers, the ideology behind his experiment began to melt away. This became clear to me after I told him that the hunger and homelessness group on campus was doing a ''sleep out.'' Students would spend one night sleeping outside a campus building to raise awareness about homelessness.
 ''Oh!'' Terry exclaimed happily. ''Maybe I'll do it with them. It'd be less scary if I could sleep near other people.''
 Not long after, he began spending most nights on the foldout couch outside my dorm room. In June he rented a room, at which point the experiment was declared over.
 ''Terry's living indoors now!'' I bragged to friends. 
 Terry and I are still seeing each other, and he continues to live under a roof.
 But my happiness at the experiment's failure had a darker side. In truth I had enjoyed watching his forays into the wilderness fail night after night because each retreat made me feel better, even superior, about my own safe choices: roof, college, stability. And Terry's final surrender only drove home the point.
 This was hardly something to celebrate, and the dreamer in me knew it.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHER SILAS NEAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEAT FREE DIETS (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); STARVATION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



14 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Many Taxpayers' Rebate Checks Go to Bills, Gas or Even Savings

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN; Reporting was contributed by Mary M. Chapman in Detroit, Marina Trahan Martinez in Dallas, Michael Parrish in Los Angeles and David Schwartz in Phoenix.

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
The federal government is showering households with tax rebates to spur spending and invigorate a troubled economy. But many Americans are so consumed with debt and the soaring price of gasoline that they are opting to save the money or use it to pay bills, according to surveys, sales data and interviews with people from Florida to California.
 Between late April and the end of last week, the Treasury handed out more than $50 billion of the $100 billion in tax rebates it plans to distribute to 132 million households. But only once in the last six weeks have chain stores registered an increase in sales, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, whose weekly sales survey is a widely watched barometer.
 ''The initial sense is that people are not running out to the malls to spend their checks,'' said Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at the PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh. ''It's not quite proving to be a hot potato that's burning a hole in people's pockets.'' 
 Here in Miami, where the economy remains stuck in the orbit of plummeting real estate prices, Guillermo Gonzalez is one of those using their tax rebates to dig out of debt. 
 A wine salesman who makes about $60,000 a year, Mr. Gonzalez received $1,033 via direct deposit. He understood the implicit invitation to spend it on a new gadget or a family vacation, but he was behind on his house payments, he said. As gasoline costs have doubled in recent months, and as grocery prices have spiraled higher, he has been struggling to pay the bills. With a click of the mouse, he sent the whole rebate to the mortgage company. 
 ''They think they give you a check to go out and spend some money, but it's not enough,'' said Mr. Gonzalez. ''The dollar doesn't buy anything anymore. The way the economy is going, people are too scared to spend.''
 Economists emphasize that the data remains preliminary, making it too early to assess the effectiveness of the rebates. And those who are paying off bills are potentially clearing the path for more spending later on. 
 Most experts assume that over the next six months, Americans will spend somewhere between 20 and 50 percent of their tax rebates, much like the last time the government took out its checkbook in such fashion, in 2001. That would mean $20 billion to $50 billion in fresh spending washing through the economy.
 Given that consumer spending amounts to 70 percent of all American economic activity, such a surge should keep the economy growing at a modest rate through much of the summer, economists say. It would moderate layoffs if companies, buoyed by resurging sales, hang on to workers.
 But by late in the year, experts say, the effects of the rebates will wear off, leaving the economy grappling with the same ills gnawing at it now: tight credit, making it hard for businesses to expand and consumers to borrow; a deteriorating job market, which is eroding paychecks; and falling real estate prices.
 ''We don't think this will fundamentally cycle up the economy,'' said Andrew Tilton, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs. ''For a few months, you will see a noticeable uptick, but as you get to the fall and winter that goes away, and then you're looking at all these unresolved problems.'' 
 The most immediate question is whether the short-term gains will materialize -- whether Americans will retain their willingness to consume, even in the face of economic strain. 
 For months, Americans have heard that the current troubles stem from an extravagant disregard of basic arithmetic. Families have lived in excess of their incomes, floated by credit cards and loans against the value of their homes. Now, the government is imploring Americans to spend anew, presenting a mixed message.
 Recent surveys underscore that many households are now too worried about the rising cost of driving and eating to spend freely, even as cash lands in their laps.
 A February survey by the National Retail Federation extrapolated that about 12 million rebate recipients planned to use some of the money to buy gasoline. By May, the number had grown to 17.2 million -- a jump of more than 40 percent.
 Another survey by the International Council of Shopping Centers found that those planning to use rebate checks to largely pay down debt jumped to 51 percent of respondents in mid-May from 46 percent in February.
 At retail outlets across the country, many merchants say they have yet to enjoy a bump up in business from the tax rebates.
 ''We haven't seen the effect,'' said Tony Khoury, the store director at a Ralphs supermarket in the West Adams district of Los Angeles, a largely African-American and Hispanic part of town. ''For people here, what's on sale this week is what they'll have for dinner. They just live day to day.'' 
 In Southfield, Mich., a suburb of Detroit, sales at a Lowe's home improvement store have been flat despite a promotion inviting customers to cash their rebate checks, said the manager, Chad Ratliff. 
 But lest one get the idea that the United States has suddenly turned into a land of tightwads, consider the scene at HowISpentMyStimulus.com, a Web site created by a freelance writer in Brooklyn, Rudy Adler. People across the country have been posting details of their spending. A spirit of free-money frivolity reigns.
 ''I'm goin' to Disneyworld,'' proclaimed a mother of three in Sioux Falls, S.D. A man in Johnson City, Tex., said he planned to use his rebate to send his chocolate Labrador retriever puppy to hunting dog school. A Houston couple took their rebate to Las Vegas and lost it all. In Hampton, Va., Diana Donahoo, 29, posted a picture of her finger sporting a diamond-studded engagement ring financed by the largess of Uncle Sam.
 For some Americans, spending their rebate has become almost a national imperative.
 ''We're going to buy a 42-inch television,'' said William Meiklejohn, a self-employed computer technician, as he strolled through The Falls, a high-end shopping center south of downtown Miami, set around palm-fringed pools.
 His annual income has dropped over the last year from about $100,000 to more like $80,000 as the economy has slid, Mr. Meiklejohn said. But he and his wife own their home and their two cars clear of debt, he said. Their two children are grown and married. No sense stashing their $1,200 tax rebate in a savings account.
 ''If I spend it, it stimulates the economy,'' Mr. Meiklejohn said. ''If people go around paying off bills, it's not going to make any difference.''
 In the town of Buckeye, Ariz., just west of Phoenix, Shawn and Leslie De Jesus used their $2,400 rebate to add a second car, a 1992 champagne-colored Toyota Camry. Mr. De Jesus, a utility worker, said he brings home about $60,000 a year. Ms. DeJesus takes care of their four children, with a fifth on the way.
 ''It's hard for a family of seven to be able to save money,'' said Ms. De Jesus, 29. ''We needed something like this.''
 For some, the rebates seem like a trifling compensation handed out by the same administration whose tax cuts and expensive foreign adventures have damaged the economy.
 ''It's insulting and patronizing to try to satisfy a whole nation of people with a little payout,'' said Joy Osmanski, 32, an actress in Los Angeles. ''To think it's actually going to inject the economy with anything -- that's bogus.''
 In lower-income households, the money has been quicklyapplied to a backlog of unpaid bills, or set aside amid a spirit of hunkering down.
 ''Times are tough,'' said Lili Gomez, a 54-year-old property manager in Miami who makes about $45,000 a year. She has become the sole breadwinner since her husband, Alejandro, was recently injured at work. When the $1,100 rebate check came, they put it in savings.
 ''These days, you never know what can happen, and we're at an age where we feel like we need to save,'' she said.
 In Dallas, Steven Snow, 60, and his wife, Julia, quickly used up their $600 on gas and groceries. 
 ''We spent it just trying to live,'' Mr. Snow said. ''They wanted everyone to spend it on stuff they don't need from Wal-Mart and Home Depot. But really, how far does $600 go?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alejandro and Lili Gomez of Miami put their check into savings. ''These days,'' she said, ''you never know what can happen, and we're at an age where we feel like we need to save.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: HOW ARE TAXPAYERS PLANNING TO SPEND THEIR STIMULUS CHECKS: 51% won't buy anything with it. 49% will spend some or all of it. (Source: Goldman Sachs) A breakdown of how people are planning to use their economic stimulus check. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GASOLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FOOD PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); LAYOFFS (63%); SALES REBATES (58%)

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (57%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



15 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Using It Before Losing It

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND. 
John Leland is a reporter at The Times and the author of ''Why Kerouac Matters: The Lessons of 'On the Road' (They're Not What You Think).''

 BODY:
LEISUREVILLE 
 Adventures in America's Retirement Utopias. 
 By Andrew D. Blechman. 
 244 pp. Atlantic Monthly Press. $25. 
 Secession movements are an American instinct, and Andrew D. Blechman sees one afoot in the migration of young, well-off retirees to the land of golf and sunshine. ''I could feel it,'' he writes, watching his sprightly New England neighbors pack up for Florida. ''I suspected that the Andersons were in the vanguard of a significant cultural shift.'' 
 And with this suspicion Blechman disappears down the rabbit hole, following his neighbors from their unnamed New England town to the Villages, ''the largest gated retirement community in the world,'' a 20,000-acre subdivision that sprawls across three counties and two ZIP codes, with its own news media and private quasi government. If you are squeamish at the thought of people over 55 socializing, having sex, drinking, smoking pot, line dancing and saying they are happy with their lives, avert your eyes now. ''I'm so horny,'' an attractive middle-aged woman tells the author, giving him a how-do-you-do pat on the behind. ''I gotta use it before I lose it!'' 
 Well. 
 As Blechman notes toward the end, retirees may in fact be losing interest in golfistans like the Villages, which makes ''Leisureville'' perhaps less about the vanguard of a cultural shift than a parting glance at a fading consumer vision. Baby boomers say they want to work in retirement and stay where they are. But it is at times a fascinating glance. Organized around recreation and promotion, the Villages welcomes residents with a ubiquitous radio station that repeats, ''It's a beautiful day in the Villages!'' and maps that depict the outside world as ''a white void.'' Residents drive $25,000 golf carts to prefab downtowns, complete with histories invented by the developer, where cover bands play ''Brick House.'' Not having children around seems to free the retirees to act like adolescents. Frank, a man in his 70s who is said to have had two heart attacks and a stroke, is asked to describe his typical day. ''Get high and play Nintendo,'' he says. ''I'm not much of a cook, so I just eat a lot of pepperoni.'' A nation of college students has found its gray figurehead.
 In the absence of local government, the Villages' management exercises nearly unchecked control over the homeowners' dues, engaging in conflicts of interest that enrich the developer but arouse little complaint from the residents -- and none from the company-run Daily Sun newspaper, which reaches 90 percent of the homes. ''Just as long as they keep this place looking so nice, and they keep on building more golf courses, then I'm happy,'' Betsy Anderson tells Blechman. ''And frankly, I don't care how much the developer makes. He's done such a great job.'' More insidious, communities like the Villages wield heavy economic and political clout within their regions -- generally chosen for cheap land and pliable local governments -- and have little interest in civic necessities like school systems, rec centers or curbs on growth. 
 Blechman, the father of a young child, descends with a point of view. Retirement utopias, which first appeared in Arizona in the 1950s, are made possible by court decisions allowing segregation by age, where comparable segregation by race or religion would shock the conscience. Retirees like the Andersons leave towns that spend 55 percent of their budgets on the school system for subdivisions where the money goes to adult self-indulgence. As Blechman says, the resulting so-called life can't ''hide the fact that these communities are based on a selfish and fraudulent premise'' and that Americans pay ''the high societal price of this exclusionary lifestyle.'' 
 This view is not shared by Villages residents or their neighbors, who tell Blechman they like the community. ''Don't you miss the real world?'' he asks a former teacher named Mr. Midnight, whose main problem is having enough Viagra around to keep up with his social life. ''I don't want the real world anymore,'' he says. He just wants sex. ''Whatever happens now, you guys have to worry about it -- it doesn't affect me.'' 
 Faced with elder contentment, Blechman writes, ''try as I might to keep an open mind, I grew increasingly disenchanted with those ... who embraced the Villages' age-restricted lifestyle. It struck me as segregation, pure and simple, with children taking the place of previous 'undesirables.''' Blechman smacks the Villagers coming and going. They have not only deserted authentic towns for bogus Disneylands, but also refused to let younger people join them. Trust me, you don't want to be around him when the cover band plays ''Brown Sugar.'' 
 No one will tell him that it's not the kids who make life insufferable but their parents, who insist that kids be included in everything. But Mr. Midnight imparts two messages. ''Look,'' he tells Blechman, ''I know what it is like to be young. You don't know what it is like to be old.'' The second message follows a tornado in central Florida. ''We have plenty of food and water,'' Mr. Midnight writes. ''Please send Viagra.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED KASHI/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); GOLF (89%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); CHILDREN (71%); WRITERS (71%); HOMEOWNERS (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (61%); HEART DISEASE (60%); MAMMALS (57%); STROKES (50%)

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (51%)

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Leisureville (Book)>; Leisureville (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



16 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; DINING RED BANK; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Bistro Style, With Ambition To Spare

BYLINE: By KARLA COOK

 BODY:
AS the price of food continues to rise, it's a comfort to find a restaurant that serves good, well-priced meals in pleasant surroundings. It's even better when the chef is ambitious, with an instinct for delicious combinations.
 The place is Red, a narrowish storefront named after the town where it is situated, Red Bank, and the executive chef is Darryl Feeney, a native of Rumson and a 1997 graduate of the Culinary Institute of America. 
 We visited on two evenings. The first was a quiet Sunday. The huge windows (and many tables) were open; insistent bass (but little else) thudded on the speakers. The second visit was on a fairly rambunctious Saturday, when every table was full and the place was a bit of a scene. 
 On the plate, Mr. Feeney aims for a bistro style. Though the economy limits his use of foie gras and requires careful ordering, he says he finds ample flavor in many of the less expensive cuts of meat. 
 True enough; all that is lacking at Red is a bit of fine-tuning.
 The menu at this five-year-old spot is smallish and easy to follow. There are appetizers, salads, sandwiches and entrees, along with a blessedly short specials list recited by the waiter. 
 Among the appetizers, the marinated tempura artichoke hearts were a table favorite. The crunch of the batter played nicely against the hot and tender vegetables; four were artfully placed around a small mound of sweetly complex roasted-pepper risotto (though it was more rice than risotto). We also liked a dish of juicy sauteed shrimp with soba noodles, not enough sugar snap peas, and carrots, all of which carried a subtle kick from the sesame oil and sriracha sauce in the sesame vinaigrette. 
 The duck spring roll was a witty take on a classic, with its stuffing of shiitake mushrooms and arugula balancing the sweet succulence of the duck. But the polenta crab cakes were simply less than what they would have been had the pesky polenta not been added in the first place. 
 The pear salad, which I had imagined as a delicate composition of mostly poached pear and orbs of blue cheese strewn over a fistful of arugula, was, instead, a mountain of arugula -- a clean, green gauntlet for anyone who has ever complained about the paucity of vegetables. Too bad it was unbalanced; a couple more pears and a bit more cheese, and this could have been a salad for four.
 The menu description of the crispy chicken sandwich with fresh mozzarella, tomatoes and sherry dressing sounded enough like a favorite Italian dish -- Milanese, a quick-fried cutlet with an arugula salad on top -- that we asked no questions and took a chance. It didn't pay off.
 Main dishes were much better. A standout was pappardelle in a superlative sauce of tender beef braised in red wine, tomato and onion. A close second was seared and sweet sea scallops (slightly marred by a bit of grit), over beautifully braised and bitter endive and more of those shiitakes. The dish melded with a creamy orange-coriander sauce. The flank steak, first marinated in red wine vinegar, soy, olive oil, thyme and garlic, then grilled, was another winner, especially with its grilled onions on top and the bit of arugula beneath sweet roasted tomatoes. 
 A broiled veal chop special was less successful; the meat had an acrid crust from charring, the bacon bits scattered through the lentils overpowered the subtle veal, and the accompanying eggplant cubes seemed random. Another dish, farfalle with baby shrimp and roasted peppers, was unremarkable.
 There is one dessert of note: profiteroles (little cream puffs) filled with pistachio ice cream. On one night, the dish was beautifully balanced and luscious, with fresh pastry; on a second try, there was about triple the right amount of ice cream for the amount of pastry, and that pastry seemed less than fresh. Still, it's an unusual dessert for an unusual restaurant that's worth visiting -- and revisiting. 
 Red
 3 Broad Street
 Red Bank
 (732) 741-3232
 www.rednj.com
 GOOD 
 THE SPACE Narrow, 90-seat storefront with high ceilings and large windows; seating for 12 outside, and more on sofas in the upstairs lounge. 
 THE CROWD Noisy and dressed to be noticed; friendly servers; few children. 
 THE BAR Ninety-five mostly American and New World wines, $28 to $225 by the bottle, including three selections for $20. Sixteen by the glass, $8 to $11.
 THE BILL Dinner entrees and nightly specials, $18 to $31, with many entrees under $20. All major credit cards accepted.
 WHAT WE LIKE Tempura artichoke hearts, sauteed shrimp with soba noodles, duck spring roll; pappardelle, flank steak, scallops with endive; profiteroles with pistachio ice cream.
 IF YOU GO Dinner: Monday to Thursday, 5 to 10:30 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 5 to 11 p.m.; Sunday, 5 to 10 p.m. Reservations recommended on weekends and suggested in summer. Limited street parking; a municipal lot is less than two blocks away. 
 Reviewed June 1, 2008

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SEAFOOD: The menu at Red includes pan-roasted grouper, below, with asparagus and Gaeta olives. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); PASTA & NOODLES (78%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



17 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2557 words

 BODY:
FILM
 MIDDLETOWN Middletown Township Public Library South Asian Film Festival: ''Little Terrorist,'' directed by Ashvin Kumar. ''Whose Children Are These,'' a documentary by Theresa Thanjan. ''Naamkoro/Naming Ceremony,'' directed by Konkona Sen Sharma. Indian food will be served courtesy of Neelam Exotic Indian Cuisine. Monday, 6 to 8:45 p.m. Free. ''Viva Liberty,'' a narrative short by Dishad Husain. ''Pria,'' a narrative short by Theodore Bezaire. ''Red Roses,'' a documentary short by Madhuri Mohindar and Vaishali Sinha. June 9, 6 to 8:45 p.m. Free. Middletown Township Public Library, 55 New Monmouth Road. (732) 671-3700. 
 FOR CHILDREN
 ATLANTIC HIGHLANDS First Avenue Playhouse ''Puss in Boots,'' musical presented by the Paper Moon Puppet Theater. $9. Through June 22. First Avenue Playhouse, 123 First Avenue. (732) 291-7552; www.firstavenueplayhouse.com. 
 CAPE MAY Emlen Physick Estate Cape May Family Treasure Hunt, self-guided tours. Continuing. $5. Emlen Physick Estate, 1048 Washington Street. (800) 275-4278; www.capemaymac.org.
 ENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center ''Seussical the Musical,'' a musical adventure featuring favorite Dr. Seuss characters by Stephen Flaherty and Lynn Ahrens. June 7 at 1 and 4 p.m. $15 to $25. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; www.bergenpac.org. 
 WEST WINDSOR Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College ''The Little Red Hen,'' a musical. June 7 at 2 and 4 p.m. $8 and $10. Kelsey Theater, Mercer County Community College, West Windsor Campus, 1200 Old Trenton Road. (609) 570-3333; www.kelseyatmccc.org. 
 MUSIC AND DANCE
 CAPE MAY Congress Hall ''Heartstrings,'' presented by the Bay-Atlantic Symphony with Rachel Lee, violin soloist. Thursday at 8 p.m. $10 to $25. Congress Hall, 251 Beach Avenue. (609) 884-8421; www.congresshall.com. 
 EAST RUTHERFORD Izod Center ''Hot 97 Summer Jam,'' a concert featuring hip-hop and R & B artists. June 1 at 6:30 p.m. $43 to $168. Izod Center, 50 Route 120. (201) 507-8900; www.meadow-
 lands.com. 
 ENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center Blondie, pop. Friday at 8 p.m. $29 to $99. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; www.bergenpac.org. 
 FAIR LAWN Fair Lawn Community Center The Refugees and Danny Bakan, folk. June 7 at 8 p.m. $25. Fair Lawn Community Center, 10-10 20th Street. (201) 384-1325. 
 MADISON Drew University Sanofi-Aventis Jazzfest 2008, presented by the New Jersey Jazz Society. Friday through June 9. Free to $45. Drew University, 36 Madison Avenue. (800) 303-6557; www.drew.edu. 
 MORRIS TOWNSHIP Bickford Theater Wyeth Jazz Showcase: Dan Levinson, clarinetist. June 9 at 8 p.m. $13 and $15. Bickford Theater, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3706; www.morrismu-
 seum.org. 
 NEWARKNew Jersey Performing Arts Center ''Movin' Out,'' an all-dance musical by Twyla Tharp and Billy Joel. June 10 through 15. $23 to $69. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; www.
 njpac.org. 
 NEWARK New Jersey Performing Arts Center Tom Chapin and Friends, family-friendly concert. June 1 at 2 p.m. $20 and $22.New York Philharmonic, led by Lorin Maazel, will perform Mr. Maazel's arrangement of Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle. Friday at 8 p.m. $29 to $115. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; www.
 njpac.org. 
 OCEAN GROVE Ocean Grove Camp Meeting New Jersey State Youth Orchestra. June 1 at 3:30 p.m. Donations suggested. Ocean Grove Camp Meeting, Boardwalk Pavilion. (732) 775-0035; www.oceangrove.org. 
 PRINCETON Princeton Public Library ''Music of La Belle Epoque: From Salon to Stage.'' June 11 at 7:30 p.m. Free. Princeton Public Library, 65 Witherspoon Street. (609) 924-9529; www.princetonlibrary.org. 
 RIDGEWOOD West Side Presbyterian Church The Ars Musica Chorale will perform Bach's Mass in B Minor in concert. June 7 at 8 p.m. $20. West Side Presbyterian Church, 6 South Monroe Street. (201) 652-1966. 
 WAYNE Wayne Public Library ''Chasing Rainbows: Songs of Judy Garland,'' performance by Karen Luschar. June 11 at 12:30 p.m. Free. Wayne Public Library, 461 Valley Road. (973) 694-4272. 
 OUTDOORS
 BASKING RIDGE Great Swamp National Wildlife Refuge Spring Botanical Remedies Walking Tour, a search for medicinal plants used during Colonial times, hosted by the Museum of Early Trades and Crafts. June 1 at 2 p.m. $4 to $8; advance registration required. Great Swamp National Wildlife Refuge, 241 Pleasant Plains Road. (973) 425-1222. 
 RUTHERFORD Nereid Boat Club National Learn to Row Day. June 7, 9 a.m. to noon. Free. Nereid Boat Club, 350 Riverside Avenue. (201) 438-3995; www.nereidbc.org. 
 SPOKEN WORD
 ENGLEWOOD Englewood Public Library Evelyn Romanowsky Ripp, a Holocaust survivor, will discuss her new book, ''The Abandoned: A Life Apart From Life.'' Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Free. ''Verismo Operalog,'' a PowerPoint presentation on the history of opera, by Anthony Morss and Lucine Amara of the New Jersey Association of Verismo Opera. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Englewood Public Library, 31 Engle Street. (201) 568-2215; www.englewoodlibrary.org. 
 PRINCETON Princeton Public Library Discussion of ''Pushing up Daisies,'' a mystery by Rosemary Harris. Monday at 7 p.m. Free. Princeton Public Library, 65 Witherspoon Street. (609) 924-9529; www.princetonlibrary.org. 
 WEST CALDWELL West Caldwell Municipal Building ''A Celebration of New Jersey's Literary Journals,'' poetry festival. Thirteen journals will be on display, with each represented by two poets who have been published in the journal. June 1, 1 to 5 p.m. West Caldwell Public Library, 30 Clinton Road. (973) 226-5441.
 THEATER
 CAPE MAY Cape May Stage ''Fully Committed,'' a comedy by Becky Mode. Through June 28. $12.50 to $35. Cape May Stage, Bank and Lafayette Streets. (609) 884-1341; www.capemaystage.com. 
 HACKETTSTOWN Centenary Stage Company ''Cabaret,'' musical. Through June 1. $8 and $10. Centenary Stage Company, 400 Jefferson Street. (908) 979-0900; www.centenarystageco.org. 
 LONG BRANCH Dwek Studio Theater ''Women Who Steal,'' comedy by Carter W. Lewis. Through June 15. $30 to $50. Dwek Studio Theater, 179 Broadway. (732) 229-3166. 
 MILLBURNPaper Mill Playhouse ''Little Shop of Horrors,'' musical by Howard Ashman and Alan Menken. Wednesday through July 6. $25 to $95. Paper Mill Playhouse, 3 Brookside Drive. (973) 376-4343; www.papermill.org. 
 PERRYVILLE Hunterdon Hills Playhouse ''Last of the Red Hot Lovers,'' comedy by Neil Simon. Through June 24. $57.50 to $69.50, including entrees and dessert buffet. Hunterdon Hills Playhouse, 88 Route 173 West. (800) 447-7313; www
 .hhplayhouse.com.
 PRINCETONMcCarter Theater Center ''A Seagull in the Hamptons,'' contemporary adaptation by Emily Mann of ''The Seagull'' by Chekhov. Through June 8. $43 and $49. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place. (609) 258-2787; www.mccarter.org. 
 RANDOLPH Brundage Park Playhouse ''Romeo and Juliet,'' presented by the Shakespeare Initiative. Friday through June 14. $10. Brundage Park Playhouse, Carrell Road. (973) 989-7092. 
 WEST LONG BRANCH Lauren K. Woods Theater at Monmouth University ''Wait Until Dark,'' by Frederick Knott. Friday through June 22. $15 to $25. Lauren K. Woods Theater at Monmouth University, Cedar and Norwood Avenues. (732) 263-6889. 
 WEST WINDSOR Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College ''The Full Monty,'' musical about unemployed steel workers who decide to become exotic dancers. Through June 8. $10 to $16. Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College, 1200 Old Trenton Road. (609) 570-3333; www.kelsey
 atmccc.org. 
 MUSEUMS AND GALLERIES
 ALLENTOWN Historic Walnford ''Key Ingredients: America By Food,'' a traveling Smithsonian exhibition that demonstrates the historical, regional and social traditions in everyday meals. Through July 13. Historic Walnford, 78 Walnford Road. (609) 259-6275. 
 CAPE MAY Soma NewArt Gallery ''Intimate Feasts,'' paintings by Sandra Bloodworth. Through June 15. Mondays through Sundays 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Soma NewArt Gallery, 31 Perry Street. (609) 898-7488; www.somagallery.net. 
 CLIFTON Clifton Arts Center ''From Distant Shores,'' an exhibition of works on ocean-related themes by student artists from Clifton High School. Through June 7. $1. Clifton Arts Center, 900 Clifton Avenue. (973) 472-5499. 
 CLINTON Red Mill Museum Village ''Just Sew! Clinton Quilts: 1860 to Today,'' an exhibition featuring antique quilts. Through Oct. 9. Adults, $8; seniors, $6; children 6 to 12, $5; members and children under 6, free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Red Mill Museum Village, 56 Main Street. (908) 735-4101. CLINTON Hunterdon Museum of Art ''Emil Lukas: Moderate Climate and the Bitter Bison,'' paintings and installations using nontraditional materials. Through June 15. $5. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hunterdon Museum of Art, 7 Lower Center Street. (908) 735-8415; www.hunterdonartmuseum.org. 
 CRANFORD Tomasulo Gallery, Union County College ''Howard Nathenson, Recent Color Still Lifes,'' photographs. Through June 26. Mondays through Thursdays, 1 to 4 p.m.; Tuesdays through Thursdays, 6 to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Tomasulo Gallery, Union County College, 1033 Springfield Avenue. (908) 709-7155. 
 ENGLEWOOD Mark Gallery ''Journey of the Spirit,'' paintings by Peter Lajtai Langer. Through June 26. Free. Mondays through Saturdays 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Thursdays 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Mark Gallery, 11 Grand Avenue. (201) 568-6275; www.mark-gallery.com. 
 GLEN GARDNER Gallery 31 North ''The Sea I See,'' installations and sculpture by Ellen Hanauer. Through June 29. Thursdays through Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Gallery 31 North, Route 31 and Hunt Place. (908) 537-7044. 
 HAMILTON Grounds for Sculpture Spring Exhibition, featuring Toshiko Takaezu and Peter Voulkos, contemporary ceramic artists. Through Sept. 28. Adults, $10; students and seniors, $8; children 6 to 12, $6; members and children under 6, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Grounds for Sculpture, 18 Fairgrounds Road. (609) 586-0616; www.groundsforsculpture.org. 
 HOPEWELL Gallery 14 ''Ground Zero + 7,'' photographs by Marty Schwartz and Joanna Tully. Through June 22. Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Gallery 14, 14 Mercer Street. (609) 333-8511. 
 LAMBERTVILLE Coryell Gallery at the Porkyard ''View of Land and Sky,'' featuring pastels and watercolors by Pamela Malabre Miller and Barbara Gould Watts. Through June 29. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Coryell Gallery at the Porkyard, 8 Coryell Street. (609) 397-0804. 
 LINCROFT Monmouth Museum ''Waldman Family Exhibition,'' featuring works by three Waldman family artists. Through June 22. ''Gustav Rosenlof -- Mobiles,'' a part of the New Jersey Emerging Artists Series. Through June 29. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. $7 and $8; free for museum members, students and staff members of Brookdale Community College, and children under 2. Monmouth Museum, Brookdale Community College, Newman Springs Road. (732) 747-2266; www.monmouth
 museum.org.
 MILLVILLE Wheaton Arts and Cultural Center ''Living Traditions Portrayed: Indian Folk Art and Crafts,'' featuring a collection of ritual, decorative and utilitarian objects from Indian and Indian-American artists and craftspeople. Through Dec. 31. ''Tracing the Cultural Roots,'' featuring glass works by Sisir Sahana and paintings by Narendra Amin. Through Dec. 31. ''Treasures From the Collection: Museum of American Glass,'' an exhibition of 125 glass pieces that have been collected over 40 years. Through Jan. 5. $7 to $10; children 5 and under, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Wheaton Arts and Cultural Center, 1501 Glasstown Road (Route 55). (800) 998-4552; www.wheaton
 arts.org. 
 MORRIS TOWNSHIPMorris Museum ''New Jersey Then and Now,'' featuring works from the collections of ACA Galleries and from the Morris Museum, dating to 1780. Through Sept. 14. $6 to $8; free on Thursdays from 5 to 8 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3700; www.morrismuseum.org. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum ''New Narratives: Contemporary Art from India,'' group exhibition of paintings, sculptures, new media art, installations and video. Through July 31. ''Painting for the Grave: The Early Work of Boris Sveshnikov,'' an exhibition featuring oil paintings and drawings produced from 1940 to 1961. Through Oct. 12. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum, 71 Hamilton Street. (732) 932-7237; www.zimmerlimuseum.rutgers.edu. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation ''Magyar Grafika: Hungarian Posters, Advertising and Ephemera,'' featuring 75 posters from the 1900s. Through Sept. 14. $5. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation, 300 Somerset Street. (732) 846-5777. 
 NEW BRUNSWICKRutgers University, Douglass Library ''Tiger by the Tail! Women Artists of India Transforming Culture -- Part 1,'' contemporary Indian art. Through July 31. Free. Rutgers University, Douglass Library, 8 Chapel Drive. (732) 932-9407; www.libraries.rutgers.edu/rul/exhibits/dana--womens.shtml. 
 NEWARK Newark Museum ''Glass Beads of Ghana,'' glass beads made with various materials and techniques. Through June 15. ''Women's Tales: Four Leading Israeli Jewelers,'' contemporary jewelry. Through June 25. ''Small but Sublime: Intimate Views by Durand, Bierstadt and Inness.'' Through Feb. 22. $3 to $9; members, free. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. (973) 596-6550; www.newarkmuseum.org. 
 NEWARK Rupert Ravens Contemporary ''Displaced/Interventions'' and ''Stop Stealing My Face,'' paintings, prints and videos by Grace Graupe Pillard. Through June 22. Thursdays through Sundays 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Rupert Ravens Contemporary, 85 Market Street. (973) 353-0110. 
 RIDGEWOOD Kerygma Gallery Summer Exhibition, group show of paintings and sculpture by gallery artists. Through Aug. 9. Free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Kerygma Gallery, 38 Oak Street. (201) 444-5510. 
 SPRINGFIELD Donald B. Palmer Museum (Springfield Free Public Library) ''Tales From the Wood,'' a collection of hand-carved and assembled animal heads by George Thaddeus Saj. June 9 through July 17. Hours: Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.; Tuesdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Donald B. Palmer Museum (Springfield Free Public Library), 66 Mountain Avenue. (973) 376-4930. 
 TRENTON Old Barracks Museum A celebration of the construction of the barracks 250 years ago, led by Bill Schliecher. June 1. $6 to $8. Old Barracks Museum, 101 Barrack Street. (609) 396-1776. 
 UNION Union Public Library ''Atmospheres and Compositions of Nature,'' an exhibition of paintings by Seppo Siimes. Through Aug. 18. Union Public Library, 1980 Morris Avenue. (908) 851-5450. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEWARK: Smokey Robinson, the R&B and soul singer, will perform at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $23 to $68. 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722
www.njpac.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS/ANDREA DE SILVA) (pg. NJ12)
ELMER: A festival at the Appel Farm Arts and Music Center on June 7 will feature musical performances and children's activities. 11:30 a.m. to 8 p.m. Tickets are $35 to $45
free for children 12 and under. 457 Shirley Road. (800) 394-1211
www.appelfarm.org. (pg. NJ12)
PRINCETON: Members of a Colonial color guard outside Morven mansion for ''The Nation's Capital,'' an exhibition celebrating the 225th anniversary of Princeton's serving as America's capital for five months in 1783. The exhibition will be at the Morven Museum and Garden through Jan. 11. $4 and $5. Wednesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. 55 Stockton Street. (609) 924-8144
www.historicmorven.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS/ MEL EVANS) (pg. NJ13)
HACKETTSTOWN: ''George M!'' a musical biography of George M. Cohan, is showing at the Centenary Stage Company on June 1 at 7 p.m. Tickets are $8 and $10. 400 Jefferson Street. (908) 979-0900
 www.centenarystageco.org. (pg. NJ13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); CALENDARS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (87%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (86%); MUSIC (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); DANCE (73%); THEATER COMPANIES (68%); RAP MUSIC (68%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (68%); HIP HOP CULTURE (66%); THEATER (59%)

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (60%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (60%); SANF (BIT) (60%); SAN (PAR) (60%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (50%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); BIHAR, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



18 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Dangerous Catch

BYLINE: By SID EVANS. 
Sid Evans is the editor in chief of Garden & Gun magazine.

 BODY:
RED SUMMER 
 The Danger, Madness, and Exaltation of Salmon Fishing in a Remote Alaskan Village. 
 By Bill Carter. 
 Illustrated. 234 pp. Scribner. $25. 
 If you are one of the millions of Americans who have been seduced by ''Deadliest Catch,'' the Discovery Channel's testosterone-fueled show about king crab fishermen in the Bering Sea, then you know that commercial fishing is dangerous work -- and irresistible to watch. Every year, boats sink, fishermen drown and captains clash with the elements, all of which result in huge ratings. In Bill Carter's ''Red Summer,'' his account of four summers working as a set-net fisherman in a rough town in southeastern Alaska, the fishing and the weather are less extreme, but the danger level is tantalizingly high. Death, we are reminded, is always one mistake away -- a shoelace caught in a net, a skiff overloaded with salmon. Fall into the 42-degree water and you'll be dead in minutes. But if you live in a town as tough as Egegik, it's the lifestyle that's going to kill you, not the fishing. 
 ''Red Summer'' is about life at the extreme edge of the food chain, and nowhere is the food chain more violent, more awesome or more intense than in Egegik. 
 Every year tens of millions of sockeye salmon surge into the Egegik river to spawn, and 1,000 to 2,000 commercial fishermen converge to greet them -- many with gill nets. From late June to early August, the fishermen pull about nine million salmon out of the river system, a bloody haul that drives the town's economy and sustains its tiny year-round population. Thousands more go to the grizzly bears that wander the shores (and sometimes wander into people's kitchens), and to the eagles, wolves, marmots, foxes and wolverines that make up the neighborhood. But the characters in town are just as wild as the critters, and their fight to survive is just as brutal. 
 Carter's rambling, uneven narrative revolves around Sharon Hart, the unlikely boat captain who employs him for four summers, and who has defied serious odds to build a life here. Hart is as tough as fishing wire, knows how to jump-start an engine with a screwdriver and barks commands like an N.F.L. coach. (One day, when the rookie Carter is struggling to pick a salmon from the net, she slams it against the boat and says, ''They aren't antiques.'') She also suffers from severe tendinitis that keeps her moaning in pain at night, and like many of those who live in Egegik, she has seen her share of hard times -- a father who used to gamble and drink, a wayward daughter, a couple of husbands. But Sharon keeps returning to Egegik year after year, drawn by the sense of freedom and independence that seems to unite commercial fishermen everywhere. ''Some people take fancy vacations to condos on the beach,'' she tells Carter in a rare moment of reflection. ''I come here. It's my summerhouse. I come here to see friends, to live a different life. And sure, to make some money, but it's more about ownership. Ownership of my own life.''
 Not everyone in Egegik is as plucky, or as lucky, as Sharon Hart. The town wears people down, especially those who stay through the winters. With the spare style of a war reporter (his previous book, ''Fools Rush In,'' recounted his harrowing experiences in Sarajevo during the height of the Bosnian war), Carter introduces a man in his early 40s named Boobuck who waded into the river, drunk, to check his subsistence net; he took one step too many and was sucked downstream to his death. There's Pancho, a young friend of Sharon's, who was electrocuted when he lifted a pipe and it touched an overhanging wire. And there's a neo-Nazi type named Ken Hunter, who shot two men, one of them his former fishing partner, and presumably sank their bodies in the river. 
 But the more sinister, and widespread, killer in Egegik is booze. This is the ugly side of commercial fishing that you don't see on the adrenaline-soaked Discovery Channel. Yes, there are heroic types like Hart, but as Carter puts it, ''Egegik is a place where racial slurs are accepted, pedophilia is condemned but rampant, and alcoholism is the 800-pound elephant in the room'' (although that seems a pretty small elephant). Everyone seems to drink constantly in Egegik, including Carter, who also depends on ibuprofen and codeine to help him endure the pain in his forearms. The town's liquor store, open just two hours a day, does a brisk business. Although Carter spends no winters in Egegik (for the sake of the book, I wish he had), he learns that they are long, unbearable and, for some, deadly. One young schoolteacher tells him that she spent an entire winter terrified that she would be raped, so she never left her home. ''I wouldn't go back there for a million dollars,'' she says.
 Still, there is life in Egegik, an enormous energy at the peak of the summer salmon run, and all those misfits and scoundrels are suddenly drunk on just one thing: fishing. Although he has a few ethical problems with the environmental effects of killing so many fish for profit (and indulges in some annoying preachiness), Carter admits to feeling he's part of the Klondike gold rush on the biggest fishing days, when salmon are ''flying between our legs and shooting out of the water toward our faces.'' These are also the days when the risk factor is at its highest, and the book hums along as the fishermen struggle to avert one disaster after another. Carter handles these scenes well, conveying the panic, fear and desperation that go with hauling in 28,000 pounds of salmon.
 But all that fear and panic isn't really the point of ''Red Summer.'' In spite of the continual drumbeat of danger, including an over-hyped encounter with a grizzly bear, Carter's greatest fear is messing up. He doesn't want to let down Sharon or her steady partner, Carl, especially when the going gets tough. He wants to be accepted in the fraternity of fishermen. This might be more interesting if you knew anything about Carter, whose reasons for being in Egegik are foggy at best. He briefly explains that he lost a girlfriend to a tragic accident (which drove the narrative of ''Fools Rush In''), but beyond that he says only that he has been in a ''transitional phase,'' picking tomatoes in California. What makes a talented journalist choose to spend his summers suffering through 18-hour days of dangerous, backbreaking work that doesn't pay well? Why was he picking tomatoes? We never really find out. 
 In the end it doesn't matter. The main characters in ''Red Summer'' are the fishing town of Egegik and the wayward souls who live there. And even though Carter implies that he will never return, Sharon, Carl and the rest will be back again this year, waiting for the peak of the run. Like that of the fish, their struggle continues, and it seemingly always will. ''We are just like the salmon,'' Sharon says, ''dying to let the new generations live.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM ''RED SUMMER'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (89%); SHELLFISH FISHING (89%); FINFISH FISHING (78%); RIVERS (77%)

COMPANY: DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

TICKER: DISCA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (93%); BERING SEA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Red Summer (Book)>; Red Summer (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



19 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 3943 words

HEADLINE: 31 Places to Go This Summer

 BODY:
THERE used to be a time -- oh, let's call it 2007 -- when summer was considered a time of almost limitless possibilities, a time of languorous vacations, of trips filled with the promise of discovery. 
 But the summer of 2008 is starting out like a cruel joke, with air travel increasingly a nightmare and with wildly escalating gas prices threatening to make the road trip all but obsolete. It's almost enough to make you sit at home and catch up on episodes of ''Gossip Girl.''
 The summer vacation is still an inalienable right, however. And there is no reason to forgo it this year. It will just take a bit of creativity -- and perhaps the willingness to stay a little closer to home this time around -- to pull it off in 2008.
 Thus, here are 31 options -- from river rafting in eastern Oregon to biking in the White Mountains of New Hampshire -- for a great summer vacation. Not one involves the terrifying conversion of dollars into euros, many can be enjoyed without ever getting on a plane, and the road trips are ones that actually justify filling up your tank, even if the price of gas hits $5 a gallon this summer. 
 1. TEXAS HILL COUNTRY
 Who needs Europe? The Texas Hill Country, west of Austin and north of San Antonio, might be the next best thing to crossing the Atlantic. The region is lush, colorful and, unlike much of the pancake-flat state, dotted with beautiful green hills that are evocative of Tuscany or the south of France. Moreover, the region is speckled with 22 wineries (www.texaswinetrail.com) that buzz with food and music festivals year round. And towns like Fredericksburg offer a taste of the Old World, with German-style biergartens and schnitzelhauser.
 2. NEW HAMPSHIRE
 With 800,000 acres of rugged terrain and biking trails, the White Mountains of New Hampshire are sometimes called the Moab of the East. And while you won't get red-rock formations or Road Runner vistas, the White Mountains do offer their own purple majesty. The Cherry Mountain Loop near Twin Mountain, not far from Bretton Woods, features remote waterfalls and thick forests. The trails around North Conway, a small, outdoorsy town near the Maine border where volunteer riders maintain more than 100 miles of downhill paths, are popular. For trail information, see the New Hampshire Trails Bureau (www.nhtrails.org) and New England Mountain Bicycling Association (www.nemba.org).
 3. LAS VEGAS
 The much-hyped efforts of Las Vegas to turn itself into a family destination a few years ago pretty much fizzled -- there's still plenty of sin in Sin City -- but anyone looking for a pool vacation for the kids this summer might want to consider this desert spot. The pool scenes at any number of hotels (including recent expansions at Mandalay Bay and the Excalibur) are fairly over-the-top, but few can rival the 15-acre ''tropical oasis'' at the Flamingo Las Vegas (888-902-9929; www.flamingolv.com), with four pools, a water slide, several waterfalls and a subterranean grotto that can be explored either on foot or by water. And for the adults, there's even a swim-up blackjack table. Weekend rates for a room with two queen-size beds (suitable for a family of four) start about $140 this June and July. 
 4. PHILADELPHIA
 There are enough history excursions in the City of Brotherly Love to fill an entire summer, including big landmarks like the National Constitution Center (215-409-6600; www.constitutioncenter.org), with its interactive displays in which kids can be sworn in as president or cast their ballots in authentic voting booths. But there's also plenty to do off the history track -- much of it affordable for a family weekend. For starters: the new $20 million Big Cat Falls exhibit at the Philadelphia Zoo (3400 West Girard Avenue; 215-243-1100; www.philadelphiazoo.org), where lions, tigers, baby pumas and snow leopards are on view. A quick trolley ride from Center City can take you to one of the nation's oldest -- and most lovely -- botanical gardens, Bartram's Garden (54th Street and Lindbergh Boulevard; 215-729-5281; www.bartramsgarden.org). For local flavor, it's worth a lunch visit to John's Roast Pork (14 East Snyder Avenue; 215-463-1951; www.johnsroastpork.com), where the made-to-order cheese steaks are legendary (the James Beard Foundation declared John's one of ''America's Classics''). The Loews Philadelphia Hotel is well situated at 1200 Market Street (215-627-1200; www.loewshotels.com), with occasional family packages. Rooms with two double beds start at $179.
 5. A WESTERN ROAD TRIP
 You could join the thousands of visitors vying for a glance of the fabled Grand Canyon before retiring to cafeteria lines and dorm-size rooms (surrounded by those same throngs). Or you could opt instead to navigate a series of mind-bendingly beautiful mesas and wild canyons in the Capitol Reef National Park, in almost near solitude. En route from Las Vegas, is Bryce Canyon -- shades of the Grand Canyon with a fraction of the tourists. A bit farther, in Torrey, Utah (population about 200), the Cafe Diablo on Main Street (435-425-3070; www.cafediablo.net), serves rattlesnake cakes with ancho-rosemary aioli, glazed salmon, and margaritas at outdoor tables with views of the surrounding mountains. The nearby Hell's Backbone Grill in Boulder, Utah (population 1850), on the edge of Escalante's enormous slick-rock chasm, also serves food that's strikingly good (Utah North Highway 12; 435-335-7464). Along the way, the stretch of road on Highways 89 and 12 is one of the country's most stunning. (Information on Capitol Reef National Park, including camping permits: www.nps.gov; 435-425-3791.) 
 6. MYRTLE BEACH, S.C.
 The 55-acre Hard Rock Park (www.hardrockpark.com), billed as the ''world's first rock 'n' roll theme park,'' just opened in Myrtle Beach, complete with a Led Zeppelin-themed steel roller coaster and nightly fireworks set to Queen's ''Bohemian Rhapsody.'' It may be an unlikely addition to this popular resort, best known for its golf courses, but it's not the only reason to visit this summer. Many of the area's hotels are offering deep discounts on their weekend rates, ranging from three-bedroom suites for $225 a night to two-bedroom golf villas starting at around $200.
 7. MONTAUK, N.Y.
 It's cheaper, less crowded and arguably even prettier than the Hamptons. And now the party scene is getting a boost, too. Montauk, the salty surfing and artists' village at the eastern tip of Long Island, welcomed a new hotel this season, the Surf Lodge, created by the same celebrity-wrangling folks who brought you the Cain nightclub in New York's Chelsea neighborhood. The 32-room hotel is set on tranquil Fort Pond, and imports such Hamptons-like affectations as a mixologist, yoga gurus and a flip-flop-friendly restaurant helmed by the former ''Top Chef'' heartthrob Sam Talbot. (Surf Lodge, 183 Edgemere Street; 631-238-5190; www.thesurflodge.com.) 
 8. NIAGARA-ON-THE-LAKE
 You won't find much evidence of George Bernard Shaw at the Shaw Festival (www.shawfest.com) this year -- just ''Mrs. Warren's Profession'' and the seldom-performed ''Getting Married.'' But there are still excellent theatrical offerings this summer, including two Stephen Sondheim musicals, ''A Little Night Music'' and ''Follies.'' But even if you never go inside a theater, Niagara-on-the-Lake in Ontario has plenty to offer, including a lovely setting on Lake Ontario, a clutch of charming B & Bs and some excellent wineries -- particularly Peller Estates (www.peller.com), with a restaurant featuring creative seasonal menus from its executive chef, Jason Parsons. The historic Prince of Wales Hotel, in the center of town (6 Picton Street; 905-468-3246), is an excellent place to park yourself for the weekend. Summer rates start at about 290 Canadian dollars, about the same in United States dollars.
 9. SCOTTSDALE, ARIZ.
 Downtown Scottsdale is turning into a desert version of Miami's South Beach. No ocean of course, but plenty of late-night partying and a buzzing hotel scene. The latest arrival is the 224-room W Scottsdale (www.whotels.com/scottsdale), scheduled to open in August, featuring a Bliss spa, a 1,100-square-foot fitness center, a sprawling pool area (with 13 private cabanas) and a sushi restaurant. Rates start at $449. 
 10. CHESAPEAKE BAY
 The calm waters of Chesapeake Bay are an idyllic setting for a summer afternoon sail. But don't know your mast from your helm? Then check out the ''Learn to Sail Package'' being offered by the Tides Inn (www.tidesinn.com), a resort in Irvington, Va., set on an estuary that flows into the Rappahannock River and the Chesapeake. Starting at $2,495 for two people, the package includes four nights in a suite in a part of the hotel with a private boat slip and two and a half days of expert instruction that will enable you to earn a basic keelboat certificate. More of a landlubber? Stay behind and hang out at the spa, where the treatments include a lava shell massage and a Sedona clay body wrap. 
 11. PORTLAND, ORE. 
 As far as foodie havens go, Portland has been better known for its vegan cafes and eco-hippie cooperatives than for restaurants with gastronomic ambitions. But an emerging locavore movement has changed that. Drawn by the city's low rents and artsy vibe, young chefs are breaking the culinary mold and tapping into the Northwestern bounty of local fisheries, small meat purveyors and artisanal farms. Sample the heat at places like Clyde Common (Southwest 10th and Stark; 503-228-3333; www.clydecommon.com), which serves novel dishes like crispy pork belly with blood orange marmalade.
 12. MONUMENT VALLEY
 You've seen it in countless spaghetti westerns and Marlboro ads. But the iconic red buttes and mesas of Monument Valley, in the heart of Navajo country, offers more than just postcard-ready views of the quintessential American West. The wind-scraped valley, which spreads along the Utah and Arizona border like a rock sculpture garden, also draws horseback riders, mountain bikers, river rafters and other outdoor enthusiasts. Sacred Monument Tours (www.monumentvalley.net) has horseback rides starting at about $57. Tours are also available at Goulding's Lodge (www.gouldings.com), currently the only lodging in the valley, at least until the View Hotel (www.monumentvalleyview.com) opens sometime in the fall. Other services can be found through the Navajo Parks and Recreation Department (www.navajonationparks.org). 
 13. HIGHWAY 101, OREGON
 Oregon's Highway 101 may be a National Scenic Byway (www.byways.org), but that doesn't mean you have to drive it. This coastal highway is also great for biking. Yes, there are some challenging uphill stretches, but the reward is fragrant old-growth forests, misty ocean cliffs and isolated coves that you'd miss whizzing by in a car. Plus, it's easy to tack on a side trip to artsy little towns like Port Orford (www.portorford.org), the nearby historic Cape Blanco Lighthouse (www.capeblanco.org) and the Bandon Marsh National Wildlife Refuge, which is excellent for bird-watching. For lodging, try the eco-friendly Wildspring Guest Habitat (866-333-9453; www.wildspring.com), which has cedar cabins filled with art and antiques starting at $245.
 14. THE SAN JUAN ISLANDS
 Although the San Juan Islands in the Pacific Northwest can be reached by plane or boat, traveling by ferry will make you rethink your concept of mass transit. Although the ferries, part of the Washington State Department of Transportation (www.wsdot.wa.gov/ferries), are used mostly by commuters, these same ferries can be a leisurely (and economical) way to take in the stunning beauty of this popular tourist spot -- an archipelago of more than 450 tiny islands roughly halfway between Seattle and Vancouver. In particular, the route of the Illahee, the 45-minute ride between San Juan Island and Orcas Island, has been described by a writer for the Travel section as ''the most beautiful trip in the entire Washington State ferry system.'' 
 15. THE BOUNDARY WATERS
 Every summer, thousands of canoe paddlers head to the small Minnesota town of Ely to explore the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, a 1.3 million-acre park that runs along the border between the United States and Canada. The frenzy sometimes gives Ely the feel of the Old West, with travelers loading up on food and liquor before heading out into the great unknown. But the sights and sounds of a boomtown are soon replaced by the lull of a canoe gliding through water and the near-absence of any other living soul. Among the many local outfitters is the Piragis Northwoods Company (www.piragis.com), which offers four-day weekend excursions over the summer, with rates starting at $695 a person.
 16. QUEBEC CITY
 The city's celebration of its 400th anniversary will mean a full summer schedule of events, including a sound and light show with 2,000-foot-long grain silos serving as projection screens for images of the city; an exhibition of 277 pieces on loan from the Louvre at the Musee National des Beaux-Arts (866-220-2150; www.mnba.qc.ca); and -- mais oui -- a free concert by Celine Dion on Aug. 22 (418-648-2008; www.myquebec2008.com). 
 17. PASO ROBLES, CALIF. 
 Blame it on ''Sideways.'' Ever since that 2004 film uncorked central California as a discerning wine region, the boutique vineyards and wineries in Paso Robles have blossomed into the region's next viticulture center. The number of bonded wineries has tripled to 170 in recent years, cultivating everything from cabernet sauvignon to zinfandel. Elegant hotels like the Hotel Cheval (1021 Pine Street; 866-522-6999; www.hotelcheval.com) have sprouted. And so have delectable restaurants and artisanal shops like Pasolivo Olive Oil (8530 Vineyard Drive; 805-227-0186; www.pasolivo.com). For tasting maps, see the Paso Robles Wine Country Alliance's Web site, www.pasowine.com. 
 18. BAHIA HONDA KEY, FLA.
 Pristine beaches. Crystal blue waters. Zero development. Bahia Honda Key (www.bahiahondapark.com) might be mistaken for a chic Brazilian preserve, but this 524-acre islet in the Lower Florida Keys, between Key West and Marathon, is actually a state park with beautiful beaches, amazing snorkeling and a precious biodiversity with nurse sharks and trumpet-shaped lily thorns. Even rarer are the prices. Admission is $3.50 for one person. Snorkeling rentals start at $3 for a mask. And the park has three duplex cabins, with showers and a deck, that run under $140 a night.
 19. SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA
 Cavallo Point, a retreat center devoted to environmental health and sustainability, is opening on the grounds of the century-old Fort Baker, in Marin County across the Golden Gate from San Francisco. The latest step in the Bay Area's slow-food obsession, the complex officially opens June 14, with rotating guest chefs, a spa, adventure programs and an eagerly awaited restaurant. Units in the historic section, set in former lieutenants' and generals' quarters, start at $350 for a room with a view and $250 for one without a view (888-651-2003; www.cavallopoint.com).
 20. TELLURIDE, COLO.
 Sometimes called Little Switzerland, with its steep peaks, crisp streams, alpine basins and swaths of wildflowers, the ski resort of Telluride becomes a hiking mecca in the summer. Guided day trips as well as technical rock climbs can be arranged through the San Juan Outdoor School (300 South Mahoney Drive; 970-728-4101; www.tellurideadventures.com), starting at $125 a person for a group of four or more. The three-day ''adventure kids' camp'' program includes climbing, hiking and outdoor games $325for.
 21. OWYHEE RIVER, OREGON 
 Snaking through the remote eastern desert of Oregon, the Owyhee River, with its deep sandstone cliffs and silty desert waters, has garnered comparisons to the Colorado River or the Salmon. But its mild white water and lazy meanderings make it manageable for those who aren't experts but still want a classic river rafting adventure. An updated list of outfitters is available from the United States Bureau of Land Management office in Vale, Ore.; (541) 473-3144). 
 22. LAKE POWELL
 With nearly 200 miles of clear blue water and stark red rock, Lake Powell is a boating paradise. The lake, which straddles the Utah-Arizona border in the Glen Canyon National Recreation Area, is the second-largest artificial reservoir in the United States, after Lake Mead. And since you'll also need a place to stay, why not do so on a houseboat? Lake Powell Resorts & Marinas (888-896-3829; www.lakepowell.com) has a large fleet that includes the 46-foot-long Voyager XL, with an outdoor grill, stargazing cushions and enough beds to sleep eight, for $2,415 for three days. 
 23. FARMINGTON, N.M. 
 Not far from the Mesa Verde National Monument in New Mexico, in a cliff face near the La Plata River, sits a most bizarre -- but intriguing -- B.&B. option. Kokopelli's Cave is a one-bedroom cave home carved from a 65-million-year-old sandstone formation, with Southwestern-style furniture, food-stocked kitchens, a washer and dryer -- and views of the spectacular mountain ranges of the Four Corners region. The cave was blasted out in the 1980s by a geologist, Bruce Black, who planned to use it as an office. Instead, Mr. Black's son and daughter-in-law made it their home and transformed it into a B. &B. soon after. Rates start at $240 a night depending on the number of guests. (505-326-2461; www.bbonline.com/nm/kokopelli).
 24. MONTREAL
 Whether your iPhone is loaded with chamber music or Arcade Fire, Montreal is music to all ears this summer. The Osheaga Music and Arts Festival (www.osheaga.com), a new showcase for avant-garde talent, is on Aug. 3 and 4. The huge Montreal Jazz Festival (www.montrealjazzfest.com) takes over the entire city from June 26 to July 6, with 3,000 performers including Leonard Cohen and Woody Allen (yes, that one). And every Sunday, Piknic Electronik brings the rising stars of Montreal's electronic music scene to Jean Drapeau Park. The city's revamped Web site (www.tourisme-montreal.org) has listings, maps and a nifty planner. 
 25. TANGLEWOOD, MASS.
 For a little Brahms to go with your Brie, picnic under the stars at the Tanglewood Music Festival (www.tanglewood.org), the summer home of the Boston Symphony Orchestra in the pastoral MassachusettsBerkshires. Under the direction of James Levine, the symphony's opera-rich season kicks off on July 5 with a concert performance of ''Les Troyens'' by Berlioz and continues with weekend-long Beethoven and Mozart festivals. John Williams also returns to conduct the popular ''Boston Pops: Film Night at Tanglewood'' on July 26, featuring selections from his latest blockbuster with Steven Spielberg, ''Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull.''
 26. BEARTOOTH ROAD 
 Charles Kuralt once called it America's most beautiful highway, 68.7 miles of high-altitude, high-adrenaline road that zigzags through the Beartooth Mountains in Montana and Wyoming. He might have been right. The two-lane Beartooth All-American Road (www.beartoothhighway.com) climbs over 10,000 feet (Winnebago drivers: don't bother), going from forest to alpine tundra in an hour. Dazzling sights await around every hairpin turn: 12,000-foot-plus mountains, waterfalls, glacial lakes, wildflowers and the occasional mountain goat. Besides gawking, the area offers fly-fishing, hiking, even summer skiing. Midway along the route, you'll find affordable rooms at Top of the World Resort (2823 U.S. 212, Cody, Wyo.; 307-587-5368; www.topoftheworldresort.com) starting at $55, and plenty of other options in the gateway towns of Cooke City and Red Lodge in Montana. 
 27. PACIFIC NORTHWEST (BY RAIL)
 Amtrak's Empire Builder delivers a greatest hits of the American landscape. Beginning in Chicago, passing through the Great Plains and the other-worldly Glacier National Park and ending in Seattle or Portland, Ore., the roughly 48-hour ride is a throwback to the golden age of train travel. Old-fashioned dining cars serve freshly cooked meals (flat iron steak, roasted game hen) on tables decked out in white tablecloths. The panoramic sightseeing lounge and sleeping compartments have a certain ''North by Northwest'' charm. And rangers from the National Park service are periodically on board to provide narrative along the route as a part of a Trails and Rails program. Beyond the nostalgia, the Empire Builder cars were refurbished last year. Fares and accommodations vary; a mid-level two-berth roomette for two adults from Chicago to Seattle, with meals and nonalcoholic drinks, can range be $760 to over $900 (www.amtrak.com; 800-872-7245.)
 28. SUNSHINE COAST
 The Sunshine Coast of British Columbia certainly lives up to its name. Averaging upward of 2,400 hours of sunny skies a year, the resort area is two hours northwest of Vancouver and is dotted with scenic restaurants, hippie cafes and arty shops. Despite its popularity, the region remains pristine because the coastline is largely accessible by boat only. Kayakers will find marine life galore, including phosphorescent plankton that glow during moonlight paddles. Sunbathers will find long stretches of sandy beaches, lagoons and rocky tide pools. Lodging can be found near the town of Sechelt (www.sechelt.com). An affordable little resort called Rockwater Secret Cove (877-296-4593; www.rockwatersecretcoveresort.com) has its own beach, with rooms starting at 119 Canadian dollars. 
 29. JEMEZ SPRINGS, N.M. 
 The tiny town of Jemez Springs (www.jemezsprings.org), about an hour north of Albuquerque, is easy to miss. Except for an 1870s bathhouse in the center of town, there's little to tempt visitors except for several Southwestern diners, a family-run winery and a Japanese Buddhist monastery. And that's precisely its charm. You can spend the day hiking and fishing in the recently created Valles Caldera National Preserve (www.vallescaldera.gov), an 89,000-acre preserve inside a collapsed volcano, then spend the night soaking at the Jemez Springs Bathhouse (www.jemezspringsbathhouse.com), which was recently restored by the town and is fed by the smelly, steaming waters from the area's natural hot springs. An hour soak is $15, and massages start at $37. 
 30. MANITOBA
 On the surface, yoga and canoeing may seem like conflicting pastimes. Yoga involves stretching and letting your mind come to rest, while canoeing is about using force and repetitive motion. But marrying the two is exactly what Northern Soul Wilderness Adventures (www.northernsoul.ca) offers in the backwoods and glacial lakes outside Winnipeg, Manitoba. After paddling to a clearing in the forest, students lay down their mats and strike their yoga poses, surrounded by nothing but pine and scurrying chipmunks. The cost of the three-day trips (July 25 to 27 and Aug. 22 to 24) is 399 Canadian dollars. No prior canoeing or yoga experience is necessary. Meals are, not surprisingly, organic and vegetarian. 
 31. THE GLACIERS OF ALASKA
 In the land of the midnight sun, perhaps no summer activity is more otherworldly than hiking Alaska's majestic glaciers. Several outfitters offer guided summer excursions, including MICA Guides (800-956-6422; www.micaguides.com; $70 a person, plus entry fee into Glacier Park), which leads daytime and evening treks on Matanuska Glacier, two hours northeast of Anchorage. Midnight sun hikes on Alyeska Glacier are offered by Ascending Path (877-783-0505; www.theascendingpath.com; $139 a person) from June 13 to July 13, while more far-flung excursions are offered by North Star Trekking (www.glaciertrekking.com) and Above and Beyond Alaska (www.beyondak.com).

CORRECTION-DATE: June 8, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about 31 places to go this summer described Mesa Verde in Farmington, N.M., incorrectly. It is a national park, not a national monument.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Reached from Ely, Minn., the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness is a 1.3 million-acre park that runs along the border between the United States and Canada. At top left is the Alalik Glacier in Alaska. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD HAMILTON SMITH)
Ferries among the San Juan Islands, run by the Washington State Department of Transportation, are used by commuters and visitors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Salt Lick Bar B-Q, in Driftwood, Tex., is in Hill Country, which unlike much of the flat state, can evoke Europe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMTRAK TRAVEL)
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MALONEY
CHRIS RAMIREZ
CHRISTINNE MUSCHI
KEVIN MALONEY
MARY ANN CHASTAIN/ASSOCIATED
HARRAH'S ENTERTAINMENT
CARMEL ZUCKER
 AMTRAK TRAVEL) (PG.8 and pg.9) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA ROTHMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); FAMILY TRAVEL (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (72%); CYCLING (72%); BOATING & RAFTING (70%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (67%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (50%); WINERIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); CANADA (71%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



20 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Think the Economy Is Bad? Wait Till The States Cut Back

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Struggling as we are with the housing bust, the credit crunch, shrinking consumption, rising unemployment and faltering business investment, we can be forgiven for thinking that all the big shoes have dropped. There is another one up there, however, and it is about to come down. 
 State and city governments have yet to shrink the economy; indeed, they have even managed to prop it up. They have quietly maintained their spending at pre-crisis levels even as they warn of numerous cutbacks forced on them by declining tax revenues. The cutbacks, however, are written into budgets for a fiscal year that begins on July 1, a month away. In the meantime the states and cities, often drawing on rainy-day savings, have carried their share of the load for the national economy. 
 That share is gigantic. At $1.8 trillion annually in a $14 trillion economy, the states and municipalities spend almost twice as much as the federal government, including the cost of the Iraq war. When librarians, lifeguards, teachers, transit workers, road repair crews and health care workers disappear, or airport and school construction is halted, the economy trembles. None of that, or very little, has happened so far, not even in California, despite a significant decline in tax revenue. 
 ''We are looking at a $4 billion cut to public schools and deep cuts that will result in thousands of Californians losing their health care,'' said Jean Ross, executive director of the California Budget Project, offering a preview of coming hardships. ''But the reality is we have not pulled money off the streets yet.''
 Quite the opposite, the states and municipalities have increased their spending in recent quarters, bolstering the nation's meager economic growth. Over the past year, they have added $40 billion to their outlays, even allowing for scattered spending freezes and a few cutbacks in advance of July 1. Total employment has also risen. But when the current fiscal year ends in 30 days (or in the fall for many municipalities), state and city spending will fall, along with employment -- slowly at first and then quite noticeably after the next president takes office. 
 Sometime next year, the decline will reach an annual rate of $50 billion, Goldman Sachs estimates. ''It is a big reason to expect a weak economy in 2009,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief domestic economist at the firm. 
 The $90 billion swing -- from more spending to less -- could be enough to push down a weak economy to zero growth or less, because state and city spending has accounted for as much as half of total economic growth since last fall. (A robust economy has a growth rate of 3 percent to 4 percent, compared with the 0.9 percent or less of the last two quarters.) The $90 billion would certainly offset most of the $107 billion stimulus package now going out from the federal government to millions of Americans in the form of tax rebate checks. The hope is they will spend this windfall on consumption and in doing so sustain the economy. That might happen -- for a while. But with the cutbacks in state and city outlays canceling out the consumption, the next president, struggling to revive a weak economy, will almost certainly have to consider a second stimulus package.
 But what should it be? Should it be a reprise of the checks, relying again on private-sector spending for rejuvenation? Or should Washington channel extra federal money to city and state governments so they can sustain their outlays for the numerous programs that otherwise would be shrunk? The answer, even on Wall Street, is often: subsidize the states and cities.
 ''If you want to make sure that federal money gets spent, and jobs are created, you give it to them,'' said Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist at Global Insight, a forecasting firm. 
 Like many others, Mr. Gault contends that more than 50 percent of the $107 billion in stimulus checks now going to households is likely to produce no stimulus at all. Instead, it will be used to pay down debt or buy imported goods and services. Imports bolster production in other countries; not in the United States. 
 Still, rebate checks have been a standard tool for years in efforts to revive the American economy. So have tax cuts and -- the most popular tool of all -- the Federal Reserve's lowering of interest rates. Each tool assumes that people will respond to the incentive with more spending and investment, and markets will then work their magic. Not since the 1970s, when politicians still paid attention to the teachings of John Maynard Keynes, has public spending -- government spending -- surfaced in mainstream political debate as a potentially effective means of counteracting a downturn. 
 Government has to step in, Keynesians argue, when private spending is not enough to lift the economy, despite the nudge from tax cuts or lower interest rates or rebate checks. This downturn might be one of those moments, involving as it does the bursting of a huge housing bubble. That has precipitated sharp declines in various tax revenues on which the states and cities depend, forcing them into extraordinary spending cuts -- not yet, of course, but after July 1.
 The issue barely dents the presidential election campaign. The Republicans in particular are less than enthusiastic about Keynesian economics, with its use of government to rescue markets. They, and many mainstream economists, for that matter, argue that government is inefficient, bureaucratic, wasteful and unable to spend fast enough to counteract a downturn. The two Democratic candidates, in contrast, argue that a second stimulus package, if one is needed, should include federal subsidies to the states and municipalities, not to start new projects but to prevent cutbacks in existing ones.
 No state seems more vulnerable than Florida, with its plunging home prices and slashed property-tax assessments, not yet on the books but soon to be. In anticipation, the legislature in May approved a $66.5 billion budget for the coming fiscal year, down from $72 billion in the current one.
 Schools are a target, said Michael Sittig, executive director of the Florida League of Cities, ''but none has been hurt yet. Nevertheless, everyone is scared. Everyone is in the mode of trying to figure out how to get through next year'' -- starting 30 days from now.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDY RASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); CITIES (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); HEALTH CARE (67%); IRAQ WAR (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (52%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



21 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Chronicle: Wine

BYLINE: By BRYAN MILLER. 
Bryan Miller, a food and wine writer and cookbook author, is a former restaurant critic for The Times.

 BODY:
THE BILLIONAIRE'S VINEGAR The Mystery of the World's Most Expensive Bottle of Wine. By Benjamin Wallace. 319 pp. Crown. $24.95.
 Thomas Jefferson was America's first famous wine geek. The founding father had a lifelong infatuation with Bordeaux and regularly ordered shipments for his Virginia estate, Monticello. While living in Paris after the American Revolution, he took every opportunity to tour the major wine regions of France, to educate his palate and study viticulture. In his eight years in the White House, the connoisseur in chief, by then a respected international wine scholar, stockpiled some 20,000 bottles; in his first term alone, the wine tab has been estimated at more than $7,500 -- and this at a time when entertainment expenses came out of the chief executive's salary of $25,000.
 Jefferson was a fastidious record keeper. Entries from 1788, toward the end of his official posting in Paris, reveal that he ordered 125 bottles of Chateau Haut-Brion for Monticello, along with a batch of provisions that included some unidentified wines. The shipments never arrived. Or did they? In 1985, a bottle engraved with the initials ''Th. J.'' found its way to Christie's auction house in London. Although not unassailably authenticated, it went on the block anyway, fetching a price of $156,000. 
 In his captivating book, ''The Billionaire's Vinegar,'' Benjamin Wallace follows the twisting trail pitting those who maintain that the bottle -- and others from the same lot -- is the real thing against those intent on uncovering a scam. In the process, he explores the world of wine counterfeiters, who are ever more skilled thanks to modern technology. But the good guys have some tools too, like thermoluminescence and scintillators, which allow scientists to detect trace elements of radiation in wine sediment, thus establishing its true age.
 Wallace frames his narrative as a suspenseful mystery, although we pretty well know whodunit early on. He escorts readers through the fast and fulsome world of high-stakes wine collecting, where $1,000 bottles of grand cru Burgundy are guzzled like lemonade and conversations revolve around trophy wines in home cellars that can be the size of a high school gymnasium. At the same time, Wallace explores the contradictions in the lives of rich, presumably savvy businessmen (there isn't a single female collector in the book) who squander hundreds and thousands of dollars on old wines that may be unpalatable -- or, worse, counterfeit. 
 Even before the auction, rumors abounded that the Jefferson bottle was a phony and that the miscreant responsible was a dodgy character named Hardy Rodenstock, a onetime pop band manager and high-stakes wine collector. For decades, Rodenstock had displayed uncanny luck in ''discovering'' rare and coveted wines, some under questionable circumstances. Even as evidence mounted that his gold mine was little more than gravel -- in his former home, investigators found blank wine labels, old corks and empty bottles -- he refused to disclose precisely where he'd made his discovery. Although William I. Koch, the heir to an oil fortune and the owner of several ''Jefferson'' bottles, has sued Rodenstock, he has ignored the court orders and stayed in Europe. As for the remaining bottles, most rest in those private cellars, priceless conversation pieces.
 REFLECTIONS OF A WINE MERCHANT By Neal I. Rosenthal. Illustrated. 257 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $24.
 For more than 30 years, Neal I. Rosenthal, a New York-based wine importer, has been an avid, at times argumentative, advocate of traditionally made wines -- those created by family-run, small-scale artisans who reject the type of technical legerdemain that allows modern winemakers to produce flabby, fruit-drenched products for mass-market appeal. In other words, McPinots. ''The best of wines always proudly tell you from where they come,'' he maintains in ''Reflections of a Wine Merchant,'' adding, ''I would also argue that some of the greatest of wines have fallen into the trough of standard swill, attractively packaged, manufactured to impress, but lacking the individuality and intelligence that were part of their respective patrimony.'' Scotch and water anyone?
 While it's true that this global wave has been gaining strength for more than a decade, it might be overstatement to call it tidal. Rosenthal, who is certainly unhampered by humility -- he boasts that he can recall ''almost every wine that has passed my lips'' -- has resisted composing a 250-page jeremiad on industry trends. Instead, his book is a warm, personal, eloquent celebration of the people and places where tradition still survives. 
 The perception of a traveling wine buyer as a gentleman in a fine blazer, notepad in pocket, enjoying a semi-vacation of congenial sipping, is punctured by the reality of fast-paced barrel tastings (often starting right after breakfast) in cold, dank cellars. And, unlike many wine-professional journals, Rosenthal's book is mercifully uncluttered with industry argot.
 One of the more revealing sections recounts how, in the late 1970s, a monumental change in the industry was prompted by macroeconomics. At the time, spiraling inflation sparked striking rises in interest rates, placing a cash-flow squeeze on wineries. To alleviate the crunch, the spigot was opened and wines were put on the market that, in better times, would have remained in-house for further aging. This in turn led to the creation of simpler wines that could be consumed earlier. The trend spread to some of the more prestigious regions of France and Italy -- and continues today.
 THE BATTLE FOR WINE AND LOVE Or, How I Saved the World From Parkerization. By Alice Feiring. 271 pp. Harcourt. $23.
 About 10 years ago, in an article about wine criticism in America, I referred to Robert M. Parker Jr. as the Alan Greenspan of the grapevine set. Rarely has one individual exerted so much power in a particular industry. Today, winemakers from Napa to New Zealand study Parker's palate and create products aimed at making the great man smile. Not surprisingly, he's a controversial figure. In ''The Battle for Wine and Love: Or, How I Saved the World from Parkerization,'' the journalist Alice Feiring rants about everything she finds distasteful in the wine industry -- above all Parker, whom she seems to hold responsible for just about everything short of glacial melting.
 To be sure, she addresses many vital issues: the dumbing down of wine for mass-market tastes, overreliance on science in winemaking, the demise of small-scale traditional winemakers and more. It's just that Feiring's sometimes dogmatic and self-congratulatory tone can get a little tiresome. There's also a fair amount of insider jargon, so you might want to brush up in advance. Yet Feiring can be both lively and sardonic, especially when she's portraying the many characters encountered on her mad dashes around Europe. ''It was Sunday,'' she writes of a meeting with a top Champagne winemaker. ''Epernay was gray and still. In direct contrast was the jovial, hyper, bearded, unkempt, silver-haired and blue-eyed Pascal in his leprechaun-green jacket (which, he said, was the color of his winery).''
 ''The Battle for Wine and Love'' is loosely organized, but that's not a fault. Reading it is like taking a road trip with a smart-alecky friend who can't stop talking about the wines you're going to taste with dinner. And, refreshingly, this is one of the few books in this genre that focus on telling readers what not to drink. Toward the end, when Feiring finally decides to confront her archenemy, I couldn't wait for the sparks to fly. Disappointingly, the encounter amounts to two brief, occasionally testy, telephone conversations, mostly of a technical nature. If there was a zinger, it came when Feiring asked Parker if the wine world had room for other critical opinions. ''You know, I should be insulted,'' he replied. Do I hear ice melting?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM FOWLKS, MARY FAGOT AND BRIAN REA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HORTICULTURE (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (70%); COUNTERFEITING (68%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) VIRGINIA, USA (91%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Billionaire's Vinegar, The (Book)>; Reflections of a Wine Merchant (Book)>; Battle for Wine and Love, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



22 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; THE RAIL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Big Brown, Big Hype, Big Payday, Bad Drama

BYLINE: By JIM SQUIRES. 
Jim Squires has bred five graded stakes winners, including Monarchos, the 2001 Derby winner.

 BODY:
Not everybody in thoroughbred racing is giddy over the prospect of a Big Brown Triple Crown. 
 A lot of purists in the Kentucky bluegrass are unhappy with the nonstop boasting by his trainer, Rick Dutrow, and the announcement that he will not race beyond this year, maybe not after the Belmont. If Big Brown is rushed off to stud, his Triple Crown will be inevitably regarded as cheap -- a novelty in itself considering the money involved. 
 There are several reasons for this, not the least of which is the designation of ''great horse'' inevitably bestowed on Triple Crown winners. Deserved or not, it is a treasure zealously protected by Kentucky horsemen respectful of racing history and mindful of its eventual impact on breeding and sales. It is denied even to popular Kentucky Derby winners like Barbaro whose racing careers were cut short and to horses like A. P. Indy, who may well have been great but did not win the Derby. 
 The truly great horses were not determined by the kind of market blitz that will accompany the next one but by the quality of their racing careers, specifically their ability to carry speed and weight over a variety of distances against peers over many starts.
 Big Brown may have speed. To the eye, his turn of foot appears remarkable, even passing slow horses. But his time in the Kentucky Derby -- 2 minutes 1.82 seconds -- is pedestrian. Under equal track conditions, Secretariat at 1:59 2/5 would have beaten him by 10 lengths or more. Two other essential elements of greatness that Big Brown will apparently lack are racing distinction as a 2-year-old and durability. If he wins the Belmont, he will be undefeated in six races. The last Triple Crown winner, Affirmed, won 22 of 29 over all and 7 of 9 at 2. Citation won 7 of 9 at age 2 and was 18 of 20 after the Belmont. 
 The temptation to retire Big Brown undefeated will be so great and the marketing value so high that the comparison to Seattle Slew will be inevitable. One almost insures the other, underscoring the industry's basic weakness -- an obsession with hype and fast money. 
 In the minds of some, the quests of Big Brown and Seattle Slew are similar in that neither horse had to face much competition en route. Secretariat had to battle Sham every time, a horse that until Monarchos came along in 2001 had run the second-fastest Kentucky Derby in history. Affirmed had to defeat the formidable Alydar three times in what has to be the greatest Triple Crown rivalry ever. Slew ran away from horses never heard of before or since, which may well be said of those with whom Big Brown toyed at Churchill and Pimlico.
 No offense intended to either horse. They can only run against what is out there. And in Slew's case, he eventually won 14 of 17 over all, twice defeating Affirmed and being named Horse of the Year in 1978, cementing his greatness. But in the end, Slew was all about money, once commanding $750,000 for a single mating.
 Many industry insiders believe this was when the thoroughbred industry began to turn upside down. The boom from three Triple Crown winners in the 1970s sent stud fees and stallion share prices to absurd levels. Northern Dancer, perhaps the most expensive equine date in history, once commanded $1 million a mating. In those days, share prices -- or a percentage ownership in the stallion's career -- were valued at three times the season cost. Later, the multiple increased to five. Even today, when the cost of breeding to the most expensive and proven stallions has begun to recede, stud fees still top $300,000, which means a share can be sold for more than $1 million.
 The stage is now set for a remake of this bad drama. The estimated value of a Triple Crown winner going to stud now ranges as high as $100 million, the number bandied around when Smarty Jones was in the same spot in 2004 as Big Brown is today.
 Even after Birdstone won the Belmont and ruined the Triple Crown marketing blitz, Smarty Jones still commanded a $100,000 stud fee, a figure that, based on settling 100 mares, theoretically generates $10 million a year over the first two years at stud. The real return comes, however, if he succeeds as a stallion as Slew did and the share-price multiple ratio comes into play. Neither the Arabs of Dubai nor the Irish of Coolmore wanted Big Brown's owners, I.E.A.H., around if and when that happened to Big Brown.
 Just how big a stud fee will Big Brown command if he wins the Triple Crown? 
 The market will decide, but Three Chimneys will poll big-time breeders and rich owners to see how much they are willing to pay to be part of the first-year hype accompanying a Triple Crown champion. The mares will be among the best, meaning that for at least two years, they will drop off the book of a proven sire. The best guess is that even with his modest pedigree (by Boundary out of Mien) and short career, Big Brown will command $125,000 to $150,000 for the first two years, maybe more. This assures that 2011 and 2012 yearling sales will be flooded with 60 to 70 yearlings by an unproven sire. Yet these babies will need to average $300,000 to $450,000 to be considered profitable in a sport where hardly any racehorses ever earn that money. 
 This brand of economics is not new to an industry where risk is so integral and reason so trivial that the state where it is centered adopted a marketing theme, ''Unbridled Spirit.'' It might as well have been ''Unbridled Greed.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 4, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about Big Brown's place in history as a contender for the Triple Crown misstated the year in which a past winner, Seattle Slew, was named the horse of the year. It was 1977, not 1978.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Big Brown after a morning workout. If he wins the Belmont Stakes on Saturday, the temptation to retire him will be great.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); HORSES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



23 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Royal Care for Some of India's Patients, Neglect for Others

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India 

 BODY:
''To get the best care,'' Robin Steeles said gamely, ''you gotta pay for it.'' 
 Mr. Steeles, 60, a car dealer from Daphne, Ala., had flown halfway around the world last month to save his heart, at a price he could pay. He had a mitral valve repaired at a state-of-the-art private hospital here, called Wockhardt, and for 10 days, he was recuperating in a carpeted, wood-paneled room, with a view of a leafy green courtyard.
 A dietician helped select his meals. A dermatologist came as soon as he complained of an itch. His Royal Suite had cable TV, a computer, a minirefrigerator, where an attendant that afternoon stashed some ice cream, for when he felt hungry later. Three days after surgery, he was sitting in a chair, smiling, chattering, thrilled to be alive. 
 On his bed lay the morning's paper. Dominating its front page was the story of other men, many of them day laborers who laid bricks and mixed cement for Bangalore's construction boom, who had fallen gravely ill after drinking illegally brewed liquor. All told, more than 150 died that week, here and in neighboring Tamil Nadu State. 
 Not for them the care of India's best private hospitals. They had been wheeled in by wives and brothers to the overstretched government-run Bowring Hospital, on the other side of town. Bowring had no intensive care unit, no ventilators, no dialysis machine. Dinner was a stack of white bread, on which a healthy cockroach crawled while a patient, named Yelappa, slept. 
 Wockhardt has 30 ventilators, including some that are noninvasive, so the patient does not have to have a tube rammed down his throat. At any one time, a half-dozen are in use. An elderly woman had been in its intensive care unit for a week, on dialysis; her family wanted to do whatever possible to keep her alive, no matter the cost. 
 At Bowring, one of the young doctors, named Harish, said a ventilator and a dialysis machine would have allowed him to keep half of his patients alive. The most severe case, Mohammed Amin, was breathing with the aid of a hand pump that his wife squeezed silently. Dr. Harish sent the relative of one man to get blood tests done at the nearest private hospital; there was no equipment to do the test here. Then the doctor rushed to the triage section in Bowring's lobby, where the newest patient, writhing, resisting, disoriented from the poison in his gut, had to be tied down with bedsheets. 
 Where you stand on the Indian social ladder shapes to a large degree what kind of health you're in, and what kind of health care you receive. The beds in Bowring were taken up by small skinny men. One of Wockhardt's most popular offerings is a weight loss program, and the majority of walk-ins at its outpatient clinic suffer from diabetes, closely linked to obesity. 
 This is no anomaly. A government-sponsored National Family Health Survey released last fall says a woman born in the poorest 20 percent of the population is more than twice as likely to be underweight than one in the richest quintile, and 50 percent more likely to be anemic. 
 For children, the gap is equally stark. The poorest quintile is more than twice as likely to be stunted, a function of chronic malnutrition, and nearly three times less likely to be fully immunized. 
 It is not as if the poor do not seek treatment, Jishnu Das, an economist who studies health and poverty for the World Bank, points out. They do, and sometimes more often than the rich. It is just that they are more likely, Mr. Das says, to land at the doorstep of a caregiver who is incompetent, ill-trained or indifferent to their needs. 
 ''The poor are not dying and sick because they do not go to seek medical care,'' he said. ''In fact, the poor are going to doctors in droves. There are no good options for the poor. The private hospitals and care they are able to access is of very low quality, and when they try and access government care, they receive no attention whatsoever.'' 
 The survey found that two-thirds of Indian households rely on private medical care when sick, a preference that cuts across class. Asked why they don't use public facilities, the most common answer was poor care. 
 India has a countrywide network of government-funded primary health centers and hospitals, but staffing, medicines and resources vary widely. Some, especially in rural India, are notorious for having staff doctors on paper at best. This is only beginning to change. The government has increased health spending in recent years, and this year began a health insurance program that would allow people in poverty access to a hospital of their choice. 
 The Planning Commission of India this year found that in government-run health centers, 45 percent of gynecologist posts and 53 percent of pediatric posts went unfilled, and that salaries for government doctors are a fraction of those at new private hospitals like Wockhardt.
 Wockhardt struggles to fill its slots, too, but its facilities allow it to aggressively recruit, including from among Indian doctors who have worked abroad for years.
 The morning papers did not let Mr. Steeles forget the vast gulf between his predicament and that of the hooch drinkers fighting for life at Bowring. Yet as far apart as they were, their tales followed a somewhat parallel plot. The American health care system could no more care for Mr. Steeles than the Indian system could for Mr. Amin. 
 Mr. Steeles came here because he is uninsured, and could not afford heart surgery in the United States, he said, without liquidating most of his assets. After five months of research and e-mail messages to doctors worldwide, he chose a heart surgeon here in Bangalore. ''I'm over here for a fraction of what I would have paid in the United States,'' he said. ''In my personal situation, I'm just delighted I took the road that I did.'' 
 Mr. Steele's Royal Suite, incidentally, is available to anyone, Indian or foreigner, who can pay for it. After his stay here, he would move to a room at a private club for 16 days of further recovery, before flying home. All told, he said it cost him about $20,000, a tenth of what he would have paid at a private American hospital.
 Across town, among the hooch drinkers, a few of the worst cases had been transferred to private hospitals that had agreed to take them, at the government's expense. 
 Mr. Amin was too frail to be transferred. He died at Bowring, leaving behind a wife and two young children. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHAT BEING POOR MEANS: A government hospital in Banglaore that treated poisoning victims lacked equipment that might have saved lives.
 WHAT MONEY BUYS: Robin Steeles of Alabama was pampered during his 10 days at the private hospital in Bangalore, where he underwent heart surgery.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (89%); LOBBYING (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (71%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (70%); DERMATOLOGY (70%); DIALYSIS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); DIETING (64%)

COMPANY: WOCKHARDT LTD (57%)

TICKER: WOCKPHARMA (NSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2023 DRY CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (93%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (87%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



24 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Do Railroad Stocks Have More Power to Burn?

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
THE gyrations in the stock market this year may have prompted more than a few investors to reach for the Pepto-Bismol -- unless, of course, they were invested in oil wells, coal mines or cornfields.
 And then there were the railroads. The major railroad stocks have chugged far ahead of the stock market this year. Shares of CSX, the railroad company based in Jacksonville, Fla., are up more than 50 percent, and even the laggard in the group, Union Pacific, has risen more than 30 percent, compared with a decline of more than 4.6 percent in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
 ''The rails have been carried on this upward trend by their exposure to coal and grains,'' said Kevin Kirkeby, a transportation stock analyst at S.& P. 
 To be sure, transportation analysts say the railroads have been improving their business for years. They say that consolidation in the industry has given the companies more pricing power, and that the railroads are becoming more efficient while transporting more finished products to market.
 But it is the railroads' core business -- carrying raw materials -- that has sustained them through the softening economy and soaring fuel prices.
 Chief among the commodities they move is coal -- which accounts for 30 percent of freight and 22 percent of profits. The railroads have also been shipping more grains and fertilizer, which have benefited from the ethanol surge, Mr. Kirkeby said.
 He said railroads have continued to raise their rates over the last 12 months, thanks largely to the commodity boom. ''It is far easier to raise prices when your customers' products are on an uptrend,'' he said.
 The railroads have also been able to demand fuel surcharges, said Ed Wolfe, a transportation stock analyst who recently left Bear Stearns to form Wolfe Research in New York.
 ''Rising fuel prices have not hurt the railroads as much as they have other parts of the transportation sector,'' Mr. Wolfe said, adding that overcapacity has made it harder for truckers to pass along fuel surcharges to their customers.
 Although trains and trucks both run on diesel, railroads move more tons per gallon of fuel, Mr. Wolfe said, adding to their advantage over trucking companies.
 Anthony B. Hatch, an independent railroad analyst in New York, said that after the sharp rise in share prices, much of the good news was already reflected in the stocks. ''Over the long term, they are going to do tremendously well,'' he said. ''But in the short term, I would say they are fully priced.''
 Mr. Hatch said the railroad stocks were trading at around 16 times the analysts' consensus estimates for earnings next year. Historically, he said, the shares have traded anywhere from 10 to 16 times forward earnings estimates. 
 John G. Larkin, a railroad stock analyst at Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, an investment bank based in Baltimore, raised Union Pacific's stock to a ''buy'' last month. While he liked the outlook for the railroad industry as a whole, he said that after the run-up in share prices, ''it becomes a question of valuation.'' He called Union Pacific, which is based in Omaha, a turnaround story, and said the company might benefit from productivity improvements during an economic recovery.
 Mr. Larkin has ''hold'' ratings on two other railroad stocks that have been investor favorites: CSX and Burlington Northern Santa Fe, which is based in Fort Worth. Although he said he liked both companies, he was not recommending new share purchases at recent prices.
 A year ago, Warren E. Buffett began acquiring a large stake in Burlington Northern for Berkshire Hathaway, his holding company. Many analysts say that this has attracted investors who might not ordinarily buy railroad stocks.
 Mr. Larkin says investors have been enthusiastic about CSX because of a proxy battle now being waged by the Children's Investment Fund, a hedge fund based in London. He said that many investors thought the hedge fund could push the company to become more efficient.
 MR. Kirkeby, the railroad analyst at S.& P., favors Norfolk Southern, based in Norfolk, Va. Its stock has risen about 35 percent this year. But its valuation still lags behind those of the other three major lines. The stock has a trailing price-to-earnings ratio of less than 18, while the other three all have trailing P/E ratios around 20. 
 Mr. Kirkeby says Norfolk Southern has been less popular with investors because it is somewhat more dependent than the other three major American railroads on the troubled auto and housing construction sectors. But he says it should benefit from rising coal exports, which have increased since the dollar has fallen against the euro.
 ''It is kind of wild to think that we are exporting coal to Europe,'' Mr. Kirkeby said. ''But this is breathing new life into the Appalachian mines,'' and Norfolk Southern plies the Appalachian Mountains. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Union Pacific train near the Cascade Locks in Oregon. The stock prices of railroads have rallied as the need to transport raw materials has increased. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK BOWMER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TRENDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (87%); GASOLINE PRICES (87%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); COAL MINING (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); BIOFUELS (74%); ALCOHOLS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (70%); TRUCKING (68%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (67%); ETHANOL (66%)

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (90%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



25 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths JOHNSON, KEITH N.

 BODY:
 JOHNSON--Keith N. , aged 62, mathematician, economist and longtime resident of Lower Manhattan died suddenly and unexpectedly on May 11, 2008. Born May 30, 1945 to Robert and Helen Johnson, Keith was raised in Joliet, Illinois, graduated from Harvard University and pursued postgraduate studies at the Universities of Chicago and Pennsylvania where he received a Ph.D. in Economics from the Wharton School in 1979. Keith taught economics at Columbia and NYU and worked in the advisory groups of Townsend-Greenspan & Co., JP Morgan and Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. He ''retired'' in 1996, the better to pursue more theoretical interests in mathematics/econometrics and an equivalent passion for apartment/house remodeling and electric system design applied, in a tradition passed down from his father, for the benefit of family and friends. Keith was a remarkable individual, smart and compassionate well beyond the ordinary. He impacted many lives. He loved, he was loved and he will be missed. Keith is survived by his companion Kathryn Cruze, four brothers, Kent, Carl, Theodore and Glen (Deborah), a sister Ellen (Tim) Johnson-Caspar, two sons Jamil and Omar (Beth) Albertelli, an aunt, Betty Neiswender, numerous beloved nephews, nieces and grandchildren, Aria and Sarina. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CHILDREN (78%); MATHEMATICS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (68%)

COMPANY: SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (71%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (71%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



26 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths JOHNSON, KEITH N.

 BODY:
 JOHNSON--Keith N., aged 62, mathematician, economist and longtime resident of Lower Manhattan died suddenly and unexpectedly on May 11, 2008. Born May 30, 1945 to Robert and Helen Johnson, Keith was raised in Joliet, Illinois, graduated from Harvard University and pursued postgraduate studies at the Universities of Chicago and Pennsylvania where he received a Ph.D. in Economics from the Wharton School in 1979. Keith taught economics at Columbia and NYU and worked in the advisory groups of Townsend-Greenspan & Co., JP Morgan and Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. He ''retired'' in 1996, the better to pursue more theoretical interests in mathematics/econometrics and an equivalent passion for apartment/house remodeling and electric system design applied, in a tradition passed down from his father, for the benefit of family and friends. Keith was a remarkable individual, smart and compassionate well beyond the ordinary. He impacted many lives. He loved, he was loved and he will be missed. Keith is survived by his companion Kathryn Cruze, four brothers, Kent, Carl, Theodore and Glen (Deborah), a sister Ellen (Tim) Johnson-Caspar, two sons Jamil and Omar (Beth) Albertelli, an aunt, Betty Neiswender, numerous beloved nephews, nieces and grandchildren, Aria and Sarina. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CHILDREN (78%); MATHEMATICS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (68%)

COMPANY: SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (71%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (71%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



27 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MOLDAW, STUART G

 BODY:
 MOLDAW--Stuart G . March 25, 1927-May 24, 2008, a life-long business entrepreneur, philanthropist and friend to a wide range of civic, charitable and political organizations, died Saturday, May 24, 2008 at age 81. Mr. Moldaw, a loving husband, father and grandfather, is survived by his wife Phyllis, daughters Carol and Susan Moldaw, and four grandchildren. His wife and family were able to be with him during his illness and final hours of life. Mr. Moldaw, a pioneer in the specialty retail and clothing business, founded Ross Dress for Less in 1982 and was a founding investor in The Gymboree Corporation in 1986. Ross Stores is a Fortune 500 company with more than 900 locations, and Gymboree is a leading children's clothing and activity brand with 585 stores in the United States and Canada. Mr. Moldaw served as the Chairman of the Board at Ross Stores for more than a decade, and as Chairman Emeritus, he remained an active board member. He also was Chairman Emeritus of The Gymboree Corporation, and cofounded U.S. Venture Partners, a Menlo Park based venture capital firm. 
Mr. Moldaw started his first company, Country Casuals, in 1958 in Palo Alto, California, and went on to develop a successful retail presence based on a passion for customer service, a belief in distinctive marketing and a drive for competitive pricing. He was known for his foresight into customer preferences and for recognizing and fostering the strengths of his business partners and associates. Mr. Moldaw was born in Boston, Massachusetts, and spent his childhood in Brookline. His father was a Russian immigrant who came to the United States amid his homelands civil war. In 1944, Mr. Moldaw enlisted in the U.S. Navy and was called to active duty aboard a troop transport ship, the Ulysses S. Grant. After the war, he attended Syracuse University on the G.I. Bill, graduating in 1949 with a bachelor's degree in Marketing and Economics. While attending Syracuse, he met his future wife, Phyllis Israelson of Portland, Maine. They married in August 1950. Soon after graduating college, he went to work for the Le Bon Marche, a department store in Lowell, Massachusetts, and later G. Fox & Co., a specialty department store in Hartford, Connecticut. In 1955, he moved to California to take a job with Lerner Shops, and he went on to open more than 20 Lerner stores during the late 1950s. Always entrepreneurial, he gave his notice at Lerners in the spring of 1959 and struck out entirely on his own. Beyond his business accomplishments, Mr. Moldaw was a great believer in people and what they could accomplish in life. ''He was an unforgettable man a visionary, entrepreneur, leader and philanthropist,'' said Norman Ferber, chairman of Ross Stores. Mr. Moldaw served on the boards of many San Francisco Bay Area non-profit groups, including the Moldaw-Zaffaroni Boys and Girls Club of East Palo Alto, REDF, Communities in Schools, the Jewish Community Endowment Fund and the Palo Alto Medical Foundation. He was a member of the Board of Trustees of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, The San Francisco Ballet and KQED, and a leading supporter of 899 Charleston, a seniors living center in Palo Alto. In politics, he was a longtime, active Democrat who was appointed by President Clinton as a Public Delegate to the U.S. Mission at the United Nations in 1993 and as Chairman of the White House Commission on Presidential Scholars in 1996. In 2000, Gov. Gray Davis appointed Mr. Moldaw to chair California's World Trade Commission, and two years later to a serve as commissioner on the states Little Hoover Commission. In 2006, Mr. Moldaw captured his personal story in a book titled A Life Story For My Grandchildren. He wrote: ''My greatest happiness came not from money and possessions but from engagements, accomplish ments, challenges, the camaraderie with the people I have met along the way, and the love of my family. I also hope that my grandchildren will come to understand the joy of helping their less fortunate fellows to fulfill their dreams. We can do so much to make the world a better place. The advantage of financial wellbeing can make a person indulgent, rob him of the true measure of meaningful accomplishment and allow him to live a shallow life; or it can give him the ability to make a difference in the world that cries out for compassion, action and commitment.'' Mr. Moldaw's family is planning a private service. A memorial celebration of his life will take place at a later date. The family requests that any memorial gifts be made to The Moldaw-Zaffaroni Boys and Girls Club of East Palo Alto, Eastside College Preparatory School, The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, and The Jewish Community Federation of San Francisco. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GRANDPARENTS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); NAVIES (68%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (65%); MILITARY VESSELS (63%); ARMED FORCES (63%)

COMPANY: GYMBOREE CORP (94%); ROSS STORES INC (57%); LE BON MARCHE MAISON ARISTIDE BOUCICAUT (52%); G FOX (52%)

TICKER: ROST (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448130 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' CLOTHING STORES (94%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (94%); SIC5641 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' WEAR STORES (94%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (69%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (69%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



28 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MOLDAW, STUART G

 BODY:
 MOLDAW--Stuart G. March 25, 1927-May 24, 2008, a life-long business entrepreneur, philanthropist and friend to a wide range of civic, charitable and political organizations, died Saturday, May 24, 2008 at age 81. Mr. Moldaw, a loving husband, father and grandfather, is survived by his wife Phyllis, daughters Carol and Susan Moldaw, and four grandchildren. His wife and family were able to be with him during his illness and final hours of life. Mr. Moldaw, a pioneer in the specialty retail and clothing business, founded Ross Dress for Less in 1982 and was a founding investor in The Gymboree Corporation in 1986. Ross Stores is a Fortune 500 company with more than 900 locations, and Gymboree is a leading children's clothing and activity brand with 585 stores in the United States and Canada. Mr. Moldaw served as the Chairman of the Board at Ross Stores for more than a decade, and as Chairman Emeritus, he remained an active board member. He also was Chairman Emeritus of The Gymboree Corporation, and cofounded U.S. Venture Partners, a Menlo Park based venture capital firm. 
Mr. Moldaw started his first company, Country Casuals, in 1958 in Palo Alto, California, and went on to develop a successful retail presence based on a passion for customer service, a belief in distinctive marketing and a drive for competitive pricing. He was known for his foresight into customer preferences and for recognizing and fostering the strengths of his business partners and associates. Mr. Moldaw was born in Boston, Massachusetts, and spent his childhood in Brookline. His father was a Russian immigrant who came to the United States amid his homelands civil war. In 1944, Mr. Moldaw enlisted in the U.S. Navy and was called to active duty aboard a troop transport ship, the Ulysses S. Grant. After the war, he attended Syracuse University on the G.I. Bill, graduating in 1949 with a bachelor's degree in Marketing and Economics. While attending Syracuse, he met his future wife, Phyllis Israelson of Portland, Maine. They married in August 1950. Soon after graduating college, he went to work for the Le Bon Marche, a department store in Lowell, Massachusetts, and later G. Fox & Co., a specialty department store in Hartford, Connecticut. In 1955, he moved to California to take a job with Lerner Shops, and he went on to open more than 20 Lerner stores during the late 1950s. Always entrepreneurial, he gave his notice at Lerners in the spring of 1959 and struck out entirely on his own. Beyond his business accomplishments, Mr. Moldaw was a great believer in people and what they could accomplish in life. ''He was an unforgettable man a visionary, entrepreneur, leader and philanthropist,'' said Norman Ferber, chairman of Ross Stores. Mr. Moldaw served on the boards of many San Francisco Bay Area non-profit groups, including the Moldaw-Zaffaroni Boys and Girls Club of East Palo Alto, REDF, Communities in Schools, the Jewish Community Endowment Fund and the Palo Alto Medical Foundation. He was a member of the Board of Trustees of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, The San Francisco Ballet and KQED, and a leading supporter of 899 Charleston, a seniors living center in Palo Alto. In politics, he was a longtime, active Democrat who was appointed by President Clinton as a Public Delegate to the U.S. Mission at the United Nations in 1993 and as Chairman of the White House Commission on Presidential Scholars in 1996. In 2000, Gov. Gray Davis appointed Mr. Moldaw to chair California's World Trade Commission, and two years later to a serve as commissioner on the states Little Hoover Commission. In 2006, Mr. Moldaw captured his personal story in a book titled A Life Story For My Grandchildren. He wrote: ''My greatest happiness came not from money and possessions but from engagements, accomplish ments, challenges, the camaraderie with the people I have met along the way, and the love of my family. I also hope that my grandchildren will come to understand the joy of helping their less fortunate fellows to fulfill their dreams. We can do so much to make the world a better place. The advantage of financial wellbeing can make a person indulgent, rob him of the true measure of meaningful accomplishment and allow him to live a shallow life; or it can give him the ability to make a difference in the world that cries out for compassion, action and commitment.'' Mr. Moldaw's family is planning a private service. A memorial celebration of his life will take place at a later date. The family requests that any memorial gifts be made to The Moldaw-Zaffaroni Boys and Girls Club of East Palo Alto, Eastside College Preparatory School, The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, and The Jewish Community Federation of San Francisco. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GRANDPARENTS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); NAVIES (68%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (65%); MILITARY VESSELS (63%); ARMED FORCES (63%)

COMPANY: GYMBOREE CORP (94%); ROSS STORES INC (57%); LE BON MARCHE MAISON ARISTIDE BOUCICAUT (52%); G FOX (52%)

TICKER: ROST (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448130 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' CLOTHING STORES (94%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (94%); SIC5641 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' WEAR STORES (94%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (69%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (69%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



29 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: The Problem With the Corporate Tax

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to President Bush and advised Mitt Romney in his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.

 BODY:
AT this point in the presidential campaign, Senator John McCain is the candidate of ideas on issues of tax policy. Too many ideas, in fact. While some of his ideas are great, others are almost laughable. 
 The one that has received the most attention recently -- a gas-tax holiday -- falls in the second category. Many economists and policy wonks advocate raising the tax on gasoline to address problems ranging from global climate change to local traffic congestion. It is hard to find one who thinks that a temporary cut in the gas tax is a sensible response to the current spike in gas prices.
 Lost in this hubbub, however, is a bigger idea that Mr. McCain and his economic team have put forward: a cut in the corporate tax rate, to 25 percent from 35 percent. It is perhaps the best simple recipe for promoting long-run growth in American living standards. 
 Cutting corporate taxes is not the kind of idea that normally pops up in presidential campaigns. After all, voters aren't corporations. Why promise goodies for those who can't put you in office?
 In fact, a corporate rate cut would help a lot of voters, though they might not know it. The most basic lesson about corporate taxes is this: A corporation is not really a taxpayer at all. It is more like a tax collector.
 The ultimate payers of the corporate tax are those individuals who have some stake in the company on which the tax is levied. If you own corporate equities, if you work for a corporation or if you buy goods and services from a corporation, you pay part of the corporate income tax. The corporate tax leads to lower returns on capital, lower wages or higher prices -- and, most likely, a combination of all three.
 A cut in the corporate tax as Mr. McCain proposes would initially give a boost to after-tax profits and stock prices, but the results would not end there. A stronger stock market would lead to more capital investment. More investment would lead to greater productivity. Greater productivity would lead to higher wages for workers and lower prices for customers.
 Populist critics deride this train of logic as ''trickle-down economics.'' But it is more accurate to call it textbook economics. Students in introductory economics courses learn that the burden of a tax does not necessarily stay where the Congress chooses to put it. That lesson is especially relevant when thinking about the corporate tax. 
 In a 2006 study, the economist William C. Randolph of the Congressional Budget Office estimated who wins and who loses from this tax. He concluded that ''domestic labor bears slightly more than 70 percent of the burden.''
 Mr. Randolph's analysis stresses the role of international capital mobility. With savings sloshing around the world in search of the highest returns, he says, ''the domestic owners of capital can escape most of the corporate income tax burden when capital is reallocated abroad in response to the tax.'' When capital leaves a country, the workers left behind suffer. (According to Mr. Randolph, however, some workers do benefit from the American corporate tax: those abroad who earn higher wages from the inflow of capital.)
 A similar result was found in a recent Oxford University study by Wiji Arulampalam, Michael P. Devereux and Giorgia Maffini. After examining data on more than 50,000 companies in nine European countries, they concluded that ''a substantial part of the corporation income tax is passed on to the labor force in the form of lower wages,'' adding that ''in the long-run a $1 increase in the tax bill tends to reduce real wages at the median by 92 cents.''
 Despite these findings, a corporate tax cut as a way to help workers may strike some people as needlessly indirect. Why not just pass an income tax cut aimed squarely at working families, as Senator Barack Obama proposes? 
 The answer is that while most taxes distort incentives and shrink the economic pie, they do not do so equally. Compared with other ways of funding the government, the corporate tax is particularly hard on economic growth. A C.B.O. report in 2005 concluded that the ''distortions that the corporate income tax induces are large compared with the revenues that the tax generates.'' Reducing these distortions would lead to better-paying jobs. 
 Of course, a corporate tax cut would affect the federal budget. And any change in tax policy has to be made against a background of a looming fiscal crisis, which threatens to unfold as baby boomers retire and start collecting Social Security and Medicare. In 2007, corporate taxes brought in $370 billion, representing 14 percent of federal revenue. Cutting the rate to 25 percent would seem to cost the Treasury about $100 billion a year.
 Part of that revenue loss, however, would be recouped through other taxes. To the extent that shareholders would benefit, they would pay higher taxes on dividends, capital gains and withdrawals from their retirement accounts. To the extent that workers would benefit, they would pay higher payroll and income taxes. Increased economic growth would tend to raise tax revenue from all sources. 
 SOME economists think that these effects are strong enough to make a corporate rate cut self-financing. A recent study by Alex Brill and Kevin A. Hassett of the American Enterprise Institute, looking at countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, supports exactly that conclusion. But even if that turns out to be too optimistic, both theory and evidence make it reasonable to expect a significant discount from the sticker price. In the end, the net budgetary cost of the tax cut might be, say, $50 billion a year.
 Senator McCain wants to fill that hole in the budget by restraining spending. If he can stop bloated legislation like the recent $300 billion farm bill from becoming law, more power to him.
 But in case that quest proves quixotic, I have a back-up plan for him: increase the gasoline tax. With Americans consuming about 140 billion gallons of gasoline a year, a gas-tax increase of about 40 cents a gallon could fund a corporate rate cut, fostering economic growth and reducing a variety of driving-related problems. 
 Indeed, if we increased the tax on gasoline to the level that many experts consider optimal, we could raise enough revenue to eliminate the corporate income tax. And the price at the pump would still be far lower in the United States than in much of Europe. 
 Don't laugh. I'm serious. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CORPORATE TAX (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); SUMMER 2008 GAS TAX HOLIDAY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GASOLINE (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (74%); TAX RELIEF (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (69%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



30 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; FISHING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Lobstermen Hope for a Reprieve

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
 LONG Island Sound's ailing lobster industry is trying to recover from a slump that has lasted nearly a decade, but it won't be getting any help this year from Connecticut's state legislature.
 Just before the legislative session ended this year, lawmakers passed on a proposal to allocate $1.1 million to continue supporting a state lobster program that aims to help restore the dwindling lobster stock. The program, which helps restock the population by marking female lobsters to protect them from capture while they spawn, is also providing economic assistance to lobster fishermen whose income was adversely affected by mass lobster deaths in 1999. The program pays them for each female lobster they mark with a V-shaped notch on their tail and then return to the water. But the program will not be able to continue past June 30 without the additional financing. 
 A spokesman for Gov. M. Jodi Rell said she hopes to sit down soon with state environmental officials and lobstermen ''to see if there is a way to continue this important program with existing appropriations.'' 
 The proposal to renew funding for the lobster recovery effort became a victim of fears about declining state revenues and widening deficits. When Governor Rell, a Republican, and the Democratic lawmakers who control the legislature agreed not to make any increases in the two-year state budget passed in 2007, it meant the lobster program would not get new financing. 
 Connecticut's V-notch program was begun late last year with $1 million in state money. It was seen as a last-ditch effort to help revive a lobster population that has never recovered from the catastrophic die-off in 1999. Some experts believe that as many as 80 percent of the Sound's lobsters were lost.
 Scientists who investigated the die-off believe that an unusually warm summer that year raised water temperatures, leaving the lobsters more vulnerable to parasites and pollution. Many lobstermen and some scientists are convinced that spraying to kill mosquitoes carrying the West Nile Virus was a key factor, but other researchers say there isn't enough evidence to support that claim.
 Before 1999, lobster boats in New York and Connecticut were landing close to 12 million pounds a year, worth an estimated $42 million. The catch has dropped to about two to three million pounds a year, with a value of about $8 million, according to surveys by the National Marine Fisheries Service. Marine experts and commercial lobstermen say the V-notch program is critical to reviving the lobster industry in this area.
 ''If we don't get funding for this program, it will ultimately be the end of commercial lobstering in Long Island Sound,'' warned Nicholas Crismale, a Branford fisherman who is head of the Connecticut Commercial Lobstermen's Association. ''If it wasn't for this V-notch program, I couldn't afford to go on.''
 ''It's the last thing we've got for survival,'' said Peter Consiglio, another Branford lobsterman. ''With the cost of fuel at this point, I don't know if we're going to make it.''
 Connecticut's lobster revival program is similar to one begun in Rhode Island after a major oil spill in 1996 killed an estimated nine million lobsters. The V-notch plan has been credited with helping to revive Rhode Island lobster stocks by boosting the number of breeding-age females, which resulted in an increase in the number of lobster larvae.
 The Connecticut program pays commercial fishermen market rates for each female lobster above the legal size limit (of three and five-sixteenths inches long) that is caught, marked and released. Eric M. Smith, director of Connecticut's marine fisheries unit, said the state is currently paying $6.87 per lobster, with discounted rates for smaller-than-legal females that are caught, marked and released. 
 The program also offers teenagers along the Connecticut shoreline the chance to participate in the special lobster conservation effort. High schools from New London, New Haven and Bridgeport have been scheduled to take part in the program.
 Dennis Schain, a spokesman for the state Department of Environmental Protection, said his agency expects to spend all but about $250,000 of the initial allocation by the time the state's fiscal year ends on June 30. He said the money spent so far has paid for insurance, equipment and supplies in addition to payments to individual lobstermen.
 ''Right now, that program is in danger,'' said State Representative Richard Roy, a Milford Democrat who is co-chairman of the General Assembly's Environment Committee. 
 ''I haven't given up hope. I just can't see us walking away from this,'' Mr. Roy said. 
 Concern about the Sound's lobsters and the people who make their living from them isn't confined to Connecticut.
 ''I think a lot of guys aren't going to be able to continue if this is another bad year,'' said John German, a fisherman based in Mount Sinai, N.Y., and head of the Long Island Sound Lobstermen's Association.
 Mr. German said lobster fishermen are not only dealing with a scarcity of lobsters and rising fuel costs, but also a drop in demand from restaurants and a corresponding decline in the prices being paid for lobsters. According to Mr. German, lobsters that sold for $9 a pound last year are now bringing only $5.50 a pound.
 The number of licensed lobster fishermen in New York dropped from 746 in 1999 to 442 today, according to Kim McKown, crustacean team leader for the New York Department of Environmental Conservation.
 Mr. Smith said commercial lobster licenses issued in Connecticut plunged from 440 in 1998 to 252 last year. 
 The V-notch program, he said, is critical to the recovery of the lobster industry. ''If the stocks don't recover, you won't see the catch recover.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CATCH AND RELEASE: Above, Nicholas Crismale, left, and Enio Lara in Long Island Sound, where catches are down. Left, a lobster marked for protection with a V. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRUSTACEANS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (76%); FISHERIES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); WEST NILE VIRUS (61%); VIRUSES (50%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



31 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: It's All About Leverage

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Barack Obama is getting painfully close to tying himself in knots with all his explanations of the conditions under which he would unconditionally talk with America's foes, like Iran. His latest clarification was that there is a difference between ''preparations'' and ''preconditions'' for negotiations with bad guys. Such hair-splitting word games do not inspire confidence, and they play right into the arms of his critics. The last place he wants to look uncertain is on national security.
 The fact is, Mr. Obama was right to say that he would talk with any foe, if it would advance U.S. interests. The Bush team negotiated with Libya to give up its nuclear program, even after Libya had accepted responsibility for blowing up Americans on Pan Am Flight 103. Those negotiations succeeded, though, not because Mr. Bush was better ''prepared,'' but because, at the time, shortly after the invasion of Iraq, Mr. Bush had leverage. Iraq had yet to fall apart. 
 Mr. Obama would do himself a big favor by shifting his focus from the list of enemy leaders he would talk with to the list of things he would do as president to generate more leverage for America, so no matter who we have to talk with the advantage will be on our side of the table. That's what matters.
 Mr. Bush was also right: talking with Iran today would be tantamount to appeasement -- but that's because the Bush team has so squandered U.S. power and credibility in the Middle East, and has failed to put in place any effective energy policy, that negotiating with Iran could only end up with us on the short end. We don't have the leverage -- the allies, the alternative energy, the unity at home, the credible threat of force -- to advance our interests diplomatically today.
 As I have argued before: When you have leverage, talk. When you don't have leverage, get some. Then talk.
 Right now Iran & Friends -- Hezbollah, Hamas and Syria -- have a strategy that has produced leverage for them, and the next U.S. president is going to have to think afresh how to counter it. The ''Iran & Friends'' strategy is built on five principles: 
 Principle No. 1: Always seek ''control without responsibility.'' In Lebanon, Gaza and Iraq, Iran & Friends have veto power over the politics, without being held fully responsible for the electricity. America's allies, by contrast, tend to have ''responsibility without control.''
 Principle No. 2: Always insist on being able to both run for political office and bear arms. In Lebanon, Gaza and Iraq, America's opponents are both in the government and have their own militias.
 Principle No. 3: Use suicide bombing and targeted assassinations against any opponents who get in your way. In Lebanon, Syria is widely suspected to have been behind the spate of killings of anti-Syrian journalists and parliamentarians. One suicide attack on a major official in Iraq can neutralize superior U.S. power. 
 Principle No. 4: Use the Internet as a free command and control system for raising money, recruiting and operations. 
 Principle No. 5: Cast yourself as the ''resistance'' to Israel and America, so any opposition to you is equal to support for Israel and America and so no matter how badly you are defeated the mere fact that you ''resisted'' means you didn't really lose.
 Do the pro-American Arab moderates have a counterstrategy with leverage? I just got the new book, ''The Arab Center,'' by Marwan Muasher, the former foreign minister of Jordan. Retired Arab statesmen don't often write books about their time in office, but Mr. Muasher has, and his argument is a powerful one: Arab moderates have been on the defensive because they have been ''one-dimensional moderates,'' focused only on moderate proposals for making peace with Israel, while ignoring other issues important to Arab citizens: good governance, political reform, economic well-being, women's rights and religious and cultural diversity.
 ''For the Arab moderates to have credibility, they have to assume more responsibility,'' says Muasher. America could help by delivering on the Arab moderates' main issue -- a Palestinian-Israeli peace deal. But, ultimately, he said, if the Arab center is to shape the future and rid ''itself of the image its opponents paint of an apologist for the West or a compromiser of Arab rights,'' it will have to meet the challenge of building ''a robust, diverse, tolerant, democratic, and prosperous Arab society.''
 There has been some promising moderate push back against extremists in Iraq, Lebanon and the West Bank lately. It's definitely worth watching, but is still very frail. America's leverage will be limited as long our key allies do not have a strategy, with weight, to counter the hard-liners. Here's hoping that once the primary silly season is over, the McCain and Obama camps will stop jousting over whether to talk with our enemies -- which we must -- and will start focusing instead about how we and our friends get more chips to bargain with -- which we lack. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); VETO (71%); POLITICS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); HAMAS (60%); HEZBOLLAH (60%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); LEBANON (90%); SYRIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



32 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: A Union President Presses for Growth Amid a New Round of Criticisms

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
As 2,000 convention delegates gather in Puerto Rico, the Service Employees International Union is about to jettison a time-honored union tradition -- having members go to their union representatives with their questions and grievances.
 The delegates are expected to vote to have union members rely on call centers instead to handle their problems. 
 Union officials say these 24-hour centers would provide the union's members with faster and more expert service, usually in their own language, and would free up union representatives to focus on the union's No. 1 goal: organizing more workers. 
 But some union leaders and members complain that the call centers would hurt the union and its members.
 ''Sometimes you can't get through to these centers,'' said Eva Lozada, a home-care worker from Oakland, Calif. ''It's like talking to an A.T.M. This will be bad for the union.'' 
 This is just one of the complaints that Andrew L. Stern, the union's president, faces as he seeks to transform the union, already the nation's fastest growing, to make it grow even faster. 
 Mr. Stern, whose union has nearly 1.7 million members, is facing considerable internal criticism that he is seeking to increase the union's size and the leadership's power at the expense of rank-and-file members.
 ''He's taking things in a bad direction because he's taking steps without involving any workers,'' said Sal Rosselli, president of United Healthcare Workers West, which represents 140,000 S.E.I.U. members in California.
 Mr. Stern insists that the changes will help rank-and-file workers and are vital not just to make his union stronger, but also to transform the nation's politics and policies. 
 The union is organized labor's biggest and most vocal backer of Senator Barack Obama of Illinois and it is already making plans to mobilize more than 100,000 members, make 10 million calls and spend more than $50 million to press for universal health coverage and pro-union legislation in Mr. Obama's first 100 days as president -- if he is elected.
 ''We're at a once-in-a-lifetime moment in American history,'' Mr. Stern said. ''People completely understand that this new economy is not working for workers. People think America is headed in the wrong direction and want a serious change in direction. We believe we are in a position to make sure that happens.''
 Mr. Stern says it is important to push to unionize millions of workers both to lift wages and benefits for nonunion workers and to prevent union members' wages and benefits from being pulled down.
 ''For us the fundamental question at the convention is, Are we going to spend the next four years just worrying about us or worrying about achieving justice for all and passing on to others some of what we've been able to accomplish for our members?'' he said.
 The S.E.I.U. is expected to pass some bold resolutions, including the call center one, which Mr. Stern supports. ''We have a 1930s teletype model of representation in the 21st century world,'' Mr. Stern said. ''You can Google almost anything. But then you call your local union office and you have to push 1 or 2 and then you can't find someone who speaks the language you speak.''
 To make it easier to unionize workers at giant, nationwide employers, the delegates are likely to give more power to nationwide strategy councils that will help set the ground rules for unionizing and bargaining with those employers. The delegates are also expected to authorize top leaders to discipline local union officials and redraw the geographic lines of union locals when they flout the policies set by the nationwide councils.
 Mr. Stern's allies say those measures are designed to make sure every local pulls together to maximize growth, but Mr. Rosselli says, ''My main concern is these measures are designed to stifle dissent.''
 Mr. Stern said the resolutions are part of an effort dating from 1996, when he became the S.E.I.U.'s president, to increase organizing. The union now spends 50 percent of its budget on organizing, up from 20 percent. One resolution calls for unionizing at least 500,000 workers over the next four years. 
 In recent months, the union's top leaders have come under fire for accepting lower increases in wages and benefits in some hospital contracts in exchange for the hospital corporations' agreeing not to fight unionization drives at some of their hospitals. Moreover, the union's leaders have been criticized for negotiating secret deals with some employers that gave the service employees the green light to organize workers at certain locations designated by the employer, while the union made some concessions on pay or other areas.
 Those moves have some members complaining that they have been left in the dark. But Mr. Stern's allies say those moves are innovative strategies to speed union growth.
 ''The union's mantra has been organize or die trying, and it has been pretty successful in increasing its numbers to help improve wages and benefits,'' said Janice Fine, a labor relations professor at Rutgers University. ''Now the S.E.I.U. is grappling with the consequences of some of the steps it took to achieve that growth.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); CALL CENTERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HISTORY (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (72%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); PUERTO RICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



33 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: My American Dream: No Gas Pumps

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Truth or Consequences'' (column, May 28):
 Thomas L. Friedman's fantasy of presidential energy policy truth-telling is a variation of my own pipe dream and about as unlikely to happen. 
 I envision a future president setting an oil-independence deadline reminiscent of John F. Kennedy's declaration that the United States would land a man on the Moon within 10 years. 
 This mythical president would declare it against our national economic and security interests to remain on the oil standard, and unpatriotic for manufacturers to continue to produce gas guzzlers. He or she would declare a war on oil by challenging the country to conserve and convert. 
 Mr. Friedman's ''stick'' method would be a start, but more would be accomplished with generous carrots, like tax incentives for companies such as Tesla Motors and others seriously committed to alternatives to the internal combustion engine. We'd be taking care of a big share of the global warming problem at the same time.
 Mary Ann Kae Seattle, May 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman's fantasy is a bit mild for my taste. The better vision is one where the president of the United States acts with true leadership by inspiring the nation to rise to new heights in addressing global warming. 
 The entrepreneurs, engineers and scientists of this country would be called upon to unleash the creative genius of American ingenuity to develop new products and technologies that we can distribute throughout the world. New industries and markets would flourish, and our debt to China would be exchanged for clean technologies. 
 We would regain our self-respect and the respect of the world. National pride would be found in our contributions to the welfare of all humankind and in protecting the natural world. 
 But, hey, it's just a fantasy. 
 Frank Zika San Luis Obispo, Calif., May 28, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Why not choose the proven, more efficient way to manage most everything? Let the market decide which vehicles we wish to drive, and how much we are willing to pay for fuel.
 I realize that this is counter to the liberal way, but it will work. Try it. 
 Rick Millman Fort Lauderdale, Fla., May 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman is correct that the rising price of gasoline is having a positive effect -- people are driving less, S.U.V.'s are in less demand, and people are turning from gas guzzlers to more fuel-efficient cars. 
 But one factor needs mentioning. The high price of hybrid cars is prohibitive. Yes, the value of Mr. Friedman's hybrid goes up and up. But that is the reason many people can't afford one. 
 To really make a shift in our energy economy, not only must the price of gasoline remain high, but also the price of the hybrid must become affordable. 
 Let's not forget the effect on working people when both the price of fuel and the price of fuel-efficient cars are high.
 Marilyn Simon Boca Raton, Fla., May 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I would argue that our energy policy needs to be even more comprehensive.
 Introduce a gas tax? Sure. Include tax breaks for business owners looking to go green? Naturally. Provide tuition breaks for students going into the energy sciences and engineering? Makes sense. Provide incentives for cities to invest in environmentally sound infrastructure? Absolutely. We need a president who thinks systematically.
 In St. Louis, millions of taxpayer dollars aren't going to the development of a public transportation system that would curb emissions.
 (Affluent suburbanites may recycle their Evian bottles, but they don't want a commuter rail next to their beloved Straub's.) 
 Instead, the city decided to widen its main highway from six lanes to eight, thereby increasing the number of vehicles on the road by as much as 25 percent. 
 Alas, if you build it, they will come -- and now at $4 a gallon. Susan Berardi Wildwood, Mo., May 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 We won't be hearing our politicians actually telling the truth about an effective energy policy anytime soon because the voting public isn't ready for that truth. With rare exceptions, few public figures are willing to follow Thomas L. Friedman down the road to higher gasoline taxes.
 The environmental movement, which has every reason to back such ideas, has all but abandoned energy taxes in favor of the Rube Goldberg alternative of cap and trade. 
 They would rather deal with the regulatory nightmare of such a plan than risk alienating their donors by promoting the much simpler approach of taxing first gasoline then carbon.
 Politicians are public servants, and they won't give us an effective energy policy until we ask for it. But whether we ask for it or not, we will certainly get the energy policy we deserve. 
 Geoff Berg Warren, R.I., May 28, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL CASSARO0 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TAX INCENTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: TESLA MOTORS INC (56%)

TICKER: TSLA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (51%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



34 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; TRANSCRIPT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1759 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Remarks in San Juan

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's remarks to supporters in San Juan, P.R., on the day of the Puerto Rico primary, as provided by the Clinton campaign:
 Thank you so much. I have four words for you: Te quiero Puerto Rico!
 Never before have these beautiful islands had such an important voice in a presidential election. And I have thoroughly enjoyed my time here. I cannot thank you all enough. Bill and Chelsea and I are so grateful to the bottom of our hearts for your generosity and your kindness, and I hope that we have helped to draw attention to the concerns of Puerto Rico and we have also helped to spotlight the beauty and the spirit of this wonderful place.
 I am grateful for this show of overwhelming support. I came to Puerto Rico to listen to your voices because your voices deserve to be heard. And I hear you, and I see you, and I will always stand up for you.
 I also want to recognize Senator Obama and his supporters. Our two campaigns have turned out record numbers of new voters, determined to chart a new course for America. Now, this primary election has been hard fought because there is so much at stake and we must elect a Democratic president. 
 I am I am overwhelmed by this vote today and I cannot complete this journey without your help. We have two contests left in South Dakota and Montana, and you can make the difference by visiting hillaryclinton.com and helping us make sure we go strong. Every contribution will help us make our case to the voters who are going to be heading to the polls.
 And I want you to know that this election is really about your future. You voted even though some tried to tell you that your votes wouldn't count. You voted for the person you believe will be the stronger nominee and the strongest president. And you are not alone. You are joining millions of people across the United States, more than 17.6 million, plus the votes that we've received today. People who don't always make the headlines; who don't always feel like your voices are being heard.
 I think about these people all the time, because that's who I care most about. The nurse on her second shift who still can't pay her credit card bills; the worker who can't afford the gas on the way to work, the waitress on her feet without health care. The small business owners saddled with rising energy bills; the college student who can't afford to continue college; the farmer, the teacher, the trucker, the soldier, the veteran. The people yearning for a president who will rebuild the economy and a Commander-in-Chief who will restore our leadership and moral authority in the world.
 I know that people face tough times. But what I've been impressed by is the resourcefulness and resilience that the people here and across the United States use to face whatever challenges they confront, because they believe they can keep working for a better tomorrow. The American Dream may bend under the weight of challenges we failed to meet and presidents who have failed to lead. It may bend, but it will never break, because that's what keeps so many of us going; the thought of a better life tomorrow and a better future for our children.
 I believe that the people of the United States need a champion in the White House, someone who will be a president in their corner and on their side. I believe you are voting because you want a president who will stand up for universal health care. Who will stand up for action to address the housing crisis, who will stand up for better jobs to protect Social Security. You want to cut through the speeches and the sound-bites to real solutions.
 And so today you've come out strong. You have defied the skeptics. More people across the country have voted for our campaign, more people have voted for us than for any candidate in the history of presidential primaries.
 We are winning the popular vote. Now, there can be no doubt, the people have spoken and you have chosen your candidate. And it's important where we have won. We are winning these votes in swing states and among the very swing voters that Democrats must win to take back the White House and put this country back on the path to prosperity. Together, we've won the battleground states of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Arkansas, West Virginia, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Nevada, and, yes, Michigan and Florida.
 And I hope by my second term, regardless of what the people of Puerto Rico decide about the status option you prefer, you too will be able to vote for the next president of the United States.
 So, when the voting concludes on Tuesday, neither Senator Obama nor I will have the number of delegates to be the nominee. I will lead the popular vote. He will maintain a slight lead in the delegate count. The decision will fall on the shoulders of those leaders in our party empowered by the rules to vote at the Democratic Convention.
 I do not envy the decision you must make, but a decision has to be made, and in the final assessment, I ask you to consider these questions: Which candidate best represents the will of the people who voted in this historic primary? Which candidate is best able to lead to us victory in November? And which candidate is best able to lead our nation as our president in the face of unprecedented challenges at home and abroad?
 I am in this race because I believe I am that candidate, and I will be that president. We are winning the popular vote because we have stood for the core principle of our party, a party that believes in universal health care - no one left out. A party that believes hard working, middle-class families deserve a fair shot at the American Dream, a party that believes we must bring our troops home from Iraq safely, responsibly, and honorably. A party that cherishes every child, values every family, and counts every single vote.
 We are winning against John McCain and beating him in the key states. We have what it takes to get the 270 electoral votes necessary to win the White House. And the majority of voters know who is ready on Day One to serve as our president. A president who will bring strength, knowledge, and experience to the White House to solve our toughest problems. A president who knows firsthand the challenges of the job, as well as its power to make a positive difference in people's lives.
 That's why I'm in this race. Ultimately it's not about Senator Obama or me. It's about you your hopes, your interests, your futures. It's about the direction we choose as a nation. With two wars abroad and an economic crisis at home, we have to get this right. Our country cannot afford four more years of more of the same.
 So, today Puerto Ricans across this beautiful place that I have come to enjoy so much made your voices heard and your votes counted, and for that, I want to thank my co-chairs, Senate President Kenneth McClintock and Puerto Rico Democratic Chair Roberto Prats, political directors Rafi Rodriguez Aguayo and Representative Jorge Colberg, Elections Representatives, Representative ''Junior'' Gonzalez and Rene Estades. Jose Hernandez Mayoral, Former Governor Carlos Romero, Miguel Lausell, Virgilio Ramos, and Luisette Cabanas. And special thank you to coordinator Ramon Luis Lugo, deputy coordinator Francisco Domenech, and advisor Jeffrey Farrow.
 And I want to thank all of my volunteers, my staff, my supporters; everyone who waved at us as we caravanned all day yesterday. And I want to reiterate what I have said across Puerto Rico, together, in my first term, we will finally enable the status question to be resolved, based on the principles that government should be representative at all levels, and the people of Puerto Rico deserve the opportunity to choose from among all of theoptions.
 Together we will work to ensure that Puerto Rico is treated equally when it comes to Medicare and Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program, tax breaks for creating jobs, and more. I will be your champion. And I want to thank all of my friends in our labor unions, all of them who have done so much for us. It has been a joy to work with every single union that has been here supporting me. We would not be here without you tonight. And I want to say a special word of thanks to the Hispanic community, not just in Puerto Rico, but across the United States. I am so honored you have stood by me throughout this campaign. I am grateful for your love, your friendship, and your support.
 What we have seen in this campaign and what we have always known is that Hispanic Americans, Latinos from every part of Latin America, care deeply about the future of the United States. You contribute so much to the greatness of this country, to business and academia, to labor, to the professions, to entertainment, to sports, to every part of society. And you have also contributed greatly to expanding the horizons and the diversity of our country. I am so grateful to you, and I am so proud of the support you have given me.
 I also wish to thank my family for their incredible love and support, Bill and Chelsea, my mother, my brothers, Hugh and Tony, my sister-in-laws, Maria and Megan, and all who are helping here in Puerto Rico and South Dakota and Montana. Because we are in this to choose a candidate who we know will not only stand up for us but unite us. We will be strengthened by the enthusiasm of the millions of people who have voted and volunteered in all of these contests. We are propelled by this unique moment in history.
 The campaign has been an extraordinary journey, and I am grateful for every day of it; every single day something happens which reinforces my commitment and lifts my spirits. It might be a young child who is introduced and says, ''I want to grow up to be president.'' It might be a young mother who says, ''I have no health insurance. I hope you will help me.'' It might be an older man, who says, ''I am a veteran, but I cannot get the help I deserve.''
 Every story like that reinforces my commitment to what we are doing together. People deserve better from their government. The people of Puerto Rico deserve better from the federal government. So, I call on you to travel this final stretch with me, to join me as we take America back and lead our country with confidence and optimism into this new century.
 Let's keep fighting for our dream. Let's keep fighting for what we believe. Let's keep fighting for one another. Let's keep fighting for America. America is worth fighting for. Thank you, and God bless you and God bless America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) PUERTO RICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



35 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2816 words

HEADLINE: Disney and Pixar: The Power of the Prenup

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: Los Angeles 

 BODY:
 IN April, the Walt Disney Company summoned movie theater executives for a rare audience before its reigning king of animation, John Lasseter. A co-founder of Pixar and director of ''Toy Story,'' Mr. Lasseter was unveiling the roster of films that an aligned Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios planned to release over the next four years.
 Walking onstage wearing one of his trademark Hawaiian shirts -- this one with yellow and green palm trees -- Mr. Lasseter was greeted by giggles and pointing from a smattering of audience members. 
 ''What did you think I'd wear?'' he asked amid the titters. A business suit and a pair of mouse ears, most likely. 
 When Disney bought its rival, Pixar, in 2006 for $7.4 billion, many people assumed the deal would play out like most big media takeovers: abysmally. The worries were twofold: that either Disney would trample Pixar's esprit de corps (turning Mr. Lasseter into a drone, chanting ''Hi Ho'' en route to Mickey's animation mines) or that Pixar animators would act like spoiled brats and rebuke their new owner.
 Both companies had a history of acrimony, and Robert A. Iger, the new chief executive of Disney, was a mystery. Could he manage the megawatt personalities Pixar would bring into Disney's fold? Some analysts, investors and media pundits also questioned the hefty price Disney paid for a small studio that released only one movie a year.
 But two years into the integration of Pixar -- and as the company rolls out ''Wall-E,'' a risky love story about robots that is estimated to cost at least $180 million -- the merger is notable for how well it's faring. Indeed, in an industry where corporate marriages often create internal warfare (Paramount and DreamWorks SKG are the most prominent example) Disney and Pixar have found a way to make it work.
 ''Most acquisitions, particularly in media, are value-destroying as opposed to value-creating, and that certainly has not turned out to be the case here,'' said David A. Price, author of a newly published book from Knopf, ''The Pixar Touch: The Making of a Company.''
 The smooth ride -- so far, at least -- also seems to be pleasing Wall Street, where grumbling about Pixar's price tag has died down. Disney's stock has climbed 28 percent since its 52-week low on Jan. 22, in large part because of investor confidence that the company can overcome a difficult economy by leveraging Pixar's computer-generated characters across its vast empire. In recent months, Disney's shares have significantly outperformed those of most of its competitors.
 ''Cars'' tells the story. The film was regarded by some critics as one of Pixar's weaker storytelling efforts, and it generated soft foreign sales when compared with hits like ''Finding Nemo.'' But ''Cars'' has pumped billions in profit into Disney via a wide range of ancillary businesses.
 The film racked up over $460 million in global ticket sales and has sold 27 million DVDs. Related retail products have generated $5 billion in sales. A ''Cars'' virtual world is opening on the Internet, a ''Cars'' ice-skating show will begin touring the nation in September, and work is under way to bring an entire ''Cars'' experience to the Disneyland Resort in California.
 ''You can accomplish a lot more as one company than you can as part of a joint venture,'' Mr. Iger said in an interview. ''It makes a big difference when everyone is working for the same set of shareholders.'' 
 IN a subtle but important shift, Pixar has matured, allowing its strategic thinking to evolve inside a sprawling corporation. For instance, some of the studio's executives once resisted sequels and direct-to-DVD efforts, arguing that quality and the brand could suffer. While sequels were not out of the question, they said Pixar's hot streak hinged on pushing boundaries with original material. 
 But at Mr. Lasseter's presentation in April, Disney's first such event in 10 years, he announced ''Cars 2,'' a 2012 sequel that will take Lightning McQueen and his pals on a tour of foreign countries. Also in the works are four direct-to-DVD movies built around Tinker Bell. 
 ''We are definitely planning on doing more sequels, just as we are more originals,'' Mr. Lasseter said in an interview. ''We talk with Bob Iger about which ones make sense to do from a business perspective. But each movie has to be absolutely great or you will snuff out a franchise.''
 And the Pixar team, which also has oversight of Walt Disney Animation Studios and the DVD-focused DisneyToon Studios, decided that it was O.K. to outsource some direct-to-DVD animation to an Indian company, a departure from its rigid stance that outside animators could not deliver the necessary quality. (Mr. Lasseter will still closely monitor the efforts, however.)
 For the first time, Pixar is also scheduled to deliver two movies in a single year: ''Newt,'' the story of a salamander's search for love, and ''The Bear and the Bow,'' an action-adventure starring an imperious Scottish princess; both films will arrive in multiplexes in 2011.
 How Disney and Pixar are making the integration work holds lessons for other executives faced with the delicate task of uniting two cultures. Tactics that have served the companies well include the obvious, like effectively communicating changes to employees. Other decisions, including drawing up an explicit map of what elements of Pixar would not change, have been more unusual. 
 ''None of this has been easy,'' said Richard Cook, chairman of Walt Disney Studios, ''but it helps when everyone has tremendous respect both professionally and personally for one another.''
 Mutual respect was scarce at the two companies just three years ago.
 Pixar, based in Emeryville, Calif., and Disney, with its headquarters in Burbank, Calif., had a notoriously strained relationship. Pixar's chairman and chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, abruptly called off talks to continue a lucrative partnership with Disney, which had helped to finance and distributed such Pixar films as ''Monsters, Inc.''
 Mr. Jobs, also the chief executive of Apple, had bitterly clashed with Michael D. Eisner, who was then running Disney. The rift encompassed many issues, not the least of which was basic trust. In one incident, Mr. Eisner disparaged an Apple advertising slogan before a Congressional committee and then claimed that he hadn't -- even though his testimony had been transcribed.
 The end result was that Mr. Jobs and others at Pixar didn't place much faith in what their Disney counterparts told them. 
 After Mr. Iger took the reins at Disney, he restarted acquisition talks and won some early support at Pixar by talking candidly and clearly about the lessons he learned when his previous employer, the ABC television network, endured two takeovers. Pixar executives recall Mr. Iger joking that if he ever decided to write a book, it would be titled ''I've Been Bought,'' because the two merger experiences were so formative for him.
 Edwin Catmull, the president of Pixar who was also put in charge of Walt Disney Animation Studios, said, ''It became very clear to us that Bob Iger had been through mergers before, both positive and negative.'' 
 Mr. Iger also agreed to an explicit list of guidelines for protecting Pixar's creative culture. For instance, Pixar employees were able to keep their relatively plentiful health benefits and weren't forced to sign employment contracts. Mr. Iger even stipulated that the sign on Pixar's front gate would remain unchanged.
 Still, Mr. Catmull concedes that trust didn't come easily, especially in an age when some companies promise one thing before a merger and then seem to do another once the deal is done. 
 ''It took about a year before there was a collective letting down the guard,'' he said. ''Initially people were thinking, 'Is something going to happen?' '' 
 Regarding Disney's list of promises, Mr. Catmull said: ''We've never had to go back and look at it. Everything they've said they would do they have lived up to.''
 Mr. Jobs, who became Disney's largest shareholder and a board member as a result of the transaction, did not respond to interview requests.
 In most acquisitions, the conqueror typically reigns supreme. When NBC bought Universal Studios, executives at the movie studio in Los Angeles were -- overnight -- required to start commuting to New York for grueling financial planning meetings at the behest of NBC's owner, General Electric. 
 Employees were also startled to wake up on the morning after the acquisition announcement to find that their e-mail addresses had already been altered to ''nbcuni.''
 An NBC Universal spokeswoman declined to comment. Although analysts generally think that Universal Pictures has been well served by the G.E. takeover, they cited the company's aggressive handling of the merger as one reason the studio's respected chairwoman, Stacey Snider, quit the company.
 But in the Pixar acquisition, Disney, despite its legendary corporate identity and strong will, held back. Pixar kept its e-mail system. Nobody was shipped to Walt Disney World in Florida to work a shift, part of the initiation that other executives must endure. No switchboard operators at Pixar were asked to end telephone calls with the words ''Have a magical day,'' as they do elsewhere in the company. 
 And, of course, Mr. Lasseter continued to wear whatever he wanted, Hawaiian shirts and all.
 In fact, a deep Disney ''introduction and visit'' didn't come until this spring, when a random selection of 200 of Pixar's 800 employees spent the day in Burbank touring the live-action studio and consumer products division. 
 ''There is an assumption in the corporate world that you need to integrate swiftly,'' Mr. Iger said. ''My philosophy is exactly the opposite. You need to be respectful and patient.''
 Key to the successful integration, analysts say, has been Mr. Iger's decision to give incoming talent added duties. Instead of just buying Pixar and moving on, Mr. Iger understood what made the acquisition valuable, said Mr. Price, the author. ''If you are acquiring expertise,'' he said, ''then dispatch your newly purchased experts into other parts of the company and let them stretch their muscles.'' 
 In Disney's case, Pixar was assigned the difficult task of turning around a storied animation department that had fallen into disrepair as it struggled to find its footing in a new world of computer-generated pictures. At a low point, the 2002 film ''Treasure Planet'' flopped so badly that Disney was forced to take a $98 million write-down.
 A window into how the rebuilding effort is going will come on Nov. 26, with the release of ''Bolt,'' the tale of a Hollywood dog star who becomes lost in New York and has to make his way back to California. Mr. Lasseter and his team have heavily reworked the project, including playing up a wickedly funny side character, a hamster.
 Although some bloodletting has been involved in Pixar's efforts to rebuild the studio -- the original director of ''Bolt'' was replaced, resulting in some hurt feelings -- Mr. Lasseter said he was pleased with the way the transformation was progressing. ''We were very nervous coming in, but to see the change has been amazing,'' he said. ''Disney has become a filmmaker-led studio and not an executive-led studio. We are very proud of that.''
 The relationship could still sour, of course, and big tests loom.
 Still very much a work in progress is the turnaround of Walt Disney Animation Studios, where it has taken Mr. Catmull and Mr. Lasseter longer than investors anticipated to sort through the pipeline of existing projects and begin green-lighting new ones.
 Disney's plans for hand-drawn animation are unclear, with only one project currently announced: ''The Princess and the Frog,'' a musical set in New Orleans that is scheduled to have its premiere in December 2009. A Disney spokeswoman said animators were deeply immersed in marrying older hand-drawn techniques with new technology for future movies, adding that plans for a new headquarters for Disney's Burbank animators were slowly progressing.
 PIXAR'S list of coming movies includes some with unusual concepts that might not lend themselves to the kind of merchandising tie-ins that have made ''Cars'' a juggernaut. ''Up,'' the next big Pixar film after ''Wall-E,'' is a comedy about a cranky, cane-wielding 78-year-old who transports his home to exotic locales by attaching hundreds of helium-filled balloons.
 With the exception of ''Up,'' which is being directed by Pete Docter (''Monsters, Inc.''), Pixar is placing some of its biggest new projects in relatively untested hands. Brenda Chapman, the director of Pixar's first fairy tale, ''The Bear and the Bow,'' served as a story supervisor on modern classics like ''The Lion King'' but has only one previous directing job under her belt, for ''The Prince of Egypt.'' 
 Of course, Mr. Lasseter will be helping to guide the way, but he must cope with extreme demands for his time. Aside from overseeing an ambitious slate of movies, Mr. Lasseter, who now shuttles between Burbank, near Los Angeles, and Emeryville, outside San Francisco, is involved in everything from approving special effects for the coming ''Cars'' ice tour to helping design theme-park attractions.
 He also has new corporate responsibilities, from schmoozing with important investors to helping to push Disney's efforts with high-definition Blu-ray DVDs. All of this juggling, some people say, has made him somewhat inaccessible. One Pixar insider, who requested anonymity because he was not authorized by the company to speak, joked that scheduling a meeting with Mr. Lasseter has become harder than ''lining up a chat with the pope.''
 Mr. Lasseter, speaking by cellphone during a commute home, said: ''The toughest part of my job is probably just managing my schedule. But I think everything is going pretty well.'' He added that there have been times in the past -- such as when he was directing ''Cars'' -- that his walk -- around time at Pixar was limited. ''It ebbs and flows,'' he said.
 FOR now, attention is focused on ''Wall-E.'' Directed and written by Andrew Stanton, the creative force behind ''Finding Nemo,'' the picture tells the story of a cuddly trash-compacting robot who lives on an abandoned, heavily polluted Earth 700 years in the future. His sidekick is a perky cockroach named Hal.
 ''Wall-E,'' which features long sequences without dialogue, is under extra pressure to perform at the box office because of soft initial receipts for a recent Disney film, ''The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian.'' Adding to the weight are Pixar's last three films; though all were blockbusters, they have gradually trended downward at the domestic box office. A reversal would quiet critics who say the studio's best days are behind it. (Disney notes that an increase in foreign box office sales has offset the slide.)
 As with ''Cars,'' Disney is counting on ''Wall-E,'' set for release on June 27, to take off with a tough crowd: little boys. It has prepared a collection of 300 robot-themed consumer products that will arrive on store shelves over the next month. 
 ''There are some great toys, and we are working on a variety of potential applications for our parks,'' said Mr. Iger in a conference call with analysts on May 6. ''So we are poised to take advantage of broad and deep success when it comes.''
 (He added that he has particularly high hopes for a ''Wall-E'' remote-controlled robot. ''Having played with it, I think it's going to be a hot seller for Christmas,'' he said.)
 Wall Street, which closely monitors major animated movies because of their huge cost, is not yet sold on the robot, which was been criticized by some as looking too much like the star of the corny 1986 film ''Short Circuit.'' 
 ''I can see how it could work and be huge and I can see how it could not,'' said Richard Greenfield, an analyst at Pali Research.
 By contrast, the competing DreamWorks Animation has received applause for its coming ''Kung Fu Panda,'' featuring the vocal talents of Jack Black and Angelina Jolie. Ingrid Chung, a media analyst at Goldman Sachs, said recently that she found the film's concept and execution ''strong enough to create a franchise.'' When it came to Pixar, Ms. Chung declined to comment.
 Detractors might recall that Road Runner and Wile E. Coyote, two of the most beloved cartoon characters of all time, never uttered a word to each other. And movie theater executives, typically tough to please, reacted with robust laughter and applause during a 30-minute peek at ''Wall-E'' in April.
 ''It's some of the best work I've ever seen,'' said Mr. Catmull, standing in the aisle of the theater afterward as confetti sprinkled from the ceiling. ''I am confident it will be the next success story for Disney and Pixar.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pixar, co-founded by Steve Jobs, left, and Disney, run by Robert A. Iger, have a Hollywood marriage that works. Starring in their newest animated film is a robot named Wall-E. (PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU1)
John Lasseter, a Pixar co-founder, said, ''Disney has become a filmmaker-led studio and not an executive-led studio.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLEY GALLAY/GETTY IMAGES)
 Princess Tiana in ''The Princess and the Frog,'' an animated musical to be released next year by Disney. Pixar is trying to revive Disney's animation and make it more contemporary.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DISNEY ENTERPRISES)(pg. BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (93%); FILM (90%); ANIMATED FILMS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WRITERS (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (73%); MERGERS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (95%); PIXAR ANIMATION STUDIOS INC (92%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (84%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (95%); DWA (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (95%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (95%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (95%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (92%)

PERSON: JOHN LASSETER (91%); STEVEN JOBS (58%); ROBERT A IGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



36 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE CHATTER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 191 words

 BODY:
''I personally apologize.'' James E. Cayne, chairman of Bear Stearns, during a meeting with employees, investors and directors on Thursday, the day shareholders of the battered firm approved its merger with JPMorgan Chase. His words, and others like them, were met with dead silence. 
 ''We were shocked.'' Michelle Finholdt, on a ruling in December by the Minnesota Supreme Court that her nonprofit day care agency had to pay property taxes because, in essence, it gave nothing away. The decision has sent tremors through the nonprofit world.
 ''Exxon Mobil needs to reconnect with the forward-looking and entrepreneurial vision of my greatgrandfather.'' Neva Rockefeller Goodwin, an economist and greatgranddaughter of John D. Rockefeller. Some members of the Rockefeller family are asking Exxon Mobil to look for alternatives to spewing greenhouse gases into the air.
 ''You can buy a lot more with your money today than before.'' Joanna Eliza, a recent graduate from the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York, on clothing prices. Clothing is one of the few items in the Consumer Price Index for which overall prices have declined since 1998.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); FASHION & APPAREL (65%); PRICE CHANGES (65%); GREENHOUSE GASES (52%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA SUPREME COURT (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (78%); JIMMY CAYNE (73%); JAMES E CAYNE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



37 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Crane Collapses Prompt Questions About the Mayor's Oversight

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
It has become the signature image of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's transformation of the economically fragile city he inherited in 2002: the towers that punch skyward throughout New York, gleaming testaments to the billionaire businessman's management of an unwieldy urban bureaucracy.
 Throughout his tenure, Mr. Bloomberg has taken particular pride in the construction boom, promoting it as the product of his pragmatic approach and the application of high-tech, yet common-sense solutions to the problems of government. 
 But the deadly crane collapse that killed two people and injured another on the Upper East Side on Friday morning is now threatening to tarnish that legacy. It was the latest in a series of construction-related accidents -- including a crane collapse in March that killed seven people -- that have left New Yorkers uneasy, with a growing concern that Mr. Bloomberg may have let high-rise construction proliferate without adequate oversight. 
 Indeed, despite the administration's recent efforts to improve construction safety, including replacing the commissioner of the Department of Buildings, there are signs that residents -- even those who have generally viewed him favorably in the past -- are running out of patience with Mr. Bloomberg. 
 Leonard LaRusso, a resident of the East 91st Street building that was hit by the falling crane, was blunt. ''I'm not going anywhere until I see the mayor,'' he said. ''This is his fault.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg has struggled to rebuild confidence in his administration after a troubling spike in the number of fatal construction accidents this year, and he was less than welcoming on Friday to Gov. David A. Paterson's promise of a state investigation. 
 Increasing that pressure, Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a Democrat whose district includes the site of Friday's accident, said she would ask the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration to inspect major construction sites, adding that she was ''appalled that the city's inspection procedures are so lax that we could have another massive crane collapse.''
 Mr. Bloomberg responded angrily during a news conference to the suggestion that the Department of Buildings had failed to ensure public safety. 
 ''I don't think there's anything wrong with the D.O.B. -- D.O.B. didn't crash; it was the crane that collapsed,'' Mr. Bloomberg told reporters. ''Keep in mind that construction is a dangerous business and you will always have fatalities.'' 
 And given the surge in construction across the city, experts say, some deaths may be all but inevitable. Leading a staunchly pro-development administration, Mr. Bloomberg has rezoned vast swaths of the city to accommodate bigger, more densely populated buildings, encouraging the construction of millions of square feet of office space, hotel rooms and housing. 
 Since 2002, the administration has issued permits for 159,370 apartments and homes. Over all, the number of construction permits for new buildings or major renovations issued by the Department of Buildings has soared 23.3 percent over the past five years, rising to 86,915 in 2007 from 70,515 in 2002. 
 The total number of construction deaths this year is now 15, posing a seemingly intractable problem for Mr. Bloomberg. The mayor shifted the mission of the Department of Buildings to focus more on safety after the deaths of two firefighters in the blaze at the former Deutsche Bank building near ground zero. Building inspectors had missed several violations before the fire, and they failed to detect the dismantling of a standpipe that would have carried water to firefighters. 
 Under its former commissioner, Patricia J. Lancaster, the department began devising new regulations and protocols, but the efforts did not move quickly enough; after the March 15 crane collapse, which incensed the mayor, Ms. Lancaster resigned under pressure from City Hall. 
 The city ordered broad changes to the way it inspects and regulates tower cranes, saying that a city inspector would have to be present each time a crane was erected, lengthened or dismantled. (The crane that fell on Friday was not undergoing any such process.) But on Wednesday, two days before the East 91st Street accident, officials pulled back, switching to a system of spot checks and ''safety meetings'' in which workers would be briefed on proper procedures. 
 ''The mayor is giving the Buildings Department more resources, and we are in the midst of making it into a more robust and proactive public safety agency,'' Edward Skyler, the deputy mayor overseeing the agency, said in an interview on Friday.
 In recent weeks, the city has moved to hire 56 new inspectors and has started a $4 million high-risk construction study. ''No one is less patient for results than us,'' Mr. Skyler added, ''but some things we can do overnight and others need time for their impact to be felt.''
 Mr. Bloomberg expressed his frustration over the accidents at a meeting, just over a week ago, at Gracie Mansion with representatives of the construction industry, who complained about the many stop-work orders the city had imposed after accidents. The mayor told them that the episodes were intolerable.
 James F. Brennan, a Democratic assemblyman from Brooklyn who is a staunch critic of the Department of Buildings, said that Bloomberg officials were working to fix a system whose deeply ingrained troubles long predated the current administration, and that they understood ''the necessity of being proactive, finally.'' But, he added, he was unsure that they had ''thought through what their problem really is,'' saying that he had not yet seen ''anything from the leadership that says, 'We've got to look at the overall management structure and see whether we have adequate focus to solve problems.' ''
 The deaths threaten the long-held view of Mr. Bloomberg, a self-made billionaire, as a talented manager, political observers said. And his high-profile ousting of Ms. Lancaster has made him even more directly accountable. 
 ''It certainly hurts his reputation as a great manager and this idea that you need a nonpartisan businessman to manage the city because he really knows how to manage agencies, and it takes the politics out of decisions,'' said George Arzt, a political consultant who was press secretary to Mayor Edward I. Koch. ''It certainly hurts that, but he will still be remembered as a great mayor.''
 Mr. Bloomberg's accomplishments during his time in office include devising the popular 311 information and services phone line, gaining control of the school system, helping push down smoking rates and smoothing racial tensions.
 David S. Birdsell, dean of the Baruch School of Public Affairs, agreed that this latest construction accident had punctured ''the image of glossy perfection in Bloomberg's management,'' but cautioned that it also served as a reminder that no one could ''manage to a point that crises don't occur.''
 ''Clearly it is his basic job to keep us safe,'' he said. ''Bloomberg faces a lot of really unlovely choices even for a mayor who can see the last days on his calendar. If he shuts down all activity until cranes are proven safe, he's going to shut down billions of dollars of economic activity in New York, and he can't do that, and nobody would want him to. He plainly has to get to the bottom of whatever it is that's causing this.''
 Mr. Bloomberg appeared to acknowledge the tension between the vibrant economy that has brought him surplus after surplus, allowing him to expand popular programs while banking money for future expenses, and his role as protector-in-chief.
 ''Nobody wants this economy to grow more than me,'' he said testily on Friday. ''But we're not going to kill people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers on Saturday were dismantling the tower section of a crane that collapsed on Friday, killing two people and injuring another. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A31)
 A temporary street-closure sign at West End Avenue and West 92nd Street offered a spray-painted footnote on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (88%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (67%); OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); ZONING (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); CAROLYN MALONEY (57%); DAVID PATERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008



38 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Chronicle: Wine

BYLINE: By BRYAN MILLER. 
Bryan Miller, a food and wine writer and cookbook author, is a former restaurant critic for The Times.

 BODY:
THE BILLIONAIRE'S VINEGAR The Mystery of the World's Most Expensive Bottle of Wine. By Benjamin Wallace. 319 pp. Crown. $24.95.
 Thomas Jefferson was America's first famous wine geek. The founding father had a lifelong infatuation with Bordeaux and regularly ordered shipments for his Virginia estate, Monticello. While living in Paris after the American Revolution, he took every opportunity to tour the major wine regions of France, to educate his palate and study viticulture. In his eight years in the White House, the connoisseur in chief, by then a respected international wine scholar, stockpiled some 20,000 bottles; in his first term alone, the wine tab has been estimated at more than $7,500 -- and this at a time when entertainment expenses came out of the chief executive's salary of $25,000.
Jefferson was a fastidious record keeper. Entries from 1788, toward the end of his official posting in Paris, reveal that he ordered 125 bottles of Chateau Haut-Brion for Monticello, along with a batch of provisions that included some unidentified wines. The shipments never arrived. Or did they? In 1985, a bottle engraved with the initials ''Th. J.'' found its way to Christie's auction house in London. Although not unassailably authenticated, it went on the block anyway, fetching a price of $156,000. 
 In his captivating book, ''The Billionaire's Vinegar,'' Benjamin Wallace follows the twisting trail pitting those who maintain that the bottle -- and others from the same lot -- is the real thing against those intent on uncovering a scam. In the process, he explores the world of wine counterfeiters, who are ever more skilled thanks to modern technology. But the good guys have some tools too, like thermoluminescence and scintillators, which allow scientists to detect trace elements of radiation in wine sediment, thus establishing its true age.
 Wallace frames his narrative as a suspenseful mystery, although we pretty well know whodunit early on. He escorts readers through the fast and fulsome world of high-stakes wine collecting, where $1,000 bottles of grand cru Burgundy are guzzled like lemonade and conversations revolve around trophy wines in home cellars that can be the size of a high school gymnasium. At the same time, Wallace explores the contradictions in the lives of rich, presumably savvy businessmen (there isn't a single female collector in the book) who squander hundreds and thousands of dollars on old wines that may be unpalatable -- or, worse, counterfeit. 
 Even before the auction, rumors abounded that the Jefferson bottle was a phony and that the miscreant responsible was a dodgy character named Hardy Rodenstock, a onetime pop band manager and high-stakes wine collector. For decades, Rodenstock had displayed uncanny luck in ''discovering'' rare and coveted wines, some under questionable circumstances. Even as evidence mounted that his gold mine was little more than gravel -- in his former home, investigators found blank wine labels, old corks and empty bottles -- he refused to disclose precisely where he'd made his discovery. Although William I. Koch, the heir to an oil fortune and the owner of several ''Jefferson'' bottles, has sued Rodenstock, he has ignored the court orders and stayed in Europe. As for the remaining bottles, most rest in those private cellars, priceless conversation pieces.
 REFLECTIONS OF A WINE MERCHANT By Neal I. Rosenthal. Illustrated. 257 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $24.
 For more than 30 years, Neal I. Rosenthal, a New York-based wine importer, has been an avid, at times argumentative, advocate of traditionally made wines -- those created by family-run, small-scale artisans who reject the type of technical legerdemain that allows modern winemakers to produce flabby, fruit-drenched products for mass-market appeal. In other words, McPinots. ''The best of wines always proudly tell you from where they come,'' he maintains in ''Reflections of a Wine Merchant,'' adding, ''I would also argue that some of the greatest of wines have fallen into the trough of standard swill, attractively packaged, manufactured to impress, but lacking the individuality and intelligence that were part of their respective patrimony.'' Scotch and water anyone?
 While it's true that this global wave has been gaining strength for more than a decade, it might be overstatement to call it tidal. Rosenthal, who is certainly unhampered by humility -- he boasts that he can recall ''almost every wine that has passed my lips'' -- has resisted composing a 250-page jeremiad on industry trends. Instead, his book is a warm, personal, eloquent celebration of the people and places where tradition still survives. 
 The perception of a traveling wine buyer as a gentleman in a fine blazer, notepad in pocket, enjoying a semi-vacation of congenial sipping, is punctured by the reality of fast-paced barrel tastings (often starting right after breakfast) in cold, dank cellars. And, unlike many wine-professional journals, Rosenthal's book is mercifully uncluttered with industry argot.
 One of the more revealing sections recounts how, in the late 1970s, a monumental change in the industry was prompted by macroeconomics. At the time, spiraling inflation sparked striking rises in interest rates, placing a cash-flow squeeze on wineries. To alleviate the crunch, the spigot was opened and wines were put on the market that, in better times, would have remained in-house for further aging. This in turn led to the creation of simpler wines that could be consumed earlier. The trend spread to some of the more prestigious regions of France and Italy -- and continues today.
 THE BATTLE FOR WINE AND LOVE Or, How I Saved the World From Parkerization. By Alice Feiring. 271 pp. Harcourt. $23.
 About 10 years ago, in an article about wine criticism in America, I referred to Robert M. Parker Jr. as the Alan Greenspan of the grapevine set. Rarely has one individual exerted so much power in a particular industry. Today, winemakers from Napa to New Zealand study Parker's palate and create products aimed at making the great man smile. Not surprisingly, he's a controversial figure. In ''The Battle for Wine and Love: Or, How I Saved the World from Parkerization,'' the journalist Alice Feiring rants about everything she finds distasteful in the wine industry -- above all Parker, whom she seems to hold responsible for just about everything short of glacial melting.
 To be sure, she addresses many vital issues: the dumbing down of wine for mass-market tastes, overreliance on science in winemaking, the demise of small-scale traditional winemakers and more. It's just that Feiring's sometimes dogmatic and self-congratulatory tone can get a little tiresome. There's also a fair amount of insider jargon, so you might want to brush up in advance. Yet Feiring can be both lively and sardonic, especially when she's portraying the many characters encountered on her mad dashes around Europe. ''It was Sunday,'' she writes of a meeting with a top Champagne winemaker. ''Epernay was gray and still. In direct contrast was the jovial, hyper, bearded, unkempt, silver-haired and blue-eyed Pascal in his leprechaun-green jacket (which, he said, was the color of his winery).''
 ''The Battle for Wine and Love'' is loosely organized,but that's not a fault. Reading it is like taking a road trip with a smart-alecky friend who can't stop talking about the wines you're going to taste with dinner. And, refreshingly, this is one of the few books in this genre that focus on telling readers what not to drink. Toward the end, when Feiring finally decides to confront her archenemy, I couldn't wait for the sparks to fly. Disappointingly, the encounter amounts to two brief, occasionally testy, telephone conversations, mostly of a technical nature. If there was a zinger, it came when Feiring asked Parker if the wine world had room for other critical opinions. ''You know, I should be insulted,'' he replied. Do I hear ice melting? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM FOWLKS, MARY FAGOT AND BRIAN REA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WINE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HORTICULTURE (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (70%); COUNTERFEITING (68%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) VIRGINIA, USA (91%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Billionaire's Vinegar, The (Book); Reflections of a Wine Merchant (Book); Battle for Wine and Love, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



39 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Military Extends Control in Northern City

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSUL, Iraq -- The recent successes in quieting violence in Basra and Sadr City appear to be stretching to the long-rebellious Sunni Arab district here in Mosul, raising hopes that the Iraqi Army may soon have tenuous control over all three of Iraq's major cities.
In this city, never subdued by the increase of American troops in Iraq last year, weekly figures on attacks are down by half since May 10, when the Iraqi military began intensified operations here with the backing of the American military. Iraqi soldiers searching house to house, within American tank cordons, have arrested more than 1,000 people suspected of insurgent activity.
The Iraqi soldiers ''are heady from the Basra experience,'' Brig. Gen. Raymond A. Thomas III, the commander of American forces in Mosul, said in an interview. ''They have learned the right lessons.'' 
The crucial lesson, in fact, over the past month appears to be that all sides -- the Iraqi military as well as various insurgent groups -- prefer, at the moment, not to fight. Rather, as in Basra and Sadr City, the huge Shiite enclave in Baghdad, the Iraqi military appears to have allowed many insurgents to slip out of Mosul, after scores of negotiations with militias and their leaders.
This approach could make any gains temporary: The insurgents, here as elsewhere, are alive to fight another day. And little progress has been made on political reconciliation among rival sects and ethnic groups that could help reduce violence in the long term.
But the negotiations have allowed the military to expand both its area of control and the government's zone of sovereignty, burnishing the once-poor reputations of the Iraqi military and Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. While the American military was never far away -- it offered air support and additional firepower -- the operation here was largely led by Iraqis.
And that paid dividends here in Mosul. More than two dozen insurgent leaders who might not have surrendered to the Americans turned themselves in to the Iraqi generals.
Out in the dusty streets, for example, Gen. Nooraldeen Hussein, the commander of the Iraqi Eighth Brigade, hunted one insurgent leader until the day he sat down and had tea with the man. The insurgent, whom General Hussein identified as Muhammad Saffo, living in the Rashadia neighborhood, was suspected of killing five Iraqi soldiers with a roadside bomb.
At a meeting with his American advisers two weeks ago, the general said he arrested 14 members of Mr. Saffo's tribe and killed three others before Mr. Saffo came forward to negotiate along with six other tribal members.
''I have all his numbers right here,'' General Hussein said, tapping his cellphone. He would call, he said, and negotiate the amnesty in the presence of a tribal sheik.
The American advisers glanced at one another, not quite sure what to make of this new twist to the American effort to tamp down the Sunni insurgents in the city.
''If the Iraqis are comfortable, we are comfortable, too,'' General Thomas said of the negotiated surrenders of insurgent leaders sometimes described as members of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, the homegrown Sunni insurgent group that American officials say is led by foreigners.
As the decline in attacks in Mosul became clear in late May, Ryan C. Crocker, the American ambassador in Iraq, said, ''You are not going to hear me say that Al Qaeda is defeated, but they've never been closer to defeat than they are now.''
American and Iraqi officials have called Mosul the last urban bastion of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia and other Sunni jihadist groups. The trash-strewn streets on Mosul's predominantly Sunni Arab western half, separated from the Kurdish and Christian neighborhoods by the Tigris River, had been in a state of more or less continuous uprising since 2004.
The recent operation was necessary after northern Iraq, an area about the size of Georgia, with seven provinces and bordering three countries, became what the American military called an ''economy of force'' region as troops were diverted to Baghdad during the surge. Conditions were dismal. By last fall, only 700 or so American soldiers were stationed in Mosul, the multiethnic fulcrum of the region. American commanders conceded that that was not enough.
The government in nearby Iraqi Kurdistan has sought to annex parts of Nineveh Province around Mosul. That tension has also driven some local Sunni Arabs to allow the insurgents to operate in the province. Insurgents in western Mosul, the Arab city across the Tigris River from the biblical town of Nineveh, took to hanging the bodies of their victims from a bridge to intimidate residents.
For the past several months, American and Iraqi forces have been slowly applying pressure on the city. The operation, named Lion's Roar, began officially on May 10. In it, the Iraqis have relied on significant American military assistance, after similar and tentatively successful assaults in Basra and Sadr City.
American tanks have formed cordons while Iraqi soldiers have searched house to house. Forts built and operated by Americans in western Mosul also greatly helped to stem the car bombings that had plagued this city. The Iraqis, though, drew up the arrest lists and conducted the parleys. To soothe ethnic tensions, a Sunni Arab general oversaw the operation.
In all, 83 percent of the military action had a majority of Iraqi troops participating.
American military statistics show that significant acts of violence, including roadside bombings, sniper shootings, and mortar and rocket grenade attacks, fell from 195 in the week before the operation to 93 in the week after it, according to Lt. Col. Eric R. Price, the chief American adviser to General Hussein.
While Iraqi and American politicians lump the Sunni insurgency under the banner of Al Qaeda, the military operation here relied instead on accurately identifying the many fractured groups of Sunni insurgents, and in some cases opening talks with those considered reconcilable.
Owing to the splintered nature of the Sunni insurgency, rather than a single truce as in Basra and Sadr City, amnesties were negotiated with neighborhood insurgent bosses. By Monday, 27 insurgents had surrendered, according to the American military. Organizers of suicide bombings were not eligible for amnesty.
Maj. Adam Boyd, the intelligence officer for the Third Armored Cavalry Regiment, described the Sunni insurgency here as a dozen groups, including the Islamic State of Iraq, a radical Islamic group that insurgents have put forward as an umbrella group for jihadist fighters in northern Iraq, and Sunni nationalist organizations like the 1920 Revolution Brigades and a Baath Party revival group called Al Awda.
Mosul, and the area around it, is also believed to be a hide-out for some top fugitive Baath Party officials, including Izat Ibrahim al-Duri, one of the kings in the original most-wanted deck of playing cards distributed to American troops.
Other Sunni insurgent groups active in the city are the Army of Islam, the Army of Muhammad and Ansar al-Islam, the group formerly based in Iraqi Kurdistan.
Still, it is unclear how many remain active in the city.
In the Abi Tamam neighborhood on a blistering midmorning in May, Lt. Rusty Morris parked his convoy of armored Humvees beside a reeking field of garbage to begin a mission to show the American presence and speak with residents. Some cows picked around the piles of refuse, while children ran up to the trucks. Two helicopters buzzed overhead.
Lieutenant Morris sidled up to one resident, who introduced himself as Muhammad Ahmed. The man was standing in an alley. Looking bewildered and nodding obsequiously to the American lieutenant, Mr. Ahmed said nervously that he knew of no insurgents still operating in the neighborhood. He explained that he had three wives and six children, and no time to watch for insurgents.
Lieutenant Morris thanked him and moved on, walking past a wall with blue graffiti praising a leader of the Islamic State of Iraq.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Iraqi soldier carrying a grenade launcher signaled to an American Army convoy last week in Mosul, in northern Iraq. (A6)
Joint Iraqi-American checkpoints like this one in Mosul have helped limit violence in the city.
 An Iraqi soldier with men suspected of insurgent activity who were detained last week in Mosul.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) MAP: The Iraqi Army has stepped up operations in Mosul with the help of American units. MAP SHOWS MOSUL 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); ETHNICITY (64%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



40 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: In New Sale, Starrett City Would Stay Affordable

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The owners of Starrett City, a 34-year-old housing complex on Jamaica Bay in Brooklyn, have reached an agreement with federal, state and city officials on the sale of the 140-acre enclave under guidelines that would ensure that it remains a haven of housing affordable to working and middle-class families.
 The agreement would not only allow for the sale of the nation's largest federally subsidized housing complex, but also end a bitter battle that pitted the longtime owners of the complex against residents, tenant advocates and many elected officials. The sale will start this week, and the owners hope to sign a contract by Sept. 1, although it is unclear how high the bidding will go given the slowing economy. 
 Starrett City, which comprises 46 brick towers with a total of 5,881 apartments, has its own power plant, shopping center, post office, churches and a synagogue. It is widely regarded as one of the most successful economically and racially mixed housing complexes in the country.
 Opponents successfully blocked a $1.3 billion sale last year to the real estate investor David Bistricer, fearing that the high price tag would force the new owner to remove tenants in favor of higher-paying residents in order to make a profit. The long-running dispute played out during a real estate boom in New York that has caused rents to soar and has reduced the supply of affordable housing. 
 Instead of deregulating the complex, the accord states that the guidelines for a sale would ''preserve Starrett City as affordable housing.''
 ''I never really thought we could get such a happy solution,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, who helped block the sale last year. ''There were so many players, different factions of tenants, the owners, state, city and federal officials, Democrats and Republicans. But it was worth the long fight and many hours of negotiations. With this agreement we are assured that on into the next generation Starrett stays affordable to working-class and middle-class New Yorkers.''
 Tenant advocates also embraced the agreement, which is described in a memorandum of understanding that was signed by the owners, Starrett City Associates; Priscilla Almodovar, the president of the State Housing Finance Agency; Shaun Donovan, the city's housing commissioner; and John L. Garvin, a senior adviser at the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
 ''It's what we've been fighting for for two years,'' said Bertha Lewis, executive director of New York Acorn, a community organization that worked with the Starrett tenants association. ''This is a model agreement. Finally the tenants at Starrett are actually going to get a very good night's sleep. No matter who wins the bidding, they know that people have to abide by the rules.''
 Ms. Lewis said the Starrett agreement could become a model for other subsidized housing complexes that are up for sale. In recent years, tenant advocates, like the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development, say that large developers and private equity firms have bought 90,000 apartments in the South Bronx, Harlem, Long Island City and East New York, raising rents and depleting an already tight housing market. 
 Mr. Schumer, Gov. David A. Paterson, Assemblyman Vito J. Lopez, Congressman Ed Towns and others plan to attend a rally at Starrett City on Monday to formally announce the accord and the pending sale. 
 Starrett City, with its manicured lawns and dozens of apartment towers with balconies, was designed in the 1970s as a subsidized middle class co-op, not a rental complex. But it initially had difficulty attracting residents and over time, the complex acquired an array of rent subsidies for poor and working-class tenants.
 As the original owner, Starrett City Associates initially invested $33 million in the complex and promised to keep rents low in return for a variety of tax breaks. During the aborted sale last year, Starrett City Associates had prohibited bidders from speaking with tenants or government officials, creating an atmosphere of distrust. But this time, interested buyers will be encouraged to talk to public officials.
 The new agreement did not come without some arm wrestling and concessions on both sides.
 The owners, a group of 250 investors led by Disque and Carol Deane, agreed to an affordable housing provision. It could lower the sale price, although it would provide bidders with assurances that the government, which provides roughly $70 million a year in rent and other subsidies, would not block a sale, as it did last year. Under the agreement, the city would also assist a new owner in gaining approval for new retail and housing development on the Starrett City property.
 The state, in turn, would forgo an estimated $13 million in interest payments owed by the current owners, and the city would continue to offer a property tax abatement. 
 More important, Mr. Schumer has sponsored legislation that would convert the rent subsidy programs that cover 60 percent of the units at the complex to a 20-year rent subsidy program known as Section 8. The new owner could then set the rents based on an analysis of the rental market. The remaining 40 percent of the apartments are already covered by the Section 8 program but would not be subject to a new base rent.
 The legislation, which is expected to be approved by the full Congress this summer, has already been adopted by the Senate Banking Committee and the House. 
 Mr. Deane and Starrett City Associates plan to start the sale on Tuesday by sending bid packages to prospective buyers. About 30 organizations have already signaled their interest, including the Related Companies, one of the city's major developers, Enterprise Community Partners, Phipps Houses and the NHP Foundation.
 A potentially large bidder that may try to purchase the complex is led by the Cogsville Group and includes the Rev. A. R. Bernard, who leads an evangelical congregation next to Starrett City; the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty; the Central Labor Council; and the Clarett Group. Mr. Bernard's congregation owns a 4.5-acre parcel next to Starrett City where it has wanted to develop housing.
 But it is unclear how deteriorating economic conditions will affect the offers for the property. As the economy has softened in the last year, lenders have become less willing to finance large real estate deals. Banks are now requiring larger amounts of equity. Some real estate executives estimate that the bids could range from $600 million to $800 million.
 Still, Carol Deane, in a letter to tenants that will be slid under every door in the complex on Monday, said that the owners will ''only consider bids from potential buyers who can demonstrate their ability to successfully own and operate Starrett City as affordable housing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A sale of Starrett City failed last year amid fears that residents would be removed in favor of market-rate tenants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHY WILLENS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); CITIES (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); DEREGULATION (73%); FAMILY (73%); RETAILERS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); RELIGION (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (54%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



41 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 191 words

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
BY THE NUMBERS The main economic news of the week will be the unemployment report on Friday, which is expected to show that May was the nation's fifth consecutive month of job losses. Other reports include the I.S.M. manufacturing index for May, due out Monday morning, and factory orders for April on Tuesday. 
 WHAT YOU EAT Beginning Tuesday, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization will hold a conference in Rome on the security of the world's food supply. The discussion will focus on the impact of climate change on food production, particularly in developing nations.
 PROFIT FROM THEFTTake-Two Interactive Software, publishers of the smash hit Grand Theft Auto IV, reports earnings on Thursday. Last month the game had $500 million in sales in its first week on the market. In other earnings news, the home builder Toll Brothers reports on Tuesday.
 MEET AND GREETGeneral Motors will have its annual shareholders' meeting in Wilmington, Del., on Tuesday. Wal-Mart's meeting is on Friday in Bentonville, Ark.
 THE COST OF MONEY On Thursday, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England will make decisions on interest rates.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); AGRICULTURE (70%); FOOD SECURITY (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (67%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (66%); CLIMATE CHANGE (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (68%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (51%) ARKANSAS, USA (74%); DELAWARE, USA (51%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



42 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: 'Sex' and the Box Office: Gal Pals Knock Indy Jones From the Top Spot

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY and BILL CARTER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
''Sex and the City'' and its legion of female fans over the weekend gave Hollywood exactly what it needs to survive an uncertain summer movie season: an unconventional hit.
 The romantic comedy, based on HBO's long-running television series of the same name, unexpectedly overtook the latest ''Indiana Jones'' movie at the domestic box office, bringing in an estimated $55.7 million since opening with midnight shows on Thursday, according to Warner Brothers., which released the film. 
 The performance fell short of the $70 million-plus opening some foresaw after sellout crowds -- 85 percent of the ticket buyers women, many viewing in groups -- brought the film about $26 million in sales on Friday. Still, the weekend opening far exceeded industry expectations, which only a week ago were looking something closer to the $27.5 million taken in by ''The Devil Wears Prada,'' a similarly female-driven hit released by 20th Century Fox in June of 2006. 
 ''It is kind of mind-boggling,'' Sarah Jessica Parker, the ''Sex and the City'' star, said in a telephone interview from her Manhattan home on Saturday. ''We are thrilled and humbled that the audience came out.''
 ''Sex and the City,'' of course, benefited from the enormous audience awareness that came with the television series's six seasons, strong DVD sales and continuing appearances in syndication on TBS. There was also no shortage of media attention showered on the return after four years of Carrie, Miranda, Samantha and Charlotte, whether features about their clothes, their men or the show's enduring influence (for good or ill) on the culture. 
 And yet surprise at the weekend performance was palpable, even among those who made the $65 million film. Ms. Parker, for instance, said she did not intend to sit home this weekend monitoring the box office results. But by late Friday, fans were sending messages and even photographs to her cellphone of women in line outside movie theaters across the country. (As the weekend went on, more men showed up, according to Warner Brothers.) A clutch of negative reviews did nothing to dampen the thirst for making a night or day of it at the theater.
 ''It's a cultural phenomenon; it's an absolutely incredible opening,'' said Dan Fellman, Warner's president for theatrical distribution, speaking by phone on Sunday. First-weekend ticket sales, he noted, were far beyond those of other R-rated comedies, including ''American Pie 2'' from Universal Pictures in 2001 and ''The Wedding Crashers'' from New Line Cinema in 2005.
 The weekend opening also ranked as the strongest ever for a movie carried by a female lead (at least if ticket-price inflation is not taken into account). Paramount's ''Lara Croft: Tomb Raider'' was the previous record-holder, with $47.7 million in ticket sales for Paramount during its opener in 2001.
 ''I am so excited about the possibilities for movies about women,'' Ms. Parker said.
 Ms. Parker credited Michael Patrick King, the movie's writer and director, with creating an update of the hit HBO television show that brought the characters forward. ''It's a movie about being a grown-up,'' she said.
 Grown-up women have never exactly been absent from the big screen. Women's roles have been as complex and varied as Helen Mirren's turn as Queen Elizabeth II, which won her an Oscar in 2007, and Meryl Streep's performance as the semi-monstrous fashion magazine editor in ''Prada,'' which turned into a box office smash.
 But the female audience has seldom showed its potential in the way it did this weekend. 
 As ''Sex and the City'' placed No. 1 for the weekend, Paramount's ''Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull'' dropped to second. The film, directed by Steven Spielberg, had a strong $46 million in ticket sales, bringing its total to $216 million since opening on May 22.
 But the weekend's second major surprise came from Universal, which had some good news, even as its backlot suffered a major fire over the weekend. ''The Strangers,'' a horror film made for about $9 million, took in $20.7 million for the company's Rogue Pictures specialty unit. 
 Like ''Sex and the City,'' the horror film was rated R -- usually a limiting factor at the spring-summer box office, which has traded in recent years on sequels and fantasy films with softer ratings. Yet the movie became Universal's biggest of the year, beating its ''Forgetting Sarah Marshall.'' And it raised hopes that audiences will respond in large numbers to a number of studio films like ''Pineapple Express'' from Sony Pictures Entertainment and ''Tropic Thunder'' from DreamWorks and Paramount, which, in the coming weeks, will test viewer willingness to turn out in large numbers for something other than repeat performances.
 Hollywood could use the help. Even with the strong performances of the Top 3 movies this weekend, year-to-date results still lag last year's total. According to Media by Numbers, a box-office tracking firm, tickets sales are off about 2.8 percent and attendance is down 5.5 percent compared with the corresponding time last year.
 Whether the rest of the summer's entrants will excite moviegoers as much as last year remains to be seen, but one thing is certain: The striking success of ''Sex and the City'' will spark immediate talk of another movie with Ms. Parker and her sidekicks -- Cynthia Nixon, Kim Cattrall and Kristin Davis.
 ''They might be talking about a sequel,'' she said. ''But it still feels like we're opening this movie.''
 She added: ''Michael and I still have never discussed it. It would have been greedy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Sex and the City'' fans on Sunday at a cinema in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); COMEDY FILMS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MOVIE THEATERS (76%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); THEATER (57%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (50%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (50%)

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



43 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: From a Master of Weather, 4 Waterfalls for New York

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
On an unusually cold and rainy spring afternoon, Olafur Eliasson was huddled under a large umbrella in Lower Manhattan gazing down the East River toward Governors Island. 
 ''You could be in Sweden or Denmark,'' he said of the gray, even light. ''Fog makes everything more explicit. See how Governors Island fades in the rain?'' 
 It seemed fitting that Mr. Eliasson, a Danish-Icelandic artist who is world-famous for creating his own weather systems, was enveloped in a misty landscape that could well have been of his own making.
 He had traveled straight from the airport to Pier 35 on the East River after flying in from his home and studio in Berlin. He has been a familiar presence at the site for the last several months, having visited every two weeks to check on the progress of his ''New York City Waterfalls.'' 
 His much-publicized $15 million initiative is to create four waterfalls ranging from 90 to 120 feet in height that will appear from June 26 to Oct. 13 and run from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. In addition to the waterfall at Pier 35, just north of the Manhattan Bridge, there will be one in Brooklyn at the foot of the Brooklyn Bridge, another between Piers 4 and 5 near the Brooklyn Heights Promenade and a fourth on the north shore of Governors Island. 
 Organized by the nonprofit Public Art Fund and the city of New York, it is being billed as the city's biggest public art project since ''The Gates,'' the $20 million effort by the artists Christo and Jeanne-Claude in which 7,500 gates festooned with saffron-colored fabric panels were positioned along Central Park's pathways for 16 days in 2005. 
 It is also Mr. Eliasson's first public art project in New York. When he proposed the idea to the Public Art Fund, Susan K. Freedman, the organization's president, decided that such an undertaking could be accomplished only with the city's heft behind it. ''It was too ambitious,'' she said. ''This has been two intense years of getting permits and making sure it was environmentally safe.'' 
 Altogether, at least 108 people have been involved, including engineers, scientists, divers, scientists, riggers and environmentalists. 
 As has often been the case with arts projects, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's office was eager to be involved. ''The mayor is always looking for new ways to showcase New York,'' said First Deputy Mayor Patricia E. Harris. She added that several city and state agencies also played a role. ''There's never been a manual for how to put waterfalls in the East River,'' she explained.
 Ms. Harris said she hoped this multiborough project would attract visitors, just as ''The Gates'' generated an estimated $254 million in economic activity for the city. Hotels are offering special waterfall packages. Tourist agencies are planning bicycle and boat tours. The Circle Line Downtown will be running special waterfall excursions, too, some of them free, with an audio introduction by Mr. Eliasson. 
 City officials and the Public Art Fund say that no city money is being used to pay for the waterfalls, with all of the funds coming from foundations, corporations and private supporters. 
 The spot where Mr. Eliasson paused on that recent rainy day, an esplanade frequented by joggers and dog walkers as well as tourists visiting Lower Manhattan, holds a particular fascination for him. ''From here you can see all four sites at once,'' he said. 
 An intense man with a small frame and rumpled brown hair, the artist, 47, in flawless English, tried to explain the mechanics of his project. All that was visible that afternoon were several steel scaffolding constructions on the shoreline by Pier 35, floating black devices to prevent boats and fish from interfering with underwater filters. 
 A cage beneath the river's surface pumps water through a pipe running upward along the scaffolding, shooting it through a trough at the top and then down the other side to frothy effect. 
 Mr. Eliasson said he purposely left the scaffolding highly visible. ''Scaffolding is not an unfamiliar structure in New York,'' he said. ''You see it on every construction site in the city. I want people to know that this is both a natural phenomenon and a cultural one.'' 
 He said he designed the scaffolding to match the scale of the surrounding buildings so it would blend into the urban landscape. Once the waterfalls are turned on, their sound will meld with the other sounds of the city. 
 Mr. Eliasson is an old hand at creating ephemeral atmospheres. Perhaps his best known is ''The Weather Project,'' an installation in 2003 inside the cavernous Turbine Hall at the Tate Modern in London. That consisted of a giant sun created from hundreds of light bulbs placed at the top of one wall, a mirrored ceiling and a mist machine. Over six months, it attracted more than two million visitors.
 Given that much of New York City is surrounded by water, the idea of creating waterfalls seemed obvious to Mr. Eliasson, who suggests that New Yorkers are not as strongly connected to their waterfronts as urban Europeans are. 
 Throughout history, he said, New Yorkers ''have always taken water for granted.'' He added: ''Now people can engage in something as epic as a waterfall, see the wind and feel its gravity. You realize that the East River is not just static.'' 
 These are not Mr. Eliasson's first waterfalls. In 2005, for instance, he fashioned a 20-foot-tall waterfall in a small garden on the campus of Dundee University in Scotland. At the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Long Island City, Queens, he created a reverse waterfall in 1998, devising pumps and a basin that sent the water traveling uphill. That project is on view through June 30 as part of ''Take Your Time: Olafur Eliasson,'' a midcareer retrospective and two-part exhibition at P.S. 1 and the Museum of Modern Art. 
 Artists throughout history have found romance in waterfalls, of course. In the United States, Hudson River School painters like Thomas Cole, Frederic Edwin Church and Asher B. Durand all included them in their landscapes. 
 ''Viewers will be seeing something they know from a picture, but now they will be experiencing them as a physical thing,'' Mr. Eliasson said.
 Unlike the much-trumpeted opening of ''The Gates,'' the artist said, he expects no official celebratory fanfare when the waterfalls are finally up and running. 
 ''It's important to be very straightforward and not to overamplify or overmystify things,'' Mr. Eliasson said. ''The waterfalls will just be turned on in the morning, and that's it.'' 
 ''New York City Waterfalls'' will run between June 26 and Oct. 13 at Pier 35; at the eastern foot of the Brooklyn Bridge; between Piers 4 and 5 near the Brooklyn Heights Promenade; and on the north shore of Governors Island. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 4, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about a project by the artist Olafur Eliasson to create four waterfalls in New York City misstated his age. He is 41, not 47.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two of the Olafur Eliasson waterfalls planned for the New York waterfront: left, one between Piers 4 and 5, and, above, another at the Brooklyn Bridge. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM BERNSTEIN PHOTOGRAPHY, COURTESY PUBLIC ART FUND) (pg. E5)
 The artist Olafur Eliasson at Pier 17, in front of the Brooklyn Bridge, one site for his new project. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); WEATHER (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); DENMARK (90%); GERMANY (79%); SWEDEN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



44 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Student Loans Start to Bypass 2-Year Colleges

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Some of the nation's biggest banks have closed their doors to students at community colleges, for-profit universities and other less competitive institutions, even as they continue to extend federally backed loans to students at the nation's top universities. 
 Citibank has been among the most aggressive in paring the list of colleges it serves. JPMorgan Chase, PNC and SunTrust say they have not dropped whole categories, but are cutting colleges as well. Some less-selective four-year colleges, like Eastern Oregon University and William Jessup University in Rocklin, Calif., say they have been summarily dropped by some lenders.
 The practice suggests that if the credit crisis and the ensuing turmoil in the student loan business persist, some of the nation's neediest students will be hurt the most. The difficulty borrowing may deter them from attending school or prompt them to take a semester off. When they get student loans, they will wind up with less attractive terms and may run a greater risk of default if they have to switch lenders in the middle of their college years. 
 Tuition and loan amounts can be quite small at community colleges. But these institutions, which are a stepping stone to other educational programs or to better jobs, often draw students from the lower rungs of the economic ladder. More than 6.2 million of the nation's 14.8 million undergraduates -- over 40 percent -- attend community colleges. According to the most recent data from the College Board, about a third of their graduates took out loans, a majority of them federally guaranteed. 
 ''If we put too many hurdles in their way to get a loan, they'll take a third job or use a credit card,'' said Jacqueline K. Bradley, assistant dean for financial aid at Mendocino College in California. ''That almost guarantees that they won't be as successful in their college career.'' 
 So far, financial aid administrators say they have been able to find fallback lenders that students can switch to, but the hurdles are costly to students -- in money and time. The maximum interest rate on federal loans, now at 6.8 percent on the most commonly used loans, is set by Congress, but lenders are scrapping benefits, like rate cuts for borrowers who make their payments on time or allow direct withdrawals from bank accounts. 
 Some loan companies have exited the student loan business entirely, viewing it as unprofitable in the current environment. By splitting out community colleges and less-selective four-year institutions, some remaining lenders seem to be breaking the marketplace into tiers. Students attending elite, expensive, public and private four-year universities can expect loans to remain plentiful. The banks generally say these loans are bigger, more profitable and less risky, in part perhaps because the banks expect the universities' graduates to earn more. 
 Lenders will not say how many colleges they have dropped, making it hard to determine just how many institutions have been affected. Although financial aid administrators say the trend is widespread, they are often reluctant to identify which lenders have stopped serving their colleges, for fear that it will complicate matters for current students who have taken out loans from those lenders and still need to deal with them. 
 Michelle McClain, 40, who is studying to become a teacher, learned on Friday that she would have to find a new lender after Citibank dropped William Jessup University. The news angered her.
 ''The loan is between me and the lender,'' Ms. McClain said. ''I'm the one that's taking out the loan, I'm the one whose credit is in jeopardy if I don't pay it, I am the one totally responsible for the loan, and as long as I'm going to an accredited college, I don't understand why it would make one iota of difference where I am going to college.''
 The government has been taking additional steps to keep the student loan market operating smoothly. And some lenders' doors remain wide open. Sallie Mae and Nelnet recently reaffirmed their commitment to federal loans regardless of the institution a student attends. Kristin Shear, director of student financial services at Santa Rosa Junior College, said that days after the school was dropped by Citibank, Wells Fargo called to say it was eager to lend to students there. 
 The banks that are pulling out say their decisions are based on an analysis of which colleges have higher default rates, low numbers of borrowers and small loan amounts that make the business less profitable. (The average amount borrowed by community college students is about $3,200 a year, according to the College Board.) Still, the cherry-picking strikes some as peculiar; after all, the government is guaranteeing 95 percent of the value of these loans.
 Mark C. Rodgers, a spokesman for Citibank, which lends through its Student Loan Corporation unit, said the bank had ''temporarily suspended lending at schools which tend to have loans with lower balances and shorter periods over which we earn interest. And, in general, we are suspending lending at certain schools where we anticipate processing minimal loan volume.'' 
 Financial aid officials in California said that Citibank had stopped making loans to students at all community colleges in the state. Mr. Rodgers said the bank would not provide details about which schools were affected.
 The financial aid director at William Jessup, Korey Compaan, said he did not understand the bank's explanation.
 ''The logic is so flawed, that for us to have volume with them in the future, we have to have had volume with them in the past,'' Mr. Compaan said. Simply to cut off students at a college, he continued, ''I find it totally and completely unethical.''
 The government sets the criteria for college participation in federal loan programs, requiring that colleges be accredited and have low default rates to participate, for example. Now lenders are being more selective than the government. 
 ''There's been a certain amount of market segmentation going on, but this is the first time we've seen a lender, especially as large as Citibank, saying, 'We don't want to do business with you,' '' said Samuel F. Collie, director of financial aid at Eastern Oregon University in La Grande, Ore.
 ''There's a fundamental issue of fairness and equity that's certainly not being addressed in this,'' Mr. Collie said. ''But short of completely revamping the way that financial aid, especially loans, is being delivered to students in this country, I don't know that we have any easy answers.''
 The credit crisis, which has made it harder for some lenders to raise money, and a reduction in the government's subsidy to lenders have contributed to the reevaluations by the lenders.
 ''This is one of those perfect storm situations,'' said Susan L. Mead, director of financial aid at Dutchess Community College in New York. She said her institution had been dropped by no less than six lenders: HSBC, Citibank, M&T, Chase, Citizens Bank and Student Loan Xpress. 
 Christine Holevas, a spokeswoman for Chase, said that the bank considered several factors in deciding whether to lend to a particular college's students. ''The repayment rate, you look at the size and length of the loan,'' she said. ''We have tightened credit standards, yes, but we haven't cut off any category of school.'' 
 Hugh Suhr, a spokesman for SunTrust, said it was ''stepping away from some relationships'' with universities, but that this was ''not based on any particular type of school.'' Mr. Suhr said the bank continued to lend to students at a range of institutions. 
 Another danger for students is that as they are forced to find and switch to replacement lenders, they may lose track of some debt obligations and miss a few payments.
 ''It might put them in default,'' said Claudia Martin, director of financial aid at Monterey Peninsula College, a community college in California that was dropped by Citibank and two other lenders. ''We always recommend that a student stay with the same lender all through school.'' 
 Commercial colleges, among the first to suffer when lenders withdrew from the market, have been openly critical of the new differentiation. 
 ''From what I can tell from our lawyers, it's not technically illegal for them to reject schools,'' said Harris N. Miller, the president of the Career College Association in Washington, a trade group for commercial colleges. ''I just think that's very objectionable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); STUDENT LOANS (91%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



45 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: In the Middle of Nowhere, a Nation Finds Its Center

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: BUTTE COUNTY, S.D. 

 BODY:
 The mesmerizing prairie monotony along Highway 85 south is abruptly broken by a blue sign about the size of a cafeteria tray. In roadside shorthand it offers an expeditionary challenge worthy of Jules Verne: this way, 7.8 miles, to the CENTER OF THE NATION.
 The unpaved road at the turnoff greets cars of the curious with growls of annoyance, and for several miles offers only sheared sheep, skittish antelope and grass. But just when suspicions of a prank begin to invade the mind, something 100 yards off the road catches the eye, something red, and white -- and, yes, blue.
 It is a wind-tattered American flag, flapping at the top of a silvery pole that rises from the Dakota moonscape like the claim stake of some disoriented astronaut. A hand-scrawled sign propped against a barbed-wire fence provides confirmation: Though the absence of a souvenir stand or even a snow-cone booth would suggest otherwise, this remote spot is, in fact, the declared geographic center of the United States. 
 Over the years this dot on the map has been treated as a holy place and as a place to share a six-pack, an inconvenient place, a nearly forgotten place, a place to reflect on something larger than one's self. Who knows why the centers of things matter -- the centers of cities, of states, of countries -- but they do.
 No one knows this better than David Doyle, the chief geodetic surveyor for the National Geodetic Survey at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which oversees a national coordinate system for mapping and other scientific and engineering uses. He recalls that when his mentor retired 20 years ago, the man plopped a file three inches thick on Mr. Doyle's desk and said, ''Now it's yours.''
 The file overflowed with letters and documents, some dating back to 1925, all concerning the ''center'' of places American. Though the subject is hardly a government priority, Mr. Doyle says he continues to maintain the file because he now knows what his predecessor knew: ''People find this to be really, really important.''
 For a while, this country's geographic center bounced around the heartland like the ball on an old movie-screen singalong. When Alaska joined the union nearly 50 years ago, the government determined that the center -- the theoretical balance point -- had moved from outside Lebanon, Kan., to some inaccessible prairie here in Butte County, 439 miles to the northwest. (Fret not, Lebanon has adapted; it now calls itself the ''Historical Geographical Center of the 48 States or the Contiguous United States.'')
 Then, when Hawaii became a state soon after, the center moved again -- just six miles to this spot, about 21 miles north of Belle Fourche, a small city of ranching and agriculture. The center of the nation was now a few dozen yards from what was then Highway 85; local officials gazed into the open pasture and saw visions of camera-wielding tourists, jammed parking lots, a Belle Fourche boom.
 ''Now We're Rolling,'' proclaimed the local newspaper, The Belle Fourche Bee.
 On a windswept day in October 1959, more than 100 people gathered in the pasture for the raising of the American flag up a 40-foot pole that volunteers had set in concrete. A band played ''The Star-Spangled Banner,'' and a visiting dignitary spoke of the many tourists surely to follow.
 But in the mid-1960s the state made some road improvements just north of Belle Fourche. The new Highway 85 bypassed the center of the nation by 7.8 miles; the old Highway 85 became the road rarely traveled, the nation's center the attraction not attracting.
 After a while, some road maps and guides began placing the center at a scenic rest area about 10 miles to the northeast, on a rise just off the main highway, simply because it featured a sign that essentially said the nation's center was over there somewhere.
 Adding to the confusion was Belle Fourche, now billing itself as the ''Center of the Nation.'' But the price of this boast was constantly explaining to persistent tourists that the actual center was on the other side of a barbed-wire fence, 13 miles up Highway 85 and 7.8 miles along an unpaved road. And don't expect any snow-cones.
 By 1999, the year that Teresa Schanzenbach became director of the Belle Fourche Chamber of Commerce, vandalism had forced the closing of that scenic rest area; local officials had tired of replacing the ''Center of the Nation'' signs stolen along Highway 85; and the 40-foot flagpole had long since vanished. Only a short red fencepost marked the spot; no flag attached.
 ''It had lost its pizzazz,'' Ms. Schanzenbach says.
 For years Belle Fourche struggled with how to capitalize on its nearness to the center of the nation. There were meetings, and fund-raising golf tournaments, and more meetings, and grumblings about how even Rugby, N.D., the ''Geographical Center of North America,'' had a 15-foot stone obelisk to mark the spot.
 Finally, last summer, the Chamber of Commerce unveiled a ''Center of the Nation'' monument planted in the grass behind its office: a massive map of the United States enclosed in a compass rose, designed by a local artist and made of 54,000 pounds of South Dakota granite. American tourists could stand on their home state and pose for photographs memorializing their visit to somewhere near the nation's center.
 Ms. Schanzenbach says 2,200 tourists stopped at the Belle Fourche visitors center in September, compared with about 200 the September before -- all thanks to the monument. Although staff members and handouts explain that the actual center is a good half-hour's drive away, she says 90 percent of the visitors choose to pose for photos at the monument and then carry on to Deadwood, Mount Rushmore and attractions beyond.
 ''We're not pretending to be the actual center,'' she says. ''We're providing a convenience.''
 But Ms. Schanzenbach knows what 90 of 100 visitors do not experience. She has been to the center; in fact, she has made sure that a flag again flies there. And she encourages others to go.
 You slip through the barbed wire and follow a worn path toward the flag, past dandelions and wildflowers sprouting from the scrub, with nothing before you but sky, pasture and a solitary flag, its reds and whites torn at the ends by winter's winds. And there, planted in the spring-softened ground, near pocks left by hooves and shoes, is a disc-shaped marker left in 1962 by the government's geodetic surveyors.
 In the center of the disc it says: CENTER.
 Hidden songbirds provide the only sound; their chatter recalls the giggles of unseen Munchkins. But then, in this remote, still place, there comes a strange sense of reassurance: that in this time of uncertain war and near-certain recession, of home foreclosures and gas at $4 a gallon, at least somewhere in this nation a center holds.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHERE THE GRASS MEETS THE SKY: In 1959, when the center of the nation was declared to be in Butte County, S.D., along a major highway 21 miles from the city of Belle Fourche, local officials envisioned a tourist haven. But when the highway was relocated some years later, plans dried up. A handwritten sign marks the spot today.
 A marker in Belle Fourche seeks to capitalize on the city's nearness to the center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURVEYING & MAPPING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



46 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2017 words

HEADLINE: Increased Flow of Council Grants to Private Groups Leads to a Backlog

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA and WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM; Russ Buettner contributed reporting.

 BODY:
An Orthodox Jewish school in Queens was to get $500,000 for a swimming pool. A social service agency in Queens plagued by financial mismanagement was set to receive $100,000 for a shelter and a van.
 A nonprofit corporation in the Bronx that has filed only one tax return in nine years was to be granted more than $4.7 million for a housing complex, a community center and a hip-hop museum. 
 Every year, the City Council receives a huge wish list of requests for capital project money for local organizations. And in recent years the Council leadership has deemed some $500 million in projects worthy of public finance, even projects that are sometimes parochial, overly ambitious or sponsored by organizations with spotty financial histories. 
 Investigators reviewing Council spending have focused on grants that community groups receive to offset their operating expenses. But the capital budget that legislators use to finance big-ticket items like new buildings or buses is a larger pot of money: a half-billion dollars versus $360 million. And for years it has been shrouded in bureaucratic secrecy. 
 Once, council members rarely used their capital money to do more than finance a pet project within a city agency, perhaps road repaving in their districts. But increasingly, larger amounts of taxpayer dollars have been set aside for church groups, nonprofit groups and other private organizations, earmarked by council members to buy these groups equipment or renovations, or sometimes new buildings. 
 The practice has grown so expansive that the city has hired extra staff to shepherd the projects, which are often fraught with legal complications. Hundreds of groups approved for the money, meanwhile, have never received it. Some requests have been stalled because of constitutional questions over the separation of church and state, others because the groups did not have the financial or technical means to carry out the project -- even with city aid. Many simply languished, yet remained on the books, year after year. 
 In fact, the backlog has grown so big that last year the Council and the Bloomberg administration stopped financing any new capital projects for private groups until they could develop a better way to choose which programs deserve the money.
 ''We really had to find a way to get this under control,'' said Speaker Christine C. Quinn. ''What was happening is the money was getting put in the budget and then it wasn't moving, which is really a waste.'' 
 The unspent money could have gone to schools or libraries or health clinics, Ms. Quinn said.
 Advocates say it would be wrong, however, to view the broad expanse of capital spending on nonprofits as wasteful. 
 ''Without city assistance, the not-for-profit sector would not be able to maintain the quality of facilities that are necessary to meet the needs of the poor and vulnerable citizens of New York,'' said Ronald Soloway, director of governmental relations for the UJA-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies.
 The city's capital budget is meant to finance permanent improvements to its infrastructure, like new buildings or bridges, or expensive equipment like buses. As with the operating budget, the mayor's office sets aside a portion of the capital budget for the Council to spend as it deems fit. 
 The Council spends most of its money on public schools, libraries and parks. But increasingly over the last five years, resources have been directed to outside nonprofit groups. The current capital budget shows at least 570 projects totaling more than $490 million, though the city no longer supports many of the projects. 
 Many of those projects that never came to fruition had sailed through a review process that required only minimal vetting and that the City Council used for many years to set spending priorities, according to city records and interviews. Only after the money was allocated and on the books did the vetting process really begin.
 The hip-hop museum, for example, won financing despite the troubled history of the group promoting it. Sponsored by Councilman Larry B. Seabrook for an area viewed as the birthplace of the musical genre, the proposed museum was allocated $1.5 million by the Council in 2006; the money was earmarked for the Northeast Bronx Redevelopment Corporation, a group closely linked to Mr. Seabrook. An additional $3.25 million was allocated to the group from 2005 to 2007 to build a housing complex and a community center that would house the museum.
 In 1995, the Daily News reported that the group used state money for youth programs to pay workers on Mr. Seabrook's 1994 Assembly campaign. A federal investigation did not result in an indictment, but a scathing state audit caused the group to lose its state contracts. 
 In 2001, the group began amassing city contracts. It has since collected $800,000 under such contracts despite filing only one tax return between 1998 and the end of 2007. Cleveland E. Beckett Jr., a spokesman for Mr. Seabrook, said the group was not required to file a return some of those years ''because it had little or no activity from 1999 to 2003.'' 
 Another group with a troubled financial history was awarded $50,000 for a van in 2001 and another $50,000 to help build a shelter in 2003. A report by the state welfare inspector general in 2004 revealed that the group, Walk the Walk in Queens, had had to shut down for several months in 2002 and again in 2004 because of cash-flow problems, in both cases cutting services to the elderly and letting go of its staff. 
 In both instances, the group blamed delays in financing from the Department for the Aging, which administered hundreds of thousands of dollars in grants allocated to the group for operating expenses. The agency told auditors the delays were partly a result of a ''long-standing concern that W.T.W. was not adequately providing services to the elderly,'' the report said. 
 Council members each typically get $3 million to $5 million a year to spend on capital projects. Until this year, the process was to prioritize a list and then hand it to the Council's finance division. 
 Ms. Quinn, who took over as speaker in January 2006, and her predecessor, Gifford Miller, said they did not personally review every project. That duty was left to city agencies once the funding was approved and in the budget. 
 ''I think it's fair criticism to say there wasn't enough vetting of capital budget allocations, which is why we changed the process, and started that change a year ago,'' Ms. Quinn said. 
 The Northeast Bronx Redevelopment Corporation's project was never financed because, even with the grants, the group did not have the money to carry out its plans, city officials say. Walk the Walk's first City Council capital project was financed -- $50,000 for a van -- but the second was not, Council officials said, although they could not say why. 
 Many other approved projects for religious organizations and schools were pulled back, ostensibly because financing them would have violated constitutional separations of church and state or the Blaine Amendment, which limits public financing of private schools. 
 Officials cited the National Conference of Synagogue Youth, dedicated to ''encouraging passionate Judaism'' in teenagers, as one of those groups rejected after the Council awarded it $50,000 for a bus. But David Frankel, the group's associate international director, said it voluntarily declined the money after closely reviewing the city's criteria prohibiting the use of public money for religious activity. 
 ''There are so many programs we offer that are exclusively forthe Jewish community and programs that are open to the larger community, and we didn't want to commingle the funds,'' Mr. Frankel said. 
 Often, projects approved by the Council were never financed because they were loosely defined or city agencies simply could not reach a group to negotiate a deal. 
 ''What would happen was a large volume of relatively small projects would be put into the capital budget, but it wasn't always totally clear what was being proposed, or who precisely was going to be responsible for carrying it out,'' said Jeffrey D. Friedlander, first assistant corporation counsel for the city's Law Department. ''As a result, the system was stuck. Many projects were not being completed, and the time of a large number of city officials was occupied trying to sort everything out.'' 
 In some instances, the allocation of capital funds was so confusing that no one in the Council was clear on who proposed particular projects. 
 Such is the case with the Council's 2006 allocation of $500,000 to build a swimming complex at an Orthodox school for girls in Far Rockaway, Queens. In an interview, the school's dean said he was not aware that any city money had been set aside for it. 
 ''I have no idea what you're talking about,'' said Rabbi Samuel Hiller, the dean at the school, Bnos Bais Yaakov, who recalled initial discussions about the funding a few years ago but said he was unaware of follow-up conversations or meetings.
 The project, which was never financed by the city, is listed in Council records as an initiative by Mr. Miller, the former speaker, according to Council staff. But Mr. Miller said he had no recollection of it, and Councilman James Sanders Jr., whose district includes the school, said through a Council spokesman that he had no role in seeking the money.
 The Bloomberg administration and the city's borough presidents also use the capital budget to finance projects by private entities and nonprofit groups. The budget contains about 159 such projects put forth by the mayor and 226 by the borough presidents, totaling more than $289 million. 
 John Gallagher, a spokesman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, acknowledged that such spending had increased, attributing the change to the mayor's ''commitment to improving infrastructure and to economic development investments to ensure the city's future.'' 
 Current and former officials say the use of capital money for private projects was rare before 2002. Many of them point to an event in 1998 as the germinal factor for the explosion that would follow. That year, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani allocated $65 million to help expand the privately owned Museum of Modern Art. Former Giuliani officials say the mayor provided grants to private groups sparingly. 
 In the years to come, however, council members, particularly outside Manhattan, began citing Mr. Giuliani's effort in proposing their own projects as equally worthwhile. But with the growth came the backlog. 
 The city ultimately set guidelines in 2004 in hopes of creating criteria to decide what sort of privately owned projects deserved the money.
 But the guidelines called for virtually no vetting on the part of the Council before it approves a project, requiring only that the Council provide the mayor's Office of Management and Budget with basic information, including the name of the recipient organization, a contact person and the scope of the work. 
 In May 2007, with legions of projects still on hold, city officials tried to streamline the process. For the last year, a task force has been meeting to review the backlogged projects. In March the panel issued new guidelines that, among other things, clarify the city's inability to finance projects aimed to advance religious or political activity. But Stephen Louis, who heads the Law Department's Legal Counsel Division, said in a statement that the task force had yet to make a formal recommendation on any of the more than 500 projects that are currently under its purview.
 The guidelines also seek to weed out fly-by-night organizations by requiring that applicants already have city operating contracts of at least $50,000 and own the property on which improvements are to be made, as opposed to having a long-term lease.
 And for the first time, council members are being asked to be personally responsible for researching the groups they hope to finance, to ensure they meet all city requirements before adding projects to the budget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Northeast Bronx Redevelopment Corporation received City Council grants of $4.7 million despite a troubled financial history. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B5)
 Speaker Christine C. Quinn said, ''It's fair criticism to say there wasn't enough vetting of capital budget allocations'' in the past. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); CITIES (71%); CHURCH & STATE (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (66%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (51%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



47 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: A Hollywood Horror Story, With a Twist

BYLINE: By ALLISON HOPE WEINER

 BODY:
M. Night Shyamalan says he knows exactly when his relationship with Hollywood started to sour. 
 In 2000, he was on a conference call with executives from Walt Disney Studios discussing ''Unbreakable,'' the follow-up to his phenomenally successful movie ''The Sixth Sense.'' He wanted to market ''Unbreakable'' as a comic-book movie -- the tale of an unlikely superhero -- but Disney executives insisted on portraying it as a spooky thriller, like ''The Sixth Sense.''
 ''I remember the moment that it happened, exactly where I was sitting at the table, the speakerphone,'' he recalled in an interview from his office in a converted farmhouse near Philadelphia. ''That moment may have been the biggest mistake that I have to undo over 10 years so the little old lady doesn't go, 'Oh, he's the guy who makes the scary movies with a twist.' ''
 Eight years later, movie audiences still know Mr. Shyamalan as the guy who makes scary movies with a twist. 
 He also has not been able to undo his reputation in Hollywood as a talented filmmaker who will not play by studio rules. After the success of ''The Sixth Sense,'' he criticized Disney executives, dared to compare his talent to Steven Spielberg's and Alfred Hitchcock's and has steadfastly asserted his reputation as an outsider by refusing to move from Philadelphia to Hollywood. 
 His outsider persona continued to work for him, so long as the films ''The Sixth Sense,'' ''Unbreakable'' and ''Signs'' continued to make money. But when his films started to falter at the box office -- his last movie, ''Lady in the Water,'' was drubbed by critics and ignored by moviegoers -- the Hollywood establishment's support began to wane.
 That failure has put considerable pressure on his new film, ''The Happening,'' an R-rated horror movie for Fox that opens on June 13. Another failure would harm the Shyamalan name and make it difficult for him to keep full control over his films.
 But Mr. Shyamalan, who says he has become press shy, offers no apologies and believes that some of the criticism about him was largely based on his refusal to accept Hollywood norms. 
 ''I have two options: conform to the paths that have been laid out prior to me or deal with it,'' he said emphatically. ''So which one do you suggest I do? I wouldn't be where I am now if I hadn't denied those conventions to begin with.'' 
 His career illustrates one of the stubborn paradoxes of Hollywood: the film industry loves the myth of the auteur, the rugged individual filmmaker who plays by his own rules, until faced with the reality. Around the time that ''The Sixth Sense'' was released, this was a particularly potent idea, as studios tried to build brands around star directors like Quentin Tarantino and the Wachowski brothers (who made ''The Matrix''), hoping their names would sell movies the way Hitchcock's once did. 
 But the studios also need to heed the brutal realities of the movie business. All of these directors have had high-profile stumbles that suggest moviegoers care more about what is on the screen than what is above the title. And unlike animated brands like Shrek, real-life characters like Mr. Shyamalan can prove difficult to work with.
 ''It never really worked,'' argues David Weitzner, the former head of worldwide marketing for Universal and an adjunct professor at the School of Cinematic Arts at the University of Southern California. ''It's pomposity on the part of studios to think that the public is going to respond to an advertising message that says to see the film because it's from the director of another film. It's stupid and to some degree, it's fueled by ego.''
 Even given their limited success with marketing brands, studio marketing departments continue to use the method to sell films. ''They're marketing anything they can find to market because we're living in a time where it's so competitive and difficult,'' said Michael Taylor, chairman of the film and television production division at the School of Cinematic Arts. 
 Mr. Shyamalan, who will get his name above the title for ''The Happening,'' still believes that a director's name on the marquee -- one that is not Steven Spielberg's -- can sell a blockbuster as easily as a star's can. 
 ''The problem is the assumption that if I am selling the movie -- because I'm selling me -- that I'm being egotistical. If Will Smith did the same thing, it would be perceived very differently,'' he said. ''You're supposed to be hidden if you're a director. That's a rule that who said in the movie business?''
 Born in India, Mr. Shyamalan was raised in suburban Philadelphia by his parents, both doctors who knew little about the film industry. He attended the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, then made two commercially unsuccessful films, ''Praying With Anger'' (1992) and ''Wide Awake'' (1998), before selling his screenplay for ''The Sixth Sense'' to Disney for $3 million. The movie, made for about $40 million, grossed more than $600 million worldwide.
 Since then, the numbers have been going in the wrong direction. After ''Signs'' grossed more than $400 million worldwide, ''The Village'' took in only $255 million. ''Lady in the Water,'' which opened in 2006, had a budget of about $75 million and made less than $70 million. 
 As the box office started to stumble, the elements that had made his movies different -- the Pennsylvania settings, the themes about faith, the unexpected endings -- became a basis for criticism. 
 Mr. Shyamalan broke off his relationship with Disney when he made ''Lady in the Water'' at Warner Brothers, part of Time Warner. But then he committed the greatest sin of all -- he criticized a meeting with Disney studio executives, Nina Jacobson, Dick Cook and Oren Aviv, in a book by Michael Bamberger, ''The Man Who Heard Voices.'' 
 In the book, which received a huge amount of press, Mr. Shyamalan accused Ms. Jacobson of not giving his ''Lady in the Water'' script ''a truthful reading'' and said that he thought that it had been rejected because Disney ''no longer valued individualism.''
 He also contended that despite Disney's misgivings about making ''Lady in the Water,'' it had ultimately agreed to make the film, but he had refused the offer because he felt that it no longer had faith in him. 
 The Hollywood establishment was outraged by the book and Mr. Shyamalan's public recitation of what are considered very private matters. (Disney executives, through a spokesman, declined to comment for this article.) 
 The book was slaughtered by reviewers, who focused some of their harshest criticisms on the subject. Janet Maslin of The New York Times called it sycophantic and embarrassing. ''Who is M. Night Shyamalan? The point is that you're supposed to know already,'' Ms. Maslin wrote. 
 The good news for Mr. Shyamalan is that many in Hollywood still believe his name can sell tickets. It helps that he has a reputation as an economical filmmaker, someone who comes to the set prepared and who comes in on time and on budget -- all rare commodities in Hollywood. 
 ''I respect Night as a filmmaker and loved working with him,'' said Alan F. Horn, president of Warner Brothers Entertainment, which produced ''Lady in the Water. ''I supported the premise of the movie and what he was trying to accomplish, but sometimes movies work and sometimes they don't. I wouldn't blame the book because I don't think enough people read the book.'' 
 Twentieth Century Fox, part of News Corporation, hired him to write and direct ''The Happening'' in part because it is a return to the kind of scary movie brand that made him famous. 
 ''Night in conjunction with this material is a fantastic pairing,'' said Hutch Parker, now chairman of New Regency, who worked on ''The Happening'' while at Fox. '' 'The Happening' does draw back in its intentions to what Night first did in 'The Sixth Sense.' It speaks more directly and clearly to that genre than some of his previous films.''
 Mr. Shyamalan is also directing ''Avatar: The Last Airbender,'' a big tent-pole movie based on a Nickelodeon cartoon, scheduled to be released in 2010 for Paramount.
 ''I obviously did my homework and checked him out before deciding to make the movie. It's a very important movie for us,'' said John Lesher, president of the Paramount Film Group. ''He's collaborative, open to suggestions and wants to make a hit movie. He's open in the right way. You want a filmmaker who has passion and want him to defend why he believes something is correct.''
 Mr. Shyamalan admits to being slightly more open now. In an effort to dispel perceptions in Hollywood that he is arrogant, he has spent more time in Los Angeles recently. But while saying that he is sorry for any hurt feelings at Disney, he still does not understand why many in Hollywood are so critical of him for turning down Disney's offer.
 ''You'd want me to take the money? You'd want me to whore out. That's what they wanted me to do,'' he said. ''You know how hard it is not to do the conservative thing out there?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The filmmaker M. Night Shyamalan at his home, which he set up far from Los Angeles, in Malvern, Pa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE MERGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES ) (pg.C1)
 Mark Wahlberg, from left, John Leguizamo and M. Night Shyamalan work on ''The Happening.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX, VIA REUTERS) (pg.C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); HORROR FILMS (90%); FILM (89%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); MOVIE RATINGS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (93%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



48 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Industries Allied to Cap Carbon Differ On the Details

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Some of the most powerful corporate leaders in America have been meeting regularly with leading environmental groups in a conference room in downtown Washington for over two years to work on proposals for a national policy to limit carbon emissions. 
 The discussions have often been tense. Pinned on a wall, a large handmade poster with Rolling Stones lyrics reminds everyone, ''You can't always get what you want.''
 What unites these two groups -- business executives from Duke Energy, the Ford Motor Company and ConocoPhillips, as well as heads of environmental organizations like the Natural Resources Defense Council -- is a desire to deal with climate change. They have broken with much of corporate America to declare that it is time for the federal government to act and set mandatory limits on emissions.
 What divides them is that dealing with climate change will almost certainly hurt some industries and enrich others. Billions of dollars are at stake. Depending on how the nation decides to tackle the problem, electricity bills in some states could rise 50 percent, and gasoline prices could go up 50 cents a gallon. 
 ''It's really now a battle over the economics,'' said James E. Rogers, chief executive of Duke Energy, who has long advocated curbing carbon emissions. ''The debate is not about the climate problem. Everybody could agree on the principles and still get the economics wrong.''
 The Senate is to vote Monday to kick off a weeklong discussion on carbon limits. But the intense debates under way already illustrate just how hard it will be for Congress to satisfy conflicting business interests while coming up with a global-warming plan that works. 
 Opposition from corporate interests, including oil, gas and power companies, prompted the Bush administration to opt out of the Kyoto Protocol, a treaty that called on developed countries to limit their emissions.
 But the political winds have shifted. All three presidential candidates have said they favor mandatory curbs on emissions, and the Democratic majority in Congress wants a strong climate policy. The Senate debate could help set parameters of future legislation, which many experts expect to see within two years.
 Congress is considering a complicated approach that would set a limit, or cap, on emissions that would be reduced each year. It would also create emissions permits that large industrial companies, like oil refineries or power plants, would be required to use. 
 By putting a value on carbon dioxide, this cap-and-trade system would provide incentives for companies to reduce emissions. Experts say it could turn into one of the biggest markets in the world, estimated to be worth over $200 billion a year.
 Thus far, climate policy has been slowly shaped by states like California and Massachusetts, with others following. The resulting patchwork of policies has created uncertainty for companies, some of which have recognized that federal system to limit carbon is ultimately unavoidable. 
 ''If they are not at the table, they will not have a hand in the making of the regulation,'' said Robert N. Stavins, director of the environmental economics program at Harvard University. 
 That recognition led to the Climate Action Partnership, the Washington group, in which corporate behemoths and environmental groups have been debating climate policy for over two years, sometimes meeting every week, in order to force the issue.
 In January 2007, the eclectic group endorsed a bold national policy that called for reduction in carbon dioxide emissions of 60 percent to 80 percent by 2050, an aggressive target that is in line with recommendations from an international panel of scientists. But the group, which now has 33 members, has failed to reach consensus on a variety of issues, including how to allocate carbon permits and whether to include a price cap for carbon credits. 
 ''They helped crystallize the concerns about climate,'' said David G. Victor, the director of the energy and sustainable development program at Stanford University and an expert on climate policy who has been closely following the debates. ''But the moment the coalition starts to focus on the details, it starts breaking apart. It's a litmus test for the debate in the country.'' 
 The sharpest battle lines have been drawn over the structure of a cap-and-trade system. This mostly centers on whether carbon allocations -- or pollution permits, as some see them -- should be granted to companies or auctioned off. 
 Under one proposal, Congress would give away about half the allowances to businesses like power plants and oil companies, but also to states and farmers, in order to give time for them to adapt to lower-carbon technologies. Over time, it would gradually sell the rest to the highest bidder, raising money for developing alternative energy sources.
 The bill, sponsored by Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, an independent, and John W. Warner, a Republican, passed a crucial vote in a committee last December and will be debated on the Senate floor this week. 
 Under a similar emissions-trading system in Europe, carbon currently trades at around 26.45 euros a ton, or about $41. At that price, the value of the carbon credits would be about $220 billion in the first year alone.
 The debate over who gets carbon credits is particularly intense in the power sector, which creates 40 percent of the nation's carbon emissions.
 Companies that rely on coal to generate power say that allowances should be free so that customers in the Midwest and the Great Plains, where coal is mostly used, are not disproportionately penalized. Coal accounts for half the nation's power generation, and executives like Mr. Rogers of Duke say these customers should not have to bear the brunt of a national climate policy. 
 But not everyone wants to see allowances doled out free, especially among power producers that are less dependent on coal than Duke. Lewis Hay III, chairman of FPL Group, a Florida power company, says carbon emitters should have to pay for their emissions. 
 ''There is just going to be a giant fight over the free allowances,'' he said. 
 Oil companies are also unhappy with the Senate plan. Although the transportation sector represents around 35 percent of the nation's carbon emissions, oil companies and refiners -- which fuel that sector -- would be granted just 4 percent of total allowances. That would force them to buy carbon credits, which would drive up the price of gasoline and diesel fuels.
 At a time of sharply rising prices, oil executives say this is not the best way to reduce carbon emissions. Better, they argue, to raise fuel efficiency requirements directly or set up a low-carbon fuel standard. 
 The other big fight splitting corporations and environmental groups is whether to set a maximum price on carbon credits.
 Many environmental groups oppose this, fearing it might jeopardize the ultimate goal, which is to reduce emissions. They say that if the price is artificially kept too low, companies would have fewer incentives to cut emissions. 
 But business groups say a ceiling would keep prices from skyrocketing. Some fear that higher energy costs would reduce companies' ability to compete globally and could drive jobs to countries that do not limit carbon. John Engler, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, said the climate bill amounted to ''economic disarmament.'' 
 As the fight escalates, trade groups are planning ad campaigns to make their case against a climate policy. One ad, produced by the United States Chamber of Commerce, shows a man cooking breakfast over candles in a cold, darkened house, then jogging to work on empty highways, asking: ''Is it really how Americans want to live?''
 Setting a price for carbon will raise energy costs throughout the economy, experts said. The Environmental Protection Agency estimated recently that a cap-and-trade bill could reduce gross domestic product by 0.9 percent to 3.8 percent by 2050.
 ''The reality is that cutting emissions is going to cost money,'' said Peter C. Fusaro, chairman of Global Change Associates, an energy and environmental consulting firm. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Watchdog groups often single out the Four Corners site in New Mexico, which burns coal, as an egregious polluter. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL FOY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.C1)
 The transportation sector makes up a third of carbon emissions in the United States. Ford and ConocoPhillips are among the companies trying to shape plans for federal limits on carbon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE RECTOR/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); POWER PLANTS (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (83%); FORD MOTOR CO (83%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (57%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (83%); FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); DUK (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (83%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: JAMES E ROGERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



49 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: Taliban Leader Flaunts Power Inside Pakistan

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Pir Zubair Shah contributed reporting.

DATELINE: PESHAWAR, Pakistan 

 BODY:
With great fanfare, the Pakistani Army flew journalists to a rugged corner of the nation's lawless tribal areas in May to show how decisively it had destroyed the lairs of the Taliban, including a school for suicide bombers, in fighting early this year. 
 Then, just days later, the usually reclusive leader of the Pakistani Taliban, Baitullah Mehsud, held a news conference of his own, in the same region, to show just who was in charge. 
 He rolled up in an expensive-looking Toyota pickup packed with heavily armed Taliban fighters, according to the Pakistani journalists invited to attend. Squatting on the floor of a government school, Mr. Mehsud, clasping a new Kalashnikov, announced he would press his fight against the American military across the border in Afghanistan.
 ''Islam does not recognize boundaries,'' he told the journalists, in accounts published in Pakistani newspapers and reported by the BBC. ''There can be no deal with the United States.'' 
 Mr. Mehsud's jaunty appearance in his home base, South Waziristan, a particularly unruly region of Pakistan's tribal areas, underscored the wide latitude Pakistan's government has granted the militants under a new series of peace deals, and its impact in Afghanistan, where NATO and American commanders say cross-border attacks have surged since talks for those peace deals began in March. 
 The impunity of Mr. Mehsud's behavior has outraged the Bush administration, which is pressing the Pakistani government to arrest and prosecute him.
 ''Bringing Baitullah Mehsud, the head of this extremist group in South Waziristan -- capturing him and bringing him to justice, which is what should happen to him,'' is what the United States wants from Pakistan, Deputy Secretary of State John D. Negroponte said last month in testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
 But the Pakistani government, which at times has considered Mr. Mehsud an ally and is now fearful of his power, appears reluctant to hunt him down. Days before his news conference, Pakistani forces pulled back from his realm in South Waziristan as part of the peace deals.
 American and Pakistani officials accuse Mr. Mehsud of masterminding the assassination of Benazir Bhutto, a former prime minister, in December and sending scores of suicide bombers here and in Afghanistan, while forging a symbiotic relationship with Al Qaeda on Pakistan's frontier.
 Interviews with former military officials and government officials, local residents and a former Taliban member who worked in proximity to Mr. Mehsud's inner circle portrayed him as a militant leader who is barely educated, attracts more knowledgeable people to his side and is ruthless in his goal of an extreme form of Islamic rule.
 He and his main ally, Qari Hussain, whom officials and associates have described as a highly trained and vicious militant, have methodically built up strongholds in North and South Waziristan -- killing uncooperative tribal leaders, recruiting unemployed young men to their jihad and filling the vacuum left by a lack of government services. Now, they also have lieutenants and allies across the tribal region. 
 In South Waziristan, they run training camps for suicide bombers, some of them children, according to the former Taliban member. Their realm is so secure that in April Mr. Mehsud's umbrella group, Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan, held a conference of thousands of fighters that culminated in a public execution, according to a local resident. 
 Local Pakistani authorities say they are helpless to deal with Mr. Mehsud's group. In a measure of their despair, on Wednesday the authorities in the Mohmand district, where the conference and public execution were held, announced a truce with the Taliban. 
 Mr. Mehsud was once a minor figure in the small Shabikhel branch of the fierce Mehsud tribe that lives in South Waziristan, whose inhospitable territory remained a sliver of imperial India left unconquered by the British. 
 But he managed to enhance his stature through the ambivalence -- or protection, according to some officials -- of the Pakistani authorities, say former Pakistani military officials and tribal leaders. His strength grew quickly after February 2005, when the military, then under the control of President Pervez Musharraf, signed a peace deal with him. 
 ''That was when I knew the army was not serious,'' said a tribal leader who has dealt with Mr. Mehsud and would not be named for safety reasons. ''If the army took firm action they could crush him in two months.'' 
 Instead, the army and the Inter-Services Intelligence, the overarching Pakistani intelligence agency, wanted to keep Mr. Mehsud ''in reserve,'' said the tribal leader, who is also a former military officer.
 In essence, the Pakistani authorities stuck to a long-standing policy of ''strategic depth'' in Afghanistan as a bulwark against its enemy India, and Mr. Mehsud was a tool in that game, he said. 
 A retired brigadier, Mehmood Shah, said the 2005 peace deal amounted to a total ''surrender'' to Mr. Mehsud, from which he had advanced virtually unhindered. Against his advice, Mr. Shah said, army checkpoints in key areas of Mehsud territory -- in particular, the Makin bazaar, a favored Taliban hangout, and the strategic Karama mountain range -- were abandoned after the 2005 agreement.
 During the January offensive against Mr. Mehsud, he hid among the civilians around the Makin bazaar, using them as shields and making it tricky to capture him, said Maj. Gen. Athar Abbas, the spokesman for the Pakistani Army. 
 Much of Mr. Mehsud's strength lies in his alliance with Mr. Hussain, a militant groomed in the anti-Shiite group Laskar Jhangvi. Mr. Hussain, who turned up to greet the journalists, is younger than Mr. Mehsud and more confident. He belongs to the more prominent Behlolzi clan of the Mehsud tribe, Mr. Shah said. 
 Mr. Hussain organized the training schools for suicide bombers and a production site for making violent propaganda DVDs designed to encourage young men to join the cause of jihad, the former Taliban member said in an interview. 
 Introduced to The New York Times by an intermediary who vouched for his credibility, the former Taliban member, in his early 20s, could not be named for fear of retaliation. 
 Not all of what the former Taliban member said could be independently corroborated. Major points of his account conformed with public events and with details provided, separately, by former military and civilian officials.
 He said he had worked in the propaganda wing of Mr. Mehsud's cohort from May 2006 to May 2007, and left after Mr. Hussain ordered the killing of eight of his relatives in a dispute. But he remained on friendly terms. ''Baitullah Mehsud is nothing without Qari Hussain,'' he said. 
 He described Mr. Hussain as a kind of enforcer, a deputy to Mr. Mehsud who would order killings of tribesmen and often personally slit a person's throat. Fighters traveling to or from Afghanistan usually consulted with Mr. Hussain first, he added.
 Mr. Hussain ran the school for suicide bombers where he would indoctrinate boys as young as 10, the former Taliban member said. ''He called every child by his name, and talked to him about life in the next world,'' he said. 
 By the time the army began its assault on the Mehsud forces in South Waziristan in January, the results of which it showed off to journalists on the tour in May, Mr. Hussain was one step ahead of them, the former Taliban member said. Mr. Hussain had already moved the suicide bombing school to North Waziristan, he said. There, he said, Mr. Mehsud and Mr. Hussain enjoyed the protection of Sirajuddin Haqqani, a leader of the Afghan Taliban based in Pakistan who has ties to Al Qaeda, according to American intelligence officials. 
 The relationship between Mr. Mehsud and Al Qaeda was secretive, with Al Qaeda the dominant partner that treated the Taliban as supplicants, the former Taliban member said. 
 He described Al Qaeda as ''the Arabs'' who would help the Taliban in South Waziristan with military training. Taliban who wanted the training would be blindfolded so they would not know where they were going, he said. 
 In recent months, Mr. Mehsud's deputies have become entrenched in the tribal areas far from South Waziristan. Another deputy of Mr. Mehsud's, Fakir Mohammed, is in control of much of Bajaur Agency, the northern-most point of the tribal region, according to officials in Peshawar. 
 In the Khyber region, a transit route for NATO fuel convoys bound for Afghanistan from Karachi, Mr. Mehsud's allies have organized tribal killings. 
 The spread of the Pakistani Taliban threatens even Peshawar, the capital of the North-West Frontier Province bordering the tribal areas, the inspector general of police, Malik Naveed Khan, warned. 
 ''They are now on the periphery,'' Mr. Khan said in an interview. If nothing is done, it could be ''a matter of months'' before Peshawar falls, he said. 
 To woo young men away from the Taliban, he wants to create a broad ''conservation corps'' to employ 300,000 men -- approximately one from every family -- to build roads and bridges in the impoverished tribal region. The men would get a stipend to counter the generous 13,000 rupees (about $200) the Taliban pay some members each month. 
 ''The economic effect will be immediate,'' said Mr. Khan, who says he is impatient with a slow-moving $750 million five-year American aid program that began a few months ago. He recites his ideas to the many American development experts who come through his door offering to help. 
 The Americans all say about his employment plan, modeled after President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Civilian Conservation Corps in the 1930s: '' 'We are thinking about it,' '' he said. ''I say: 'Don't think about it, do it.' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Baitullah Mehsud, the Taliban leader in Pakistan, center with his back to the camera. Even Peshawar is threatened by the Taliban, the police say. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A7) MAP (pg. A7) Map of Peshawar in Pakistan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); ARMIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); PEACE PROCESS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); ASSASSINATION (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); RELIGION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: BAITULLAH MEHSUD (78%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (58%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



50 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S ON TONIGHT

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (MTV) LEGALLY BLONDE THE MUSICAL: THE SEARCH FOR ELLE WOODS This new reality series gives 10 perfectly peroxided singers and dancers the chance to step into the Jimmy Choos of Laura Bell Bundy, the star of the Broadway musical ''Legally Blonde.'' (Above, Ms. Bundy promoting the MTV series in Manhattan last week with 50 Elle Woods look-alikes.) But first they'll be primped and prepped by the choreographer Denis Jones, the vocal coach Seth Rudetsky and the sister to another famous blonde, Haylie Duff. Then they'll have to pass muster with the actor Paul Canaan, the casting director Bernard Telsey and the writer of the musical's book, Heather Hach. The Tony Award-winning director and choreographer Jerry Mitchell will make the final cut. 
 8 P.M. (ABC) THE BACHELORETTE Two bachelors vie for a coveted rose during one-on-one dinner dates, with the empty-handed one sent packing. Meanwhile, DeAnna Pappas relies on a good friend to help her sort through the remaining men. After which the said friend, Ellen DeGeneres, gets to hand out a rose herself.
 8 P.M. (The N) INSTANT STAR The fourth season of this award-winning Canadian show about a young pop star begins with Jude (Alexz Johnson) throwing herself into work on an album to avoid dealing with her love life.
 8 P.M. (TLC) LITTLE PEOPLE, BIG WORLD Two ''lost episodes'' look at the construction work of the Roloff twins, Zach and Jeremy, as they try to complete a fort and, at 8:30, a day in the life of the family dog, Rocky.
 8 P.M. (TCM) TRIBUTE TO SYDNEY POLLACKTurner Classic Movies salutes the actor, director and producer, left, who died on May 26, with four of his films: ''The Slender Thread'' (1965), with Sidney Poitier as a crisis-line volunteer and Anne Bancroft as a suicidal caller, at 8; the 1975 conspiracy thriller ''Three Days of the Condor,'' with Robert Redford as a C.I.A. researcher, at 10; the 1982 drag comedy ''Tootsie,'' in which Mr. Pollack starred along with Dustin Hoffman, at midnight; and the 1972 western ''Jeremiah Johnson,'' with Mr. Redford, at 2 a.m.
 9 P.M. (CNBC) THE BUSINESS OF INNOVATIONMaria Bartiromo oversees a new season of five hourlong episodes dedicated to maintaining an edge in a global economy.
 9 P.M. (Discovery) DIRTY JOBS Wind farming sounds like a breeze. Mike Rowe proves otherwise.
 9 P.M. (History) EXTREME MARKSMEN In this sharp-shooting display, people perform seemingly impossible feats of marksmanship with weapons as diverse as crossbows and firearms. Worth seeing to believe: Army snipers who hit targets a mile away and an Old West mirror-shot challenge.
 10 P.M. (ABC) THE MOLE Twelve contestants in Los Angeles, Chile, try to learn the identity of the infiltrator among them as this vintage reality show returns following a four-year hiatus. The person who knows the least about the saboteur at the end of each round is ''executed.'' The final two players duke it out for $500,000. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); CELEBRITIES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); DANCE (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (88%); DANCERS (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); MUSIC (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FILM (74%); ARMIES (72%); WRITERS (69%); DOGS (65%)

PERSON: ELLEN DEGENERES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



51 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: The World Is Upside Down

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO 

 BODY:
 For a while the world was flat. Now it's upside down.
 To understand it, invert your thinking. See the developed world as depending on the developing world, rather than the other way round. Understand that two-thirds of global economic growth last year came from emerging countries, whose economies will expand about 6.7 percent in 2008, against 1.3 percent for the United States, Japan and euro zone states.
 The sharp rise in prices for energy, commodities, metals and minerals produced mainly in the developing world explains part of this shift. That has created the balance of payments surpluses fueling dollar-dripping sovereign wealth funds in the gulf and East Asia. They amuse themselves picking up a stake in BP here, a chunk of Morgan Stanley there, and why not a sliver of Total. 
 We of the developed-world Paleolithic species are fair game for the upstarts now, our predator role exhausted. The U.S. and Europe may one day need all the charity they can get.
 To place this inversion in focus, it helps to be in Brazil, where winter (so to speak) arrives with the Northern Hemisphere summer, and economic optimism, as exuberant as the vegetation, increases at the same brisk clip as U.S. foreclosures.
 Huge offshore oil finds, a sugarcane ethanol boom, vast reserves of unused arable land, mineral wealth and abundant fresh water contribute to Brazilian buoyancy. But natural resources are only part of the story. As in China and India, an expanding internal market is bolstering growth. So is increasing corporate sophistication and global ambition.
 At the annual National Forum, a gathering of business leaders, I felt like a first-world pipsqueak as leaders of the national energy company Petrobras (bigger than BP, Shell and Total) and Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, or C.V.R.D. (the world's second largest mining company), reeled off head-turning statistics.
 Petrobras, which has spearheaded Brazil's push to self-sufficiency from heavy dependence on imported oil 30 years ago, will more than double oil production to 4.2 million barrels a day in 2015 from 1.9 million barrels today.
 ''With the latest discoveries, the South Atlantic will become a huge oil producer,'' predicted Jose Sergio Gabrielli de Azvedo, its chief executive.
 Roger Agnelli of C.V.R.D. waved away the United States (''It's full of debt'') to focus on the company's ambitions in Asia. It was imperative to be there, he said, because that's where growth, capital and ambition are. China, he noted, will account for 55 percent of iron ore consumption, 31.6 percent of nickel, and 42 percent of aluminum by 2012. Case closed.
 Like many other big emerging-market corporations, C.V.R.D. has been on a buying spree. It's not just sovereign wealth funds that are acquiring first-world companies these days. It's the new giants of the NAN (Newly Acquisitive Nations).
 Emerging-market mergers and acquisitions are up 17 percent this year to $218 billion, while for the rest of the world they're down 43 percent to $991 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.
 The 2007 Unctad World Investment Report said developing-world direct foreign investment totaled $193 billion in 2006, compared with a 1990s annual average of $54 billion. The U.S. 2006 figure was $216.6 billion. 
 C.V.R.D. bought Canada's Inco, a nickel miner, for $17 billion in 2006. It came close to acquiring the Anglo-Swiss miner Xstrata for $90 billion this year. Just last week, India's Vedanta Resources reached a $2.6 billion deal to buy U.S. copper miner Asarco.
 That deal is being challenged by Grupo Mexico, creating a Latin-American-Asian fight for a U.S. company.
 If you have trouble getting your mind around that, try standing on your head.
 That's also a good position from which to view India's Tata Motors agreeing to buy Land Rover and Jaguar from Ford for $2.3 billion, or Tata Steel's acquisition last year of the Anglo-Dutch Corus Group steel company for $12 billion.
 Globalization is now a two-way street; in fact it's an Indian street with traffic weaving in all directions.
 ''In an inverted world, not only have developing economies become dominant forces in global exports in the space of a few years, but their companies are becoming major players in the global economy, challenging the incumbents that dominated the international scene in the 20th century,'' said Claudio Frischtak, a Brazilian economist and consultant.
 A shift in economic power is under way to which the developed world has not yet adjusted. Of course the G-8 and the permanent membership of the U.N. Security Council need to be expanded to reflect this change. The 21st century can't be handled with 20th-century institutions.
 That's obvious. Less obvious is how the United States, which underwrites global security at vast expense, begins to share this burden, so that the new multi-polarity of wealth is reflected in a multipolarity of security commitments.
 Headstands are in order for the next U.S. president. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (88%); OIL EXTRACTION (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); MINING OUTPUT (76%); MINES & MINING (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EURO ZONE (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); ALCOHOLS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); OIL EXPLORATION (70%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (70%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (69%); IRON MINING (67%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: VALE SA (83%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA (PETROBRAS) (55%)

TICKER: VALE3 (PAR) (83%); VALE3 (BOVESPA) (83%); VALE (NYSE) (83%); 6210 (HKSE) (83%); MS (NYSE) (56%); PETR3 (BOVESPA) (55%); PBR (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212324 KAOLIN & BALL CLAY MINING (83%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (83%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (70%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (94%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



52 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: The Human Hands Behind the Google Money Machine

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 

 BODY:
If Google were the United States government, the data that streams onto Nicholas Fox's laptop every day would be classified as top secret. 
 Mr. Fox is among a small group of Google employees who keep a watchful eye on the vital signs of one of the most successful and profitable businesses on the Internet. The number of searches and clicks, the rate at which users click on ads, the revenue this generates -- everything is tracked hour by hour, compared with the data from a week earlier and charted. 
 ''You can see very, very quickly if anything is amiss,'' said Mr. Fox, director of business product management at Google. 
 Mr. Fox and his ''ads quality'' team can also quickly see whether something is working particularly well. His group's mission, to constantly fine-tune Google's ad delivery system, has one overriding objective: show users only the ads they are most likely to be interested in and click on. 
 Google runs a complex auction-based system that determines which ads will appear where, and in what order. Every time the team alters the formulas that select and rank ads, Mr. Fox can run a test and quickly see the effect of the changes on users, advertisers and Google's revenue -- which, in this year's first quarter, came in at the rate of more than $2 million an hour. 
 The job has given Mr. Fox, a soft-spoken 29-year-old with an obvious affinity for nuance and numbers, a detailed understanding of the complex dynamics at work inside Google's ad-driven economic engine. 
 Mr. Fox, who graduated from Harvard with a degree in economics and spent two years at the management consulting firm McKinsey & Company before joining Google in 2003, also helped organize its Revenue Force. This select group of engineers, sales and finance people, product managers and statisticians from across the company is charged with keeping top executives apprised of the forces that make Google tick. 
 Google reveals little of these forces to the outside world. Even on Wall Street, many experts describe Google as a giant black box that they struggle to comprehend.
 In recent months, for instance, analysts and investors grew increasingly worried about reports of a decline in clicks on Google ads in the United States, which they interpreted as a sign that Google's business could be suffering from the economic slowdown. But inside Google, Mr. Fox and others were growing confident that the company would do just fine. 
 ''I wouldn't quite go so far as to say we are recession-proof,'' said Hal R. Varian, Google's chief economist. ''But we are recession-resistant.''
 Google's financial results for the first three months of the year surpassed expectations. Still, some analysts point out that Google's growth is slowing, especially in the United States. The extent to which that slowdown is the fault of the economy or just the size and maturity of Google's business remains a matter of debate on Wall Street. 
 Mr. Fox acknowledged that searches and clicks in some areas, like real estate and travel, have grown more slowly recently. But he noted that there is not an exact correlation between clicks and revenue: ''Clicks are only part of the story.'' 
 The idea of linking ads with search results was first developed not by Google but by GoTo.com, which later changed its name to Overture Services and then was bought in 2003 by Yahoo. Overture ranked ads based on how much advertisers were willing to bid for a certain keyword. The higher the bid, the better the placement. 
 As Google's engineers developed their own search advertising system, they understood early on that giving top billing to the highest bidder would have little benefit for Google if that ad did not attract clicks. That is because advertisers typically pay Google only when a user clicks on their ads.
 So Google decided to rank ads based on a combination of bid price and ''click-through rate,'' the frequency with which users click on a given ad. Mr. Fox's team took things from there and gradually became better at figuring out what ads would work with users.
 Yahoo tried to catch up by building a new search advertising system that works more like Google's. It helped increase revenue, but by Yahoo's own account, Google still earns 60 percent to 70 percent more on average than Yahoo on every search. Microsoft has also lagged, in part because it lacks enough advertisers. It acknowledged as much with its recent attempt to buy Yahoo.
 Mr. Fox said Google's ability to constantly fine-tune its operations was intricately linked with its obsession with measuring just about everything that happened on its system. 
 The tools to do so, however, were not always there. About four years ago, when revenue was more than doubling every year and profit was growing even faster, top executives became concerned that Google's business could be riding a bubble in online advertising. 
 Traffic was growing rapidly, as was the average price that advertisers were paying for clicks. But Mr. Fox and others realized that measuring the average cost-per-click was not good enough. Users might be clicking on more high-priced ads and fewer lower-priced ads. That would cause the average cost-per-click to rise, but it would say little about the health of the overall system. 
 So Mr. Varian and Diane Tang, principal engineer in the ads quality group, helped devise what they call a basket of keywords. Much like the consumer price index, a basket of goods and services that economists use to track inflation, the measure is made up of a broad sample of keywords and is weighted to make it statistically accurate. This internal benchmark helps Google get a clearer picture of its performance.
 As measurements improved, Mr. Fox's team unleashed a stream of experiments meant to optimize the ad system. They evaluated changes to things like the clickable area and background color of ads, and the criteria for placing ads above search results rather than beside them. 
 Over time, the company also looked beyond click-through rates to rank ads. Google now takes into account the ''landing page'' that the ad links to, and, for example, gives low grades to pages whose sole purpose is to show more ads. Soon, the loading speed of a landing page will also be considered, Mr. Fox said. 
 These factors contribute to an ad's ''quality score.'' The higher that score, the less the advertiser has to bid to secure top billing. For example, an advertiser who offers to pay $1 per click to attract those searching for ''vacation rentals in Colorado'' may receive more prominent placement than another who bids $1.50 for the same query but has a lower quality score. An advertiser with a very low quality score may have to bid so much for placement as to make it uneconomical.
 Quality scores work as an incentive to advertisers to improve their ads, which benefits users and, in turn, benefits Google, Mr. Fox said. 
 Not all advertisers like Google's approach. Many say that despite efforts by Google to be more transparent, they remain in the dark about what goes on inside the company's ad machine. 
 ''To the extent that Google is a black box, it is not a good thing for advertisers,'' said Anil Kamath, co-founder and chief technology officer of Efficient Frontier, which runs search ad campaigns for marketers.
 Mr. Kamath said Google still offered the most effective system for search marketers, but said many advertisers complain that the company was, in essence, deciding who can and cannot advertise on its system. 
 By the nature of their work, Mr. Fox and other members of the Revenue Force have a front-row seat to the sometimes peculiar relationship between world eventsand Google's business. 
 In mid-February, for instance, the group was taken aback when they saw the number of searches drop unexpectedly. With their antennas keenly tuned for any sign that the economic slowdown could be hitting Google's business, members of the team rushed to come up with a diagnosis. That meant poring over statistics, calling field offices and checking data centers e to ensure none were afflicted by bugs. 
 The team determined that Google had suffered from a series of unrelated minor ailments. Mardi Gras and the Chinese New Year kept people away from their computers, while bad weather knocked out electricity in parts of China, Mr. Varian said. 
 Other events have given Google unexpected increases in traffic because they kept people at home, like heavy rains and flooding in England last summer and a strike in France last fall. 
 ''Bad weather is good for Google, as long as it is not too bad,'' Mr. Varian said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Diane Tang, Nicholas Fox and Hal Varian help monitor and improve the performance of Google's advertising operations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C1) Hal R. Varian, chief economist at Google, says the company is in good shape to weather the current economic slowdown.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); RECESSION (86%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (74%); ENGINEERING (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (97%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (81%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (97%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



53 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 458 words

PERSON: Walter H. Diamond 

HEADLINE: Walter H. Diamond, 95, Expert on Taxation

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
Walter H. Diamond, an expert on international taxation, trade and economics who advised world leaders and wrote more than 80 books, died on May 23 in White Plains. He was 95 and lived in Hartsdale, N.Y. 
 The cause was kidney failure, said his wife of 60 years, Dorothy, the co-author of many of his books. Mr. Diamond had a wide-ranging career in academia, the private sector and government, becoming involved in international affairs as early as World War II. At the onset of the war, while working for the Federal Reserve, he was put in charge of closing down the German, Japanese and Italian banks operating in the United States. 
 Mr. Diamond, who served in the Navy during the war and was present at the Normandy invasion, also helped prepare the foreign exchange recommendations for the Bretton Woods conference, which established the International Monetary Fund.
 Later, as an adviser to the United Nations and the United States Agency for International Development, Mr. Diamond met with about 100 leaders from around the globe and advised them on taxation, investment and trade policies.
 ''He met with finance ministers, presidents and prime ministers and advised them on how to improve their economies, encourage foreign investment and help their own manufacturers increase their exports,'' said Walter Szykitka, a consultant and former colleague of Mr. Diamond's.
 President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed Mr. Diamond to the French Trade Mission to handle investment and tax problems.
 Mr. Diamond was also director of the economics department of McGraw-Hill International and was the manager for international taxation at two major accounting firms, Deloitte & Touche and KPMG, then called KPMG Peat Marwick.
 ''He was a giant in his field and he will be missed,'' Rudy Hasl, the dean of the Thomas Jefferson School of Law, said in an obituary on the school's Web site. ''He and his wife Dorothy were internationally known through their consultations and their publications.'' 
 ''He was the most extensive researcher, and he often worked at night,'' Dorothy Diamond said. ''More recently, he didn't get going until 11 p.m. or so,'' she added.
 A native of Syracuse, Mr. Diamond graduated from Syracuse University and the American Institute of Banking and did postgraduate work in international finance at Syracuse and New York University.
 In addition to writing scores of books, Walter and Dorothy Diamond wrote more than 100 investment booklets. 
 The couple traveled widely together, visiting Dubai in recent months, said Mrs. Diamond, her husband's only immediate survivor. It was in his travels as a government adviser that he came to know many of the world's leaders of the mid-20th century.
 ''Gandhi was his favorite,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); WORLD WAR II (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (62%)

COMPANY: KPMG LLP (83%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (82%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); US NAVY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (82%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



54 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Indian Media Giant Buys Virgin Radio From Scottish Firm

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
An Indian media conglomerate that owns The Times of India, the world's largest-circulation English newspaper, has agreed to buy Virgin Radio Holdings for $:53.2 million ($105 million) in its first foreign acquisition. 
 While the price tag for the deal, by the firm Bennett, Coleman & Company, is not huge in merger terms, it might be a sign of things to come from India and other emerging markets. 
 Traditional media companies in the United States, Western Europe and Japan have been struggling with falling advertising rates, a gloomy economic environment and competition from the Internet. But newspaper, television and radio companies in emerging markets, flush with cash as their audiences grow, are eager to expand.
 ''The opportunity to acquire a valuable radio asset couldn't have come at a better time,'' said A. P. Parigi, chief executive of a Bennett, Coleman unit, Times Infotainment Media, which made the deal, signed on Friday. Times Infotainment, which handles experimental marketing, film and radio rights, is developing a ''powerful and exciting new brand,'' he said in a statement. 
 The future of radio is about increasing listeners through ''Internet and mobile, and building a strong online community around music tastes,'' said Vineet Jain, managing director of Bennett, Coleman, in an e-mailed response to questions. 
 Virgin Radio reaches 2.7 million listeners a week through AM and FM stations that operate in England, Scotland and Wales, as well as a digital radio station that operates online at virginradio.co.uk. The company owns one of Britain's three commercial radio licenses. 
 Bennett, Coleman is buying the group from the Scottish Media Group, which has recently begun paring assets. Scottish Media bought the radio group from the Ginger Media Group, which was licensed to use the name Virgin by Richard Branson's Virgin Group. 
 Closely held Bennett, Coleman, which operates in India as the Times Group, is led by the family matriarch, Indu Jain, and run by her two sons, Samir and Vineet. When Forbes listed Ms. Jain on its 2006 list of the wealthy (ranking her 15th among India's richest), she sued the magazine on privacy grounds. 
 The deal for Virgin Holdings was made through TIML Golden Square, a subsidiary of Times Infotainment that is based in Britain. 
 The deal brings Bennett, Coleman listeners in Britain, but not the Virgin name. TIML will invest $:15 million in rebranding the stations under a name to be disclosed later, the companies said in a joint release. The Virgin Group may continue to expand its international radio presence, Mr. Branson said. 
 Scottish Media said last year that it planned to spin off the business in a public offering, which analysts said could raise as much as $:100 million. Since then, the appetite for media assets among investors in the West has deteriorated, and the idea of a public offering was shelved.
 Scottish Media's board explored both a sale and an initial public offering, the company said in a statement, and found that ''the prices being offered at the time would not have been in shareholders' interests.'' 
 As of July 31, Bennett, Coleman had a net worth of 34.1 billion rupees ($800 million) and operating margins of 30 percent. In May, Standard & Poor's Indian research arm, Crisil, gave Bennett, Coleman's debt a AAA rating, citing the company's strong market position, ''robust financial risk profile, and sound operating efficiencies.''
 The Times group also owns The Economic Times, India's most-read business paper, and several radio and television stations. 
 High circulation and readership levels make Bennett, Coleman ''better positioned than its peers to attract advertisers for marketing their products on a nation-wide scale,'' Crisil said in May. 
 The result, Crisil said, has been a ''robust increase in advertisement revenues,'' which have registered a compounded annual growth rate of 24 percent over the last four years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); MERGERS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BRANDING (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LICENSES & PERMITS (64%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (58%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%)

COMPANY: VIRGIN GROUP LTD (74%); STV GROUP PLC (53%)

TICKER: STVG (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (58%) INDIA (96%); SCOTLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); WALES (79%); ENGLAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



55 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Rivals Wage Bitter Battle Over Age

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
One came of age in the hardscrabble city of Paterson, a self-made millionaire businessman who entered politics late in life. The other grew up in a small working-class town in South Jersey and entered Congress at 32, when he was soon pegged as a future governor or even president.
 There are many differences in the life trajectories of Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, the pride of Paterson, and Representative Robert E. Andrews, the onetime wunderkind from Camden County.
 But as these two veteran legislators bloody each other while heading into Tuesday's Democratic primary for Mr. Lautenberg's seat, the most heated issue has been the difference in age between Mr. Andrews, 50, and Mr. Lautenberg, 84. 
 Mr. Andrews has made age -- and, by association, competency -- the cornerstone of his upstart challenge with all the subtlety of someone who wonders whether a stranger is deaf by screaming in his ear.
 ''The differences between us, I think, are discernible,'' Mr. Andrews said during a contentious radio debate on Thursday night. ''This is change versus the status quo.''
 For Mr. Lautenberg, however, questions about his age -- he would be 90 at the end of another term -- only divert attention from the argument that as an old-school liberal, he has major policy differences with his more conservative opponent, whom he has branded an eager surrogate for President Bush. 
 Time and again, he has insisted that it is not age that determines a senator's worth, but his or her effectiveness and core beliefs.
 ''Congressman Andrews has done everything he can to assault my age,'' Mr. Lautenberg said during the debate. ''You're there 18 years -- you have nothing to show for it.''
 By all accounts, the race -- which is expected to have a low turnout -- is Mr. Lautenberg's to lose. The presidential primary's move to February has given registered voters far less of a reason to trek to the polls. 
 It is debatable who has gained the advantage. The small number of Democrats who show up will probably be the most motivated -- a plus for Mr. Andrews's followers, primarily in South Jersey, or the most organized, which plays to Mr. Lautenberg's formidable strength among county politicians. A third candidate, Mayor Donald Cresitello of Morristown, best known for his hard-line stance on illegal immigration, is not regarded as a serious contender.
 Given New Jersey's status as a reliably Democratic state, the winner will be heavily favored against whomever emerges in the Republican primary -- former Representative Richard A. Zimmer, State Senator Joseph Pennacchio or Professor Murray Sabrin. 
 Still, the Democratic contest has upended local and even national politics, with most of the establishment siding with Mr. Lautenberg -- not necessarily because they are avid supporters, but because they are angry at Mr. Andrews for breaking a vow not to run.
 The other six Democrats in New Jersey's Congressional delegation have vigorously backed Mr. Lautenberg and essentially shunned Mr. Andrews. Even the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, took an unusual swipe at Mr. Andrews on Thursday, saying in a statement that he had compiled a ''record of shame'' on Iraq and other issues.
 ''I won't sugarcoat it -- United States Representative Robert Andrews has knowingly voted to store the most toxic substance known to man, nuclear waste, near American citizens, while at the same time vying to represent those citizens in our government,'' Mr. Reid said. ''How? By running for Senate and trying to oust my friend, esteemed colleague and champion of progressive values.''
 When asked about Mr. Reid's stinging comments, Michael Murphy, Mr. Andrews's campaign chairman, said: ''It's a little intemperate of Senator Reid. It demonstrates to me that Senator Lautenberg is very concerned, very nervous about the outcome of this election. It appears to me to be an act of desperation.''
 That kind of acidic back-and-forth has typified a campaign that has been on one speed -- overdrive -- since Mr. Andrews unexpectedly jumped into the race in early April.
 Unlike their Republican counterparts, both Democratic candidates have been fairly well financed. As of May 14, Mr. Lautenberg had spent $3 million, with $4.1 million left, while Mr. Andrews had spent $1.4 million, with $1.6 million remaining.
 From the time Mr. Andrews announced his candidacy, Mr. Lautenberg, who is serving his fourth term, has hit back hard. He has repeatedly noted that Mr. Andrews was a co-author of the resolution to use force in Iraq and stood close to President Bush during the White House signing ceremony.
 Mr. Lautenberg also resurrected the specter of Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, noting that Mr. Andrews voted for 59 percent of the Contract With America -- the manifesto that Republicans rallied around in the 1994 Congressional elections -- far more than any other New Jersey Democrat.
 And with the help of political consultants who guided Robert Menendez and Jon S. Corzine to statewide victories in recent years as a senator and as governor, Mr. Lautenberg set up a Web site, www.bushandrews.com, to tie Mr. Andrews to President Bush.
 ''Rob Andrews has played footsie with the G.O.P. while co-authoring the Iraq war resolution, cutting school lunches for needy kids, voting for tax cuts for the wealthiest 1 percent and voting three times against withdrawing our troops from Iraq,'' said Julie Roginsky, a spokeswoman for Mr. Lautenberg.
 Still, Mr. Andrews has not shied away from his record, saying that like most Americans, his opinions about the Iraq war have evolved, and that he introduced a plan 18 months ago to withdraw American troops. He also noted that Mr. Lautenberg, who was not in office during the vote on the Iraq resolution, had indicated that he would have voted similarly.
 He has also accused Mr. Lautenberg of dragging his heels before agreeing to two debates late in the race, and of actually living in New York, where his wife has an apartment on the Upper East Side, rather than in New Jersey, when he is not in Washington. 
 But the Andrews campaign seemed to gain momentum -- or at least attention -- when he rolled out a television commercial reminding potential voters that in Mr. Lautenberg's first race, in 1982, he questioned whether his Republican opponent, former Representative Millicent Fenwick, was too old at 72 to be an effective legislator.
 ''Using not-so-veiled language, Lautenberg actually says it's O.K. for a man to make fun of a woman's age,'' the narrator says in the commercial. ''Now, Lautenberg will be 91 at the end of his term. Ninety-one. Newspapers have said it's time for a change. It's hard when your words come back to haunt you. Isn't it, Mr. Lautenberg?'' 
 Actually, Mr. Lautenberg would be a few weeks short of 91 at the end of a fifth term, in 2014. But the commercial has proved to be prescient, since most newspapers in New Jersey have endorsed Mr. Andrews, essentially saying that the time has come to pass the torch and that he has articulated more specific and more convincing plans on health care, the economy and other issues.
 But Ross K. Baker, a political scientist at Rutgers, said that if Mr. Andrews were elected, New Jersey would slide down on the seniority scale in the Senate, crucial to getting good committee assignments or passing significant legislation.
 ''Those kinds of relationships are very, very difficult to establish, and sometimes it takes years to establish,'' Mr. Baker said. ''Someone who is new -- particularly someone who is on the outs with other members of his state's delegation -- would create some real obstacles. It would result in diminished resources coming back for the state.'' 
 Mr. Murphy, Mr. Andrews's campaign chairman, scoffed at that assessment. ''If you can think outside of the carpe diem and think about where are we going to be over the next 10, 20 years,'' he said, ''the long-term thinking is having a 50-year-old freshman is better than having an 84-year-old sophomore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, 84, left, is being challenged for his seat by Representative Robert E. Andrews, 50. (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); MAYORS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); COUNTIES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); IMMIGRATION (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (90%); ROBERT E ANDREWS (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



56 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2255 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 2, 2008

 BODY:
International
 U.S. SAYS MYANMAR GUILTY 
 Of 'Criminal Neglect'
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Myanmar was guilty of ''criminal neglect'' for blocking large-scale international aid to cyclone victims. It was the strongest dismissal yet by a high-ranking American official. He said that four Navy warships that were stationed in the waters off Myanmar's coast would withdraw because permission to deliver their cargo of emergency supplies was unlikely to come. PAGE A5
 IRAQ DEATH TOLL FALLS TO NEW LOW
 Nineteen Americans died in Iraq in May -- the lowest monthly level of American deaths in Iraq since the war began in 2003. Officials, though, were slow to call the number a milestone, as there have been declines in American casualty rates before, only to be followed by increases. The news came as there was a setback in negotiating a security pact that would set out how long American forces stay in Iraq. PAGE A5 
 A VOTE ON SWISS CITIZENSHIP
 Sixty-four percent of Swiss voters chose to defeat a measure that would have legitimized the practice of allowing secret votes by townspeople on granting citizenship to foreigners in their communities. The vote was seen as an indicator of whether Switzerland was turning away from its more welcoming past as immigrants flood the country. PAGE A11
 HEZBOLLAH RETURNS REMAINS
 Hezbollah, the militant Shiite group based in Lebanon, transferred what it said were the remains of Israeli soldiers killed in the 2006 war in Lebanon. Israel, for its part, sent back a Lebanese man imprisoned in Israel for spying. It was a possible prelude to a prisoner exchange involving the two Israeli soldiers whose capture by Hezbollah set off the monthlong war. PAGE A11
 VIOLENCE MARS MACEDONIA VOTING
 Violence erupted during parliamentary elections in Macedonia, leaving one person dead and nine others wounded, and delivering a huge blow to Macedonia's hopes of joining the European Union, which will depend on the Balkan country's democratic credentials. There were also allegations of election fraud and stolen voting materials. PAGE A8
 A SOMBER CHILDREN'S DAY
 Children's Day is supposed to be a day of celebration in China. But in the aftermath of the powerful earthquake that left more than 69,000 people dead in the country, many parents of children killed by collapsed school buildings used the day to protest and demand answers to why the schools were so poorly built. ''We firmly ask for justice for the dead students,'' their T-shirts read. The official news media, however, largely ignored the gatherings. PAGE A9
 NATIONAL
 LOUISIANA SHOWS INKLINGS
 Of a Sharp Turn Right
 In Louisiana, legislators have unleashed a host of bills on school vouchers, creationism, stem cell restrictions and tax and spending cuts that would warm a Bible-toting conservative's heart. And Bobby Jindal, governor for about five months, is being mentioned for a place on the ticket with Senator John McCain. PAGE A12
 A SEAT UP FOR GRABS
 The race for the Fourth Congressional seat in California is just the sort to inspire speculation. The incumbent, a Republican under fire over his ties to a convicted lobbyist, is not seeking re-election. Neither of the two Republicans seeking to succeed him lives among the people who will be represented. And the man in whom Democrats are placing their hopes to wrest the seat away is a former Republican himself. PAGE A12
 A CHURCH'S STRUGGLE
 The pastor of Trinity United Church of Christ on Chicago's South Side made no mention during Sunday's sermons about the political tumult surrounding the church or about the departure of its most famous member, Senator Barack Obama. But a flier workers slipped inside the church programs addressed the struggle, and outside, members who would speak said they were angry, mostly at the news media. PAGE A14
 METRO
 COUNCIL AWARDS MILLIONS 
 For Questionable Requests
 Every year, the City Council receives a huge wish list of requests from local organizations for capital project money. And in recent years the Council leadership has deemed some $500 million in projects worthy of public money, even projects that are parochial, overly ambitious or sponsored by organizations with spotty financial histories. PAGE B1
 FASHION ADVOCACY
 His suits and shirts are Paul Stuart, his ties Brooks Brothers, his underwear Bloomingdale's. So it is safe to say that when the Council of Fashion Designers of America gives Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg its annual award, it will not be for his fashion sense. Instead, it will be for his advocacy on their behalf, displayed most vividly two years ago when he intervened to keep the city's annual fashion shows from being booted out of Bryant Park. PAGE B1
 AN UNEXPECTED FIGHT
 As Senator Frank R. Lautenberg and Representative Robert E. Andrews head into Tuesday's Democratic primary for Mr. Lautenberg's seat, Mr. Andrews has made age -- and, by association, competency -- the cornerstone of his upstart challenge. ''This is change versus the status quo,'' he says. But Mr. Lautenberg says questions about his age only divert attention from policy differences with his more conservative opponent, whom he has branded an eager surrogate for President Bush. PAGE B1
 INSPECTIONS TO SLOW CONSTRUCTION
 The construction of several large buildings in Manhattan is likely to be delayed for days, if not weeks, as city officials determine the safety of the tower cranes being used at those sites, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said. ''There are too many accidents, and we're going to see if we can do more to make sure everything is safe,'' he said, two days after a crane crashed into a 23-story apartment building, killing two workers. In March, seven people were killed when a crane collapsed. PAGE B3
 BUSINESS
 A GLOBAL MEDIA COMPANY 
 Takes a Less Sexy Approach
 Hartmut Ostrowski, chief executive of Bertelsmann, knows he is viewed by critics inside and outside the company as an agent of retreat: pulling Bertelsmann away from the dazzle of recording stars like Alicia Keys to the humdrum world of offset printing and call centers. He flatly rejects that thesis, declaring that Bertelsmann will remain a player in media and in the United States. PAGE C1
 DEVIL IN CARBON CAP DETAILS
 Often-tense discussions have been taking place among some of the most powerful corporate leaders in America about proposals for a national policy to limit carbon emissions. What unites the groups is a desire to deal with climate change. What divides them is that dealing with climate change will almost certainly hurt some industries and enrich others, with billions of dollars at stake. PAGE C1
 COMPETING WITH FACEBOOK
 Much of the appeal of college alumni magazines is in the class notes, those updates on who got married, had a baby or landed a job you wish you had. But as younger alumni are increasingly exchanging information in real time on Facebook and MySpace, some magazines are rethinking how to use their space. PAGE C6
 THE YOUTUBE CANDIDATE
 Steve Novick came close to winning the Democratic Senate nomination in Oregon with an unusual campaign, which included a YouTube video in which he uses the hook he has for a left hand to casually open a beer while talking. And can a Garfield comic strip work without Garfield? Media Talk. PAGE C6
 WHAT TIME IS AL GORE'S SHOW ON?
 Discovery Communications will roll out Planet Green on Wednesday, which it promotes as the first 24-hour channel dedicated to eco-friendly living. It will replace the Discovery Home Channel in more than 50 million homes, Discovery being confident that it can attract more viewers with green-themed programming. But some of Planet Green's advertisers could raise eyebrows. General Motors, maker of the Hummer, is the ''exclusive automobile sponsor.'' 
 PAGE C8
 A Bear Stearns Refugee C5
 Virgin Radio Sold C7
 Financier Strikes D.W.I. Deal C6 
 SPORTS
 LESSONS FROM OTHER SPORTS
 Can Translate Into Golf
 The notion that one sport is incompatible with another used to be what passed for common wisdom. Now that sort of thinking falls into the category of old wives tales. ''I've been hearing that the baseball swing is counterproductive to the golf swing all my life, and that's just so wrong it's unbelievable,'' said Butch Harmon, perhaps the country's best-known golf teacher. PAGE D5
 CAN THE CUBS DO IT?
 In recent years the Red Sox, White Sox and Angels have ended championship droughts. And now, 100 years after their last World Series championship, the Cubs have the best record, 36-21, in the major leagues, and are on a seven-game winning streak. Is that good? ''Terrible signs are pointing toward disillusionment,'' George Vecsey writes in Sports of The Times. PAGE D7 
 THE EUROPEAN OPEN
 Geographical shifts in power are not uncommon in an individual sport like tennis. But the depth of the European presence at the French Open this year is unprecedented. Of the players in the fourth round of singles, 30 of 32 were European, including all 16 women, which is a first at any Grand Slam event since the Open era began in 1968. PAGE D8
 OBITUARIES
 LOUISE FIROUZ, 74
 An American-born horse breeder who while roaming a mountain range in Iran in 1965 discovered a pony-size Caspian horse, from a breed that had long been thought extinct. PAGE A17
 YOSEF LAPID, 76
 A former Israeli justice minister, journalist and outspoken critic of Israel's Orthodox religious establishment, he was one of Israel's most prominent journalists and television personalities, renowned for his sharp tongue, acerbic pen and dry wit. PAGE A17
 WALTER H. DIAMOND, 95
 An expert on international taxation, trade and economics, he advised world leaders and wrote more than 80 books. He had a wide-ranging career in academia, the private sector and government, becoming involved in international affairs as early as World War II. PAGE A17
 ARTS
 ELECTRONIC BOOKS STIR 
 Worries for Publishers
 The electronic book was a big topic of conversation at BookExpo America, the publishing and bookselling industry's annual trade show that just ended in Los Angeles. Kindle, Amazon's electronic reader, created much of the excitement, but there were worries about Amazon's still-growing power as a bookseller and fears that Amazon will begin using the Kindle's popularity as a lever to demand that publishers cut prices. PAGE E1 
 STILL HOLDING ON
 New CDs reviewed this week include works by Journey, Jewel, Weezer and the Pinker Tones. Journey is of course still without Steve Perry; the latest lead singer is Arnel Pineda, a 40-year-old from the Philippines said to sound like Mr. Perry. And the album, Ben Ratliff writes, ''is, actually, good. Mr. Pineda, who sings hard and with the appropriate vulnerability, gives it some distinction. Beyond that, the band seems to have taken rock vitamins: it feels alive.'' PAGE E1
 STILL ON THE EDGE
 Two weeks into his band's summer reunion tour, Scott Weiland, the troubled lead singer of Stone Temple Pilots, offered these words Saturday night to the crowd at the PNC Bank Arts Center in New Jersey: ''Sometimes you make crazy choices.'' ''And judging by Saturday's show,'' Nate Chinen writes in his review, ''the decision to tour right now may be one of them.'' PAGE E2 
 BETWEEN FORMALISM AND ANARCHY
 In another context, it might even be considered greedy: not content with being half of the Grammy-winning White Stripes, Jack White makes up one-quarter of the Raconteurs, which just ended a sold-out, three-night stand at Terminal 5 in Manhattan. ''Friday's show felt uncomfortably oversold, and Terminal 5 is a hall with sound and sight problems,'' Ben Ratliff writes in his review, ''but Mr. White pretty much made you forget the irritations.'' PAGE E5 
 BLURRING THE BOUNDARIES
 This weekend's 12 hours of the Bang on a Can Marathon, in the Winter Garden of the World Financial Center, produced the unlikely (a mosh pit), the polarizing (the guitarist Marnie Stern blissfully strumming raucous chords) and the appealing (the violinist Owen Pallett) along with new iterations of familiar themes, Steve Smith writes in his review. PAGE E3 
 Dances and Song B3 
 Grooming Tomorrow's Players B5 
 Tough Guy at the Border B1 
 EDITORIAL
 ROVE TALKS, BUT DOESN'T ANSWER
 In a recent television appearance, Karl Rove was asked if he had a role in the Justice Department's decision to prosecute Don Siegelman, a former Democratic governor of Alabama. Mr. Rove talked a lot but didn't answer the question. PAGE A18
 REPAIRING A JUSTICE SYSTEM
 Albany is not dealing with three big problems that are dragging the state's judicial system into crisis. PAGE A18
 CHILDHOOD OBESITY NUMBERS
 It is a sad commentary on the health of American youngsters that we are cheering a leveling-off of childhood obesity rates. PAGE A20
 OP-ED
 WILLIAM KRISTOL
 Commencement speeches are hard. You can't help but admire those who can pull them off, as Barack Obama did at Wesleyan University. But his speech was also revealing about his view of himself and of public service. PAGE A19
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 The emerging conventional wisdom seems to be that the Fed has been fighting the wrong enemy: inflation, not financial collapse, is the real threat. And to head off that threat, the critics say, the Fed has to reverse course and raise interest rates -- never mind the risks of recession. But the new conventional wisdom is all wrong. We're not watching a rerun of that 70's show and the misguided belief that we are could do a lot of harm. PAGE A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); CHILDREN (85%); IMMIGRATION (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (72%); PARENTS (72%); CITIZENSHIP (69%); RELIGION (69%); CONSERVATISM (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (62%); ELECTION FRAUD (62%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%); CREATIONISM (60%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (82%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (73%); BOBBY JINDAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); MYANMAR (95%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); LEBANON (92%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (68%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



57 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: What Obama Left Out

BYLINE: By WILLIAM KRISTOL

 BODY:
Commencement speeches are hard.
 I gave one at a college about seven years ago. I labored over it, consulting orations from years past, writing and rewriting drafts. I ended up with remarks that struck me -- even while I delivered them -- as banal and platitudinous. Luckily, no one seemed to be paying much attention -- and at least I kept it short. I don't think I did too much damage to the enjoyment of the day by the graduating students and their parents.
 Since then, whenever I look at the annual roundup of commencement addresses, I can't help but admire those who can pull off this mode of speechifying. 
 Barack Obama, you won't be surprised to learn, can pull it off. He spoke on the Sunday of Memorial Day weekend at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., pinch-hitting for Senator Ted Kennedy, on the theme of service to our country. The speech was skillfully crafted and well delivered, the grace notes were graceful, and the exhortations to public service seemed heartfelt but not cloying.
 The speech was a success. It's also revealing -- about Obama's view of himself and of public service.
 Obama chooses to introduce the notion of public service from an autobiographical point of view. In college, he explains, ''I began to notice a world beyond myself.'' So while his friends were seeking jobs on Wall Street, he applied for jobs as a grass-roots activist. And one day, a group of churches in Chicago offered him a job as a community organizer for ''$12,000 a year plus $2,000 for an old, beat-up car.''
 ''And I said yes.''
 Those four words form their own paragraph in the prepared text. Obama wants us to be impressed by the drama of his spurning the big bucks, by his bold acceptance of such a pittance of money in order that he could do good.
 Leave aside the fact that two years elapsed between Obama's graduation from Columbia in 1983 and his heading off to Chicago in 1985. Dramatic foreshortening is, after all, sometimes necessary. And leave aside whether $14,000 in 1985 was really such a shockingly low salary for someone recently out of college -- in inflation-adjusted dollars, it's about what we pay entry-level editorial assistants today at The Weekly Standard.
 Obama's point is that he went on to do good in Chicago -- and that the college graduates to whom he's speaking should follow in his exemplary footsteps. Of course, most politicians do admire themselves and their excellent careers. So perhaps one shouldn't make too much of Obama's sin of self-regard.
 More striking is Obama's sin of omission. In the rest of the speech, he goes on to detail -- at some length -- the ''so many ways to serve'' that are available ''at this defining moment in our history.'' There's the Peace Corps, there's renewable energy, there's education, there's poverty -- there are all kinds of causes you can take up ''should you take the path of service.'' 
 But there's one obvious path of service Obama doesn't recommend -- or even mention: military service. He does mention war twice: ''At a time of war, we need you to work for peace.'' And, we face ''big challenges like war and recession.'' But there's nothing about serving your country in uniform.
 It can't be that the possibility of military service as an admirable form of public service didn't occur to Obama. Only the day before, Obama had been squabbling with John McCain about veterans' benefits. He said then, ''Obviously I revere our soldiers and want to make sure they are being treated with honor and respect.''
 And the day after the Wesleyan commencement, Obama was in New Mexico, where he read an eloquent and appropriate Memorial Day tribute to our fallen soldiers.
 But at an elite Northeastern college campus, Obama obviously felt no need to disturb the placid atmosphere of easy self-congratulation. He felt no need to remind students of a different kind of public service -- one that entails more risks than community organizing. He felt no need to tell the graduating seniors in the lovely groves of Middletown that they should be grateful to their peers who were far away facing dangers on behalf of their country
 Nor did Obama choose to mention all those college graduates who are now entering the military, either for a tour of duty or as a career, in order to serve their country. He certainly felt no impulse to wonder whether the nation wouldn't be better off if R.O.T.C. were more widely and easily available on elite college campuses.
 Obama failed to challenge -- even gently -- what he must have assumed would be the prejudices of much of his audience and indulged in a soft patriotism of low expectations.
 Was this a public service? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TED KENNEDY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008



58 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Fast Cars, Full Tanks

BYLINE: By JOHN BRANCH

DATELINE: NEW EGYPT, N.J. 

 BODY:
The cost of high-octane fuel for the racecars is up to $8.25 a gallon. And that is not the worst of it.
 The truck-and-trailer rigs that log long miles to haul the cars to tracks generally have miles-to-the-gallon averages in the single digits. And with diesel costing roughly $5 a gallon, about double what it was a year ago, the escalating price of fuel is altering the already skimpy economics of lower-tier racing, the type that takes place on the half-mile dirt oval at New Egypt Speedway and at most tracks across the country.
 On Saturday night, 134 racecars in five classifications -- from relatively glamorous modifieds to the scratch-and-dent cars of outlaw stocks -- arrived to test their mettle, and metal, against the others.
 But they also compete against their own budgets, testing their appetite and ability to pour more money into their tanks, fueling a sport that relies, like few others, on gas-powered propulsion. 
 ''The price of fuel is definitely banging on our door,'' said Butch Zipp, a midget-car owner from Bridgeport, Pa. ''I mean, it's making it a little bit tougher, and you cut corners where you've got to cut corners.''
 Gas costs are less an issue for teams on the big-time circuits, like Nascar's Sprint Cup series, because they generally have fuel provided for their racecars and have big-ticket sponsorship deals to help offset travel expenses. 
 But at a place like New Egypt in central New Jersey, the gas-price issue reverberates to all corners, including the track's offices. There is some debate in the industry about whether high gas prices and a bleak economy help or hurt attendance at smaller tracks. Maybe people will forgo more expensive and elaborate entertainment options, the hope goes, and come to the track. It is too early in the season, which began in April, to know for sure.
 But there is no argument about what gas prices are doing to the racers themselves. The pit areas adjacent to the track began filling up with trucks and trailers when the gates opened at 3 p.m. on Saturday, a few hours before the races began. 
 Harry Schaefer dragged his No. 48 super stock racecar in on an open trailer behind his pickup. A truck driver from Carteret, N.J., about 60 miles away, Schaefer comes to New Egypt every Saturday night. He wore a gray goatee and a black cap with a red 48 on it, and if he won his race, he would receive $500. 
 Nearby, Frank Cozze of Wind Gap, Pa., arrived after a two-and-a-half-hour drive in his customized Haulmark motorcoach. It has a kitchen and enough room to sleep his crew of five. It pulled a 35-foot enclosed trailer with two racecars inside. Cozze races his modified car here every Saturday, and spends the rest of each week traveling to other races in the region. ''Cozze'' T-shirts are available at the concession stand, and first place in his race was worth $2,500.
 Schaefer and Cozze would seem to have little in common, other than a thing for speed. Now each faces the same rough track: trying to maneuver through unprecedented fuel costs and find other corners of their worlds to save a few dollars.
 ''We don't super-size anymore,'' Schaefer said with a smile. ''We use Styrofoam plates instead of china. But we're here.''
 A few minutes later, Cozze sat outside his rig. A generator hummed. He pondered how higher gas prices were forcing him to scale back, too.
 ''Who knows how long we're going to keep it,'' he said, nodding to the motor home. ''Hopefully we can survive through the year with it, but I've kind of got a feeling we're going to be downsizing a little bit.''
 Last year, Cozze pulled a 52-foot trailer, big enough for four cars, but decided it was not economical. ''We kind of saw the gas thing coming,'' he said. 
 Cozze usually races close to 100 times a year. He will probably race 60 times this year, choosing tracks on the basis of proximity and payouts. 
 ''To tell you the truth, we've really had to do a lot of sit down and think about how we're going to do this, and what races we're going to be cutting out,'' Cozze said.
 Like others, he nearly did not come on Saturday because bands of thunderstorms throughout the day threatened the night's schedule. He did not want to drive all that way if there was no race -- and no payout. 
 The arithmetic of the racing business is already performed mostly with negative numbers. Gas prices are making it worse. Bryan Kobylarz, from Birdsboro, Pa., is a team manager of two midget cars that race as part of a regional tour that stopped at New Egypt on Saturday. A year ago, fuel costs accounted for about 15 percent of Kobylarz's budget. Now it is about 25 percent, he said, and climbing.
 It took about 40 gallons of diesel to get his cars to and from the track in his 40-foot trailer. His midget cars run on methanol, which cost $5.10 per gallon at the track pump Saturday. Up to 1,000 gallons of four types of race fuel is sold on Saturday nights. Kobylarz buys his elsewhere in 55-gallon drums for $206 (a little less than $4 a gallon), but he said the price of the drums had risen about $80 since last year.
 ''Basically, you have to finish in the top three to come out with a positive cash flow,'' he said. In an average week, 28 midget cars enter the race. 
 The majority of racers at New Egypt are part of the weekly schedule. They have full-time jobs and tinker with their cars in their off hours. They have no substantial sponsorships. They spend their Saturdays at the track, toiling in the pits, waiting for their chance to race 20 laps in front of a few thousand fans, hoping to emerge with some points in the standings and a car free of major damage.
 Gas prices are altering the dynamics. Schaefer spends about $120 in gas just to pull the trailer to and from the track each week. He pays $25 for each crew member to enter the gate. At the beginning of the season, he paid $100 for a yearlong pit pass. 
 Ten gallons of 110-octane race fuel cost $82.50 on Saturday. Add in tolls, food, tires, parts and labor (much of it unbilled in a do-it-yourself sport) and Schaefer is left to wonder if there is a point when gas prices will keep him home.
 ''Pretty high to give up the car,'' Schaefer said. ''What are you going to do with a $20,000 car? Let it sit again? It's hard. It's a big decision -- whether to let it sit and do nothing, or to work other jobs, part-time jobs, and do the best we can to get down here.''
 The thunderstorms turned the track to mud on Saturday afternoon. That pushed back the start of the races by 90 minutes. The uncertain weather left the bleachers mostly empty. 
 The sky cleared for several hours of racing, and the only threat seemed to be an 11:15 p.m. curfew mandated by the town. But at 11, rain sprinkled. Minutes later, it fell in a deluge, punctuated by lightning.
 Cozze's modified race was stopped midway through, to be continued later. And the final two races of the night, including the super stocks, were postponed until another time. 
 Cozze was headed to the next race, without a payout. Schaefer was left to haul his super-stock car back north to Carteret. It would cost him about $60 in gas just to return home from a race he never ran.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, New Egypt Speedway in New Jersey. At right, Rich Smith with Vern McLaughlin, right. The driver Billy Pauch, below left. Frank Cozze, below right, with his motorcoach and racecar trailer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
Most racers at a track like New Egypt Speedway are not supported by large sponsors
 they do their own work on their cars. Bryan Kobylarz, left, who manages a midget-car racing team, said a quarter of his budget was reserved for fuel. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); AUTO RACING (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); BUDGETS (75%); NASCAR RACING (73%); SPONSORSHIP (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



59 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2338 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 3, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 SYRIA TO ALLOW INSPECTORS
 To Visit Reputed Nuclear Site
 Syria said it would let U.N. nuclear inspectors visit the site of a suspected reactor that Israeli warplanes bombed last September. Syria has denied charges made by American intelligence officials that it was surreptitiously developing a nuclear reactor. However it cleaned the site of rubble late last year and erected a new building where the destroyed one had been, which would make finding clues more difficult. PAGE A6
 RELIEF GROUPS SLOWED IN MYANMAR
 Relief workers in Myanmar said they were still having a difficult time getting to the hundreds of thousands of survivors of a powerful cyclone that hit the country a month ago, despite promises from the country's military leader that they would have access to areas that were hardest hit. The outgoing U.N. high commissioner for human rights criticized the international response to the disaster. ''The obstruction to the deployment of such assistance illustrates the invidious effects of longstanding international tolerance for human rights violations,'' she said. PAGE A8 
 TAKE OUR LAND. PLEASE.
 Two towns on Japan's northernmost island, Hokkaido, are trying to stave off a decline in population due to migration to cities and old age. Their strategy? Offer free land, a policy that worked for the island in the 19th century. But the town is so far east of Tokyo that the sun rises at 3:30 a.m., and temperatures in the winter regularly dip to minus 4 degrees. ''Will they really come here?'' a resident asked incredulously. PAGE A8
 THINGS TO NOT DO IN CHINA
 Do not bring printed materials critical of the country. Do not plan any rallies. Do not think your tickets to an Olympic event guarantees you a visa. Those are answers to 57 wide-ranging questions (sample: ''After eating or drinking at restaurants or hotels, if you have diarrhea or vomiting symptoms, how do you lodge a complaint?'') that are part of a document that will be given to foreign visitors for the Games this summer. PAGE A6 
 MUGABE'S ROME VISIT CRITICIZED
 A decision by President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe to attend a United Nations food conference in Rome angered officials from other countries. Mr. Mugabe, who skirted international travel restrictions, is still enmeshed in a bitter campaign with his country's chief opposition party following elections several months ago. The U.N. body that convened the gathering, brushed off the criticism, saying Mugabe's presence ''was not a scandal.'' PAGE A11
 NATIONAL
 CHILDREN SEIZED IN TEXAS RAID
 Begin Returning Home
 There were tears as more than 460 children who were taken by state authorities in Texas as part of an investigation of sex abuse in a polygamist community began returning home. Some of the tears were joy at the reunification with their families. Others were bittersweet and came from their temporary caretakers who were saying goodbye. But state officials said the investigation was far from being resolved. PAGE A14 
 OBAMA CAREFULLY SHIFTS FOCUS
 Senator Barack Obama has begun to tailor his stump speeches toward critiques of Senator John McCain, which is a curious pirouette. He has to deliver his message of being past divisive politics by not (obviously) dipping into a partisan well. And for all his soaring, rousing oratory, he remains emotionally buttoned-up. PAGE A18 
 STUDY OF STATE'S HEALTH CARE LAW
 The first major study of a Massachusetts law that required mandatory health coverage in the state found that the state reduced the number of its uninsured adults by half. The study also found that the share of residents receiving insurance through their employers increased in Massachusetts, which runs against the national trend. PAGE A14 
 A DEBATE OVER HARVARD'S WEALTH
 Harvard is projected to have an endowment of around $100 billion in 10 years. A group called Harvard Students for Social Action is trying to prod the university to use its considerable wealth to help universities in the developing world, part of a growing debate over whether wealthy universities use their endowments for charitable purposes. PAGE A17 
 MCCAIN BLASTS OBAMA
 Senator John McCain continued to pitch his national security message, this time before Jewish leaders. In his speech to American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the influential pro-Israel lobby, he charged that Senator Barack Obama's policies towards Iraq and Iran would create chaos in the region and endanger the United States and Israel. PAGE A18 
 Justices Narrow Laundering Law A15 Kennedy Surgery 'Successful' A14 
 Business
 WACHOVIA OUST CHIEF EXECUTIVE
 Amid Credit Troubles
 The Wachovia Corporation is one of the nation's biggest banks, thanks in large part to the work of G. Kennedy Thompson. His 32 years at the company came to an end as he was ousted from his post as chief executive, leaving the bank with an uncertain future and faces growing credit problems. The ouster came the same day Washington Mutual stripped its chairman of its title. PAGE C1 
 AIRLINES 'DESPERATE' OUTLOOK
 The International Air Transport Association sharply lowered its industry forecast, saying it expected a collective lost of at least $2.3 billion for the year after previously forecasting a profit of $4.5 billion in March. The association asked goverments to roll back regulations they say damage the industry at a time when many carriers are in dire straits. PAGE C4 
 EURO FACES TOUGH TEST
 The euro keeps plugging along in the shaky global marketplace, performing strongly against other currencies, including the dollar. So it's easy to forget that the feat -- uniting a host of nations under a common currency -- was once considered a huge gamble. But with some of the countries that use it grappling with inflation and other problems, the euro's greatest challenge may still lay ahead. PAGE C3 
 THE BOUTIQUE BANDWAGON
 Big hotel chains have thrown their hats into the boutique hotel market, and their involvement is only likely to increase. The boutique locations -- which diverge from uniformity to appeal to a certain demographic -- often boast trendy bars that attract guests and locals. And they're doing brisk business. ''To the extent that there is a hotel that seems really right for you, you will pay a premium,'' one analyst said. PAGE C6 
 METRO 
 LAWMAKERS IMPOSED $500 MILLION
 In Hidden Pension Costs on City
 An actuary who was paid by public employee unions and yet relied upon by the State Legislature to determine the cost of pension bills underestimated their ultimate cost by at least $500 million, according to a review of New York City documents and other records. The episode has heightened the Legislature's reputation for being cozy with labor and for lavishing benefits on public employee unions. ''What is increasingly clear is that the city has been saddled with tens of millions of dollars in hidden costs due to Albany's broken process,'' said a spokesman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. PAGE B1 
 TWAIN HOUSE IN DANGER OF CLOSING
 In a reversal of fortune that seems ripped from the pages of Mark Twain's classic ''The Prince and the Pauper,'' the fanciful, three-story confection that was built in Hartford by Twain in 1874 at the height of his success may be forced to close because it is running out of money. Unless salvation unexpectedly walks through the door, cash will run out in three to four weeks. PAGE B1 
 ARTS
 NEIL LABUTE TAKES ON
 The Beauty Myth
 ''Reasons to Be Pretty,'' the new play by Neil LaBute at the Lucille Lortel Theater, is the final installment of a trilogy devoted to the contemporary obsession with physical appearance. But where Mr. LaBute's earlier works are shaped by a glaring judgmental vision of the ways men and women use and hurt one another, ''Reasons to Be Pretty'' is questioning, Ben Brantley writes. And the cast members respond to Mr. LaBute's newly found empathy with some of the most sensitively shaded performances in town. PAGE E1 
 YARD SALE YIELDS WEEGEE TROVE
 When two Indiana women bought a zebra-print trunk at a yard sale in Kentucky, they considered throwing its contents -- a stack of 62 old letters and 210 black-and-white photographic prints -- away. But one of the women took them instead to a rare-documents dealer, and now the Indianapolis Museum of Art plans to announce it has acquired what turned out to be a trove of work and correspondence by Weegee, the crepuscular, stogie-smoking New York photographer. PAGE E1 
 REVERSE ROLLOUT FOR INDIE FILM
 Sony Pictures Classics plans to open its little comic thriller ''Baghead'' in Austin, Tex., where its writer-directors, the brothers Mark and Jay Duplass, got their careers in gear. The film will probably then move on to Dallas, Houston or, maybe, Portland, Ore. -- cities that, in the words of Tom Bernard, the co-president of Sony Pictures Classics, ''tend to connect with what's new and different.'' Only then, if all goes well, will ''Baghead'' finally make it to Manhattan and West Los Angeles, where independent film are supposed to be discovered by sophisticated viewers who live on the culture's cutting edge. Or used to. PAGE E1 
 CREATING JACK REACHER
 Ever wonder what Lee Child, the guy who created Jack Reacher, the girl-magnet cop who stars in a hugely popular and critically praised series of thrillers, looks like? Well, he's exactly as tall as Reacher, but he's about 75 pounds lighter. You cannot picture the rail-thin, somewhat professorial ex-Brit head-butting anyone, or breaking someone's nose with his elbow. (Reacher does both in ''Nothing to Lose,'' the latest installment in the series.) PAGE E1 
 THE BEAT THAT WILL GO ON
 Bo Diddley, who died on Monday, understood the power of suggesting the past and the future at the same time, combining country wisdom and space-age innovation. The essence of his art can be found on the rock 'n' roll records he made between 1955 and 1962, before the Beatles and the Rolling Stones, who worshiped him, commercially buried him. An appraisal of Bo Diddley's impact on rock. PAGE E1 
 Obituaries
 ANNE D'HARNONCOURT, 64
 In 1982, she became the only woman to head a museum with an annual budget of more than $25 million when she took over the Philadelphia Museum of Art. She was credited with revitalizing the museum without compromising the intellectual standards of its exhibitions. PAGE B8
 WILLIAM P. FORD, 72
 After his sister and three other American churchwomen were murdered in El Salvador's civil war in the 1980s, he left his job as a Wall Street lawyer and spent over 20 years trying to bring high-ranking military officials from El Salvador to justice. PAGE B8
 Sports
 BASEBALL FOLLOWS SELIG'S LEAD ON CANCER
 Major League Baseball's decision to donate $10 million to cancer research is a direct result of Commissioner Bud Selig's own battle with cancer, which was discovered during a routine doctor's visit in 2004. ''I was in shock,'' Mr. Selig said the other day. ''I thought about the things I had been worrying about, like payrolls. I started thinking, 'I ought to live my life a little.' '' PAGE D1 VERY EXPENSIVE LEFT TURNS
 If you think it's expensive to fill up your car, be happy you're not a racecar driver. The cost of high-octane fuel for racecars is up to $8.25 a gallon, and the rigs that haul the cars to racetracks, never paragons of fuel efficiency, are guzzling their diesel at the cost of about $5 a gallon, pinching the pockets of those participating in the lower-tier racing. PAGE D1 
 Science Times
 BUT WHAT ABOUT
 Our Flying Cars?
 Ray Kurzweil is no ordinary sci-fi fantasist. He's a futurist, and one with a track record that has led many scientists to take him very seriously. So what does he see in humanity's future? Pills that will let you eat without gaining weight, much longer life spans, and a world that runs entirely on clean energy. And he thinks that within the next 20 years, we'll be adding computers to our brains. PAGE F1 
 BLINDING NEW YORK WITH SCIENCE
 Last Friday, a line snaked around a block in downtown Manhattan for a much-anticipated event. Some people were turned away. No, it wasn't the premiere of ''Sex and the City,'' but a discussion of quantum physics that was part of the World Science Festival. There were spirited panel discussions led by Alan Alda and Charlie Rose, flashy graphics everywhere, and almost too many things to sample. Every event sold out, and Dennis Overbye writes that it was the beginning of a ''new cultural'' institution in the city. PAGE F3 
 A CLOSER LOOK AT EARLY CANCER
 Biopsies of lymph nodes are a pretty accurate way to determine whether a patient has cancer, and the procedures have become more sophisticated and sensitive. ''We can pick up things that we could never pick up before,'' an oncologist said. ''But do we need to pick them up?'' The question -- what to do with a little bit of cancer -- has some doctors worried that many patients will be overtreated. PAGE F1 
 Editorial
 THE GREAT IMMIGRATION PANIC
 A nation of immigrants is holding another nation of immigrants in bondage, exploiting its labor while ignoring the suffering. Someday, the country will recognize that the true cost of the war on illegal immigration is to our national identity. PAGE A22
 BANKS AND STUDENT LOANS
 The credit crunch provides new evidence that students need to be able to take out college loans directly from the government through their schools. PAGE A22
 HORSE RACING AND STEROIDS
 When Big Brown runs the Belmont Stakes, the horse will be running on steroids. Knowing that, Saturday's race -- and Big Brown's run for history -- will look a little less inspiring. PAGE A22
 OP-ED
 DAVID BROOKS
 Neither the campaign of Barack Obama nor John McCain is planning a major pivot for the fall. Both are confident they have a strategy for victory. So my role today is Dr. Doom -- to break through unmerited confidence and raise the anxiety level in both camps. PAGE A23
 BOB HERBERT
 The Democrats try to recover from their self-inflicted wounds. PAGE A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); OLYMPICS (65%); POLITICS (65%); RESTAURANTS (62%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (77%) HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (79%) SYRIA (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MYANMAR (92%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



60 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2699 words

HEADLINE: Dark, Perhaps Forever

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

DATELINE: BALTIMORE 

 BODY:
Mario Livio tossed his car keys in the air.
 They rose ever more slowly, paused, shining, at the top of their arc, and then in accordance with everything our Galilean ape brains have ever learned to expect, crashed back down into his hand.
 That was the whole problem, explained Dr. Livio, a theorist at the Space Telescope Science Institute here on the Johns Hopkins campus.
 A decade ago, astronomers discovered that what is true for your car keys is not true for the galaxies. Having been impelled apart by the force of the Big Bang, the galaxies, in defiance of cosmic gravity, are picking up speed on a dash toward eternity. If they were keys, they would be shooting for the ceiling.
 ''That is how shocking this was,'' Dr. Livio said. 
 It is still shocking. Although cosmologists have adopted a cute name, dark energy, for whatever is driving this apparently antigravitational behavior on the part of the universe, nobody claims to understand why it is happening, or its implications for the future of the universe and of the life within it, despite thousands of learned papers, scores of conferences and millions of dollars' worth of telescope time. It has led some cosmologists to the verge of abandoning their fondest dream: a theory that can account for the universe and everything about it in a single breath.
 ''The discovery of dark energy has greatly changed how we think about the laws of nature,'' said Edward Witten, a theorist at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J.
 This fall, NASA and the Department of Energy plan to invite proposals for a $600 million satellite mission devoted to dark energy. But some scientists fear that might not be enough. When astronomers and physicists gathered at the Space Telescope Science Institute recently to take stock of the revolution, their despair of getting to the bottom of the dark energy mystery anytime soon, if ever, was palpable, even as they anticipate a flood of new data from the sky in coming years. When it came time for one physicist to discuss new ideas about dark energy, he showed a blank screen.
 The institute's director, Matt Mountain, said that dark energy had given this generation of astronomers a rare opportunity, and he admonished them to use it wisely.
 ''We are placing a large bet,'' Dr. Mountain said, ''using our credibility as collateral, that we as a community know what we are doing.''
 But many stressed that it was going to be a long march with no clear end in sight. Lawrence Krauss of Case Western Reserve University told them, ''In spite of the fact that you are liable to spend the rest of your lives measuring stuff that won't tell us what we want to know, you should keep doing it.''
 Scuffling in the Dark
 Through myriad techniques and observations, cosmologists have recently arrived, after decades of strife, at a robust but dark consensus regarding a cosmos in which stars and galaxies, as well as the humans who gawk at them, amount to barely more than a disputatious froth. It was born 13.7 billion years ago in the Big Bang. By weight it is 4 percent atoms and 22 percent so-called dark matter of unknown identity -- perhaps elementary particles that will be discovered at the Large Hadron Collider starting up outside Geneva this year. That leaves 74 percent for the weight of whatever began causing the cosmos to accelerate about five billion years ago.
 As far as astronomers can tell, there is no relation between dark matter, the particles, and dark energy other than the name, but you never know. Some physicists are even willing to burn down their old sainted Einstein and revise his theory of gravity, general relativity, to make the cosmic discrepancies go away. There is in fact a simple explanation for the dark energy, Dr. Witten pointed out, one whose tangled history goes all the way back to Einstein, but it is also the most troubling.
 ''Dark energy has the somewhat unusual property that it was embarrassing before it was discovered,'' he said.
 In 1917, Einstein invented a fudge factor known as the cosmological constant, a sort of cosmic repulsion to balance gravity and keep the universe in balance. He abandoned his constant when the universe was discovered to be expanding, but quantum physics resurrected it by showing that empty space should be foaming with energy that had the properties of Einstein's constant.
 Alas, all attempts to calculate the amount of this energy come up with an unrealistically huge number, enough energy to blow away the contents of the cosmos like leaves in a storm before stars or galaxies could form. Nothing could live there.
 Dr. Witten and other physicists used to think this conundrum ''would somehow go away.'' Something was missing in physicists' understanding of physics, the logic went. The constant was really zero for deep reasons that, when revealed, would lead physicists closer to an understanding of what they call ''the vacuum,'' that is to say, the structure of reality.
 ''It seems now that the answer is not really zero,'' Dr. Witten said. 
 Requiem for a Dream
 Einstein's constant is the most economical explanation for dark energy, Dr. Witten said. The others, involving new force fields or tinkering with Einstein's gravity, are hard to make work and raise more questions than they answer. But if dark energy is the cosmological constant, it is smaller than predicted by a shocking factor of 1060. No fundamental principles can explain why Einstein's constant, or any physical parameter, could be so small without being zero, Dr. Witten said. Zero can be a fundamental number, he said, but not a 1 with 59 zeroes between it and the decimal point. 
 As a result, he said, maybe physicists should give up trying to explain that number and look instead for a theory that generates all kinds of universes, a so-called multiverse. 
 That idea has been given mathematical form by string theory, which portrays the constituents of nature as tiny wriggling strings, an elegant idea that in principle explains all the forces of nature but in practice leads to at least 10500 potential universes.
 This maze was an embarrassment for string theory. As Dr. Witten, one of the leaders of the field, said, ''I am tempted to say this was an embarrassment of my youth.'' 
 ''Who needs that mess?'' he recalled thinking. ''There is just one world we live in.'' 
 Now, Dr. Witten allowed, dark energy might have transformed this fecundity from a vice into a virtue, a way to generate universes where you can find any cosmological constant you want. We just live in one where life is possible, just as fish only live in water.
 ''This interpretation of string theory might be close to the truth,'' Dr. Witten said. But that truth comes at a cost. 
 ''Before the discovery of the dark energy, quantum physicists tended to assume that the 'vacuum' we live in has some deep meaning that reflects nature's deepest secrets,'' Dr. Witten said. But if ours is only one of a zillion in a haystack, there is nothing special about it, no secret to be found.
 It could still turn out that dark energy is some as-yet-undiscovered ''fifth force,'' say, or the result of not understanding gravity. In that case, Dr. Witten said, ''All the old viewpoints would be correct,'' and physicists could go back to dreaming of a final theory.
 ''I'd be happy if that happened,'' he said. ''Our reward would be to go back to where we were, not understanding the cosmological constant.''
 The notion that there are a zillion universes, whose individual properties are just a cosmic dice throw, is a story that has been told before and ''raises the blood pressure of many physicists seriously,'' as Dr. Livio put it. But the idea has rarely been mentioned by Dr. Witten, who is seen in the community as a symbol of the old Einsteinian ideal.
 Dr. Witten said he was just doing his duty to explain what dark energy meant to physics. 
 ''As for how I feel personally, I am not sure what to say,'' he said in an e-mail message. ''I wasn't terribly enthusiastic the first, or even second, time I heard the proposal of a multiverse. But none of us were consulted when the universe was created.''
 Astronomy of the Invisible
 The trouble started in 1998 when two competing teams of astronomers, one led by Saul Perlmutter of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California and the other by Brian Schmidt of the Australian National University, discovered that the expansion of the universe was inexplicably accelerating. 
 Both teams were using a kind of exploding star known as a Type 1a supernova as standard candles -- objects whose distance can be inferred from their apparent brightness and a few other tricks of the trade -- to investigate the history and fate of the universe. They found, on the basis of a few dozen of these stars, that the more distant ones were dimmer than expected, meaning that they had been carried farther away by the cosmic expansion than expected, meaning that the universe was speeding up. The car keys were streaking for the ceiling.
 The groups quibble about who saw and said what first, but they have shared in a cavalcade of awards and prizes, among them the $1 million Shaw Prize in 2006 and the $500,000 Gruber Cosmology Prize, awarded last fall at Cambridge University in England, where Dr. Perlmutter and Dr. Schmidt lectured jointly, trading sentences.
 Since then myriad collaborations have joined in the hunt for these exploding stars. In Baltimore, Dr. Perlmutter reported on a new analysis of ''the world's data set,'' more than 300 supernovas observed by various groups, which he said would provide the tightest constraints on the nature of dark energy ''for at least the next 15 minutes.''
 Dr. Perlmutter's results, along with all the others that were presented over the next four days, were consistent with Einstein's cosmological constant, plus or minus 10 percent, but with just about everything else the theorists can throw into the pot, as well.
 Nor is there any solid evidence yet that dark energy is or is not varying with time -- if it is not constant, it cannot be Einstein's constant. Adam Riess of the Johns Hopkins space telescope institute, a key member of Dr. Schmidt's team, said, ''The biggest thing we could learn is by ruling that out.'' 
 He added, ''We have a suspect, but we're not ready to convict anyone yet.''
 Dr. Perlmutter said, ''The challenge is to make dramatic improvements in the quality of the data,'' adding, ''The next decade should be a very fertile time.''
 Astronomers have developed a smorgasbord of other ways of tracking the effect of dark energy. They have learned how to map the growth of clusters of galaxies, by analyzing how their gravity distorts the light from galaxies far behind them. Gravity makes the clusters grow; dark energy holds them back.
 ''We can see dark matter, and in principle even invisible clusters,'' said Henk Hoekstra of the University of Victoria in Canada.
 Another technique is to simply count the clusters at different times in the cosmic past, the way one might count trees to gauge the growth of a forest. Yet another method is to use sound waves from the hot, early days of the universe, which have left an imprint on the distribution of galaxies today -- a 500-million-light-year ''bump'' -- as a cosmic yardstick for measuring the universe as it grew.
 Each of these methods has its own strengths and weaknesses, and experts agree that it will be necessary to marry the results from many methods to zoom in on the properties of dark energy. They also agree that the best place to do that is in space.
 The Big Bake-Off
 Last year a committee from the National Academy of Sciences recommended that a dark energy observatory be the next mission in an astrophysics program called Beyond Einstein. 
 There are now three competitors angling for the job: Dr. Perlmutter's SNAP, for Supernova Acceleration Probe; Adept, or Advanced Dark Energy Telescope, led by Charles Bennett of Johns Hopkins; and Destiny, for Dark Energy Space Telescope, led by Tod Lauer of the National Optical Astronomy Observatory in Tucson.
 Also in the works, just to add spice, is a European mission known as Euclid, which could fly in 2017, if it is approved by the European Space Agency. NASA and the Department of Energy, working together, expect to make a final selection for the dark energy mission -- known colloquially as J-dem for Joint Dark Energy Mission -- next spring and launch it in the middle of the next decade. 
 That sounds like progress, but some astronomers, including the former members of the academy committee itself, have complained that $600 million is less than half of the $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion the academy committee estimated was necessary to do the job. In a recent letter to Michael Salamon, NASA scientist in charge of the project, 11 of the committee members, including both of its chairmen, urged NASA to raise the cost cap on the mission, writing, ''Cutting the budget in half would probably make the attainment of these goals impossible.'' 
 NASA's $600 million does not include the cost of launching the satellite, so the discrepancy is not as big as it looks. But in Baltimore, Jon Morse, director of astrophysics at NASA headquarters, warned that if the astronomers wanted to spend a billion dollars, some other astronomy mission would have to come off the table.
 NASA has to live within its means, Dr. Morse said in an interview.
 ''Otherwise,'' he said, ''Beyond Einstein becomes beyond reality.'' 
 A Hole in the Future?
 Whatever proposal is eventually selected, the dark energy satellite will return a tidal wave of data about the universe and its weird denizens, both visible and invisible. This data is likely to transform astronomy in unpredictable ways, but there is no guarantee that it will nail the mystery of dark energy.
 Both alternatives to the constant -- some weird energy field in space, or a modification to Einstein's theory of gravity -- could vary wildly over the course of history. But Paul Steinhardt, a theorist from Princeton University, argued that they would tend to mimic the cosmological constant so closely that the different models cannot be distinguished within the projected error limits, of a few percent.. He called this blur of ignorance ''the J-dem hole.'' The specter of the J-dem hole dominated a panel discussion later in the week devoted to the question, ''How well do we have to do?''
 The answer, said Dr. Krauss of Case Western, was ''better than you will be able to do.''
 The only real job, he said, is to distinguish dark energy from the cosmological constant. ''If we don't answer that question, we won't have learned a thing,'' Dr. Krauss said.
 He compared the present situation with the development of quantum mechanics, the paradoxical sounding rules that govern inside the atom, which overturned science in the 1920s. 
 That revolution, he pointed out, stemmed from theorists' inability to explain the so-called black body radiation emitted from a hot glowing object. The solution did not come from more and more precise measurements of the black body spectrum, but rather from the heads of people like Niels Bohr and Werner Heisenberg, who envisioned new ways that atoms could work and weird new laws of nature.
 ''We really need new theory, and we have none,'' Dr. Krauss said.
 In the meantime, astronomers could get lucky. Despite Dr. Steinhardt's analysis, measurements of dark energy's strength could converge on a value not quite the same as Einstein's constant. Or itcould turn out that it has changed over cosmic time and is not constant. Einstein and Dr. Witten would be off the hook.
 Michael Turner, a University of Chicago cosmologist who coined the term ''dark energy,'' said you could measure the health of a field by the big questions it takes on, and addressing Dr. Morse of NASA, who was moderating the discussion, as well as his colleagues, he said, ''You have a job, to go knock on everyone's door and say this is the opportunity of a lifetime.'' 
 Dr. Krauss said, ''It would be crazy to talk ourselves out of this.''
 He added: ''You have to do what you can. You would be crazy not to look.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SAUL PERLMUTTER: ''The challenge is to make dramatic improvements in the quality of the data. The next decade should be a very fertile time.''
LAWRENCE KRAUSS: ''In spite of the fact that you are liable to spend the rest of your lives measuring stuff that won't tell us what we want to know, you should keep doing it. We would be crazy not to look.''
MYSTERIES OF A GHOST UNIVERSE: Lumps of dark matter, as mapped by the Hubble Space Telescope, fl oating in space make up most of the material universe. But space itself is being pushed apart faster and faster by an anti-gravitational effect known as dark energy that has shaken scientists' presumptions about the cosmos and their ability to understand it
ADAM RIESS: ''We have a suspect, but we're not ready to convict yet. The biggest thing we could learn is by ruling out the cosmological constant.''
EDWARD WITTEN: ''The discovery of dark energy has greatly changed how we think about the laws of nature. The nature of the change depends crucially on whether dark energy is a 'cosmological co nstant.''' (pg. F4) DIAGRAM: DRIVING GALAXIES APART: The universe is expanding at an ever-increasing rate, with something that astronomers call dark energy appearing to push it apart faster than gravity can pull it together. (Sources: NASA
Space Telescope Science Institute)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN CORUM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. F1) Diagram showing an ever expanding universe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (92%); ASTROPHYSICS (90%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); PHYSICS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (57%) NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); MARYLAND, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



61 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Some Russian Readers See Censorship, While Others Defend Their Government

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
Some Russians declared that the Kremlin had a right -- or even an obligation -- to bar opposition politicians from the nation's television networks. Others described such a practice as nothing more than blatant censorship that harked back to the old days.
 Those two strains of opinion dominated the responses from Russian bloggers to a version of the accompanying article that was translated into Russian. The article was posted on Friday on a Russian-language blog run by The New York Times on the most popular blogging platform in Russia, livejournal.com. 
 The post generated more than 850 comments. Here is a sampling, translated by the Moscow bureau of The Times:
 ''As a journalist, I can tell you -- yes, such lists exist and not only on the federal level, but at the level of the provincial press as well. Not only does the electronic mass media break off all contacts with the opposition, even the printing houses refuse to print things for them. It's better to do that than to face the pressure.'' Padonak1983
 ''There is room on TV only for those who work to strengthen the country. If your actions are destructive, i.e., you do not support the unidirectional progression of your country, then there is no place for you there. I really want to say: Write in newspapers and on the Internet, but TV is too strong a tool to hand over to everyone.'' Cruz--a
 ''It's awful what is going on with freedom of speech in our country. Putin and Co. are busy brainwashing people, just like Stalin and Brezhnev did. It's a shame that people accept it and agree.'' Zagrebchanka
 ''I believe that such lists do not exist and they are not needed. Marginal figures and idiots are not interesting for a modern audience -- the time of those people was in the '90s.'' Wizary
 ''Russia needs to participate in the propaganda war. If it doesn't, then the fate of the U.S.S.R. will repeat itself.'' Vitalid
 ''It's a fine article, the stop lists exist, no matter what they say; it's not possible to explain all this disgrace on TV in any other way. I am against other countries' interference with our affairs, but it is kind of stupid to consider our country a democracy.''
 Imfromjasenevo
 ''A group of colleagues and I have for two years been involved in a project, telekritika.ru, in which we have reported on the state of political programming on TV. The results have been unambiguous: television has provided extremely one-sided coverage of the political landscape. There are blacklists, but they are not just for individuals, but for particular issues as well.'' Sergmitron
 ''I have long been irritated by the fact that the West harshly criticizes Russia, while easily forgiving itself. Censorship, or rather, self-censorship, is everywhere.'' Marginov
 ''It is necessary to protect Russian citizens from destructive American propaganda! Having read the earlier comments, I see that many have been brainwashed already and are now in unison whining about a free press in Russia.'' Attackerx
 ''I doubt that there is a well-developed system of censorship, but self-censorship in the mass media definitely exists, and this is very good. Russian television is calm and correct. That members of the opposition are not invited only increases ratings because not many people want to see them, because for the most part they only criticize and never do anything.'' Dvorobiev
 ''Regional TV channels, radio channels have their own 'stop lists.' That is, they in advance filter out people who are out of favor with the Kremlin and, additionally, those who are out of favor with provincial overlords.'' Commentator40
 ''The problem with the opposition is not in censorship, but in the absolute, total incompetence of these people. None of these fearless 'freedom fighters' have said a word about the solutions for our economic or social problems.'' Texconten
 ''I think that stop lists are quite a widespread phenomenon in ALL of the civilized world. I doubt that Irish Republican Army spokesmen regularly appear in Great Britain on their central television. So why should we show Kasparov, who even at his meetings shouts in English???'' Numrik ''Self-censorship and censorship coming from the government have always existed, do exist and always will exist in Russia. And this is often very beneficial. In their quests for ratings, our journalists often cross permitted ethical boundaries and abuse freedom of speech.'' Bzzzzzzzzzzzzz
 ''It is no secret to anyone that Putin has suffocated freedom of speech. ALL of my acquaintances listen only to one radio station, the Echo of Moscow. Even gullible pensioners do not consider television a source of truthful information. Those of my generation, who grew up under Brezhnev, understand the regime created by Leonid Ilyich Putin well.'' Cheralpa 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); CENSORSHIP (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); WRITERS (71%); MEDIA BIAS (69%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



62 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Airline Industry Group Calls Situation 'Desperate'

BYLINE: By CAROLINE BROTHERS; James Kanter in Brussels and Matthew Saltmarsh in Paris contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ISTANBUL 

 BODY:
Citing high oil prices and the slowing economy, the International Air Transport Association on Monday sharply lowered its industry forecast for 2008, saying it now expected a collective loss of at least $2.3 billion. 
 In March, the group forecast a profit of $4.5 billion. The industry reported a profit of $5.6 billion in 2007, the first since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in the United States.
 At its annual meeting here, the association urged governments to roll back regulations that they argue are damaging the industry at a time when many carriers are in a situation it called desperate. 
 If the price of oil, now just below $130 a barrel, averages $107 over 2008, the industry will lose $2.3 billion for the year, the chief executive of the group, Giovanni Bisignani, said. Should it trade at $135 a barrel for the rest of the year, the industry will lose $6.1 billion, he added.
 ''After enormous efficiency gains since 2001, there is no fat left, and skyrocketing oil prices are changing everything,'' Mr. Bisignani said. ''The situation is desperate and potentially more destructive than our recent battles with all the Horsemen of the Apocalypse combined.'' 
 Twenty-four airlines went bankrupt in the last six months -- three to four times as many as the group usually records in a year. With airlines paying about 90 percent more for fuel compared with a year ago, chief executives of major carriers attending the meeting said they were staring into the abyss.
 ''It's not an industry problem anymore -- it's an economic disaster for countries if we fade,'' Mr. Bisignani said. ''You can't cross the Atlantic on a train.''
 Other problems facing the airlines, the group said, include uncertainty about the approaches by the European Union and governments toward state aid and airline mergers. 
 The chief executive of British Airways, William M. Walsh, said: ''We're definitely as an industry in a crisis situation. With a softening in the economic environment, high oil prices, it's inevitable that fares have to go up.'' 
 Mr. Walsh added that he expected more bankruptcies soon.
 Hartmut Moers, an analyst at the bank Sal. Oppenheim in Frankfurt, said, ''The key short-term question is who is best hedged against the oil rise.'' 
 ''And then further out,'' Mr. Moers said, ''you look for the airlines with robust operations, the flexibility to adjust and the ones that are best capitalized.'' 
 Issuing what he called an Istanbul Declaration for the industry, Mr. Bisignani urged airline workers to accept the notion that jobs would disappear if costs were not cut, and he urged governments to act to untangle regulations that he said were strangling opportunities for carriers to improve business. 
 ''We cannot fly to new markets without an international agreement,'' Mr. Bisignani said. ''We cannot look beyond national borders to try new ideas, grow our business, access global capital, or merge and consolidate.'' 
 ''We fight crisis after crisis with our hands tied because flags, not brands, define our business,'' he added. ''This must change.'' 
 He criticized the European Parliament for imposing 100 amendments to its emissions trading plans after the International Civil Aviation Organization had already agreed to ambitious environmental goals. 
 He said the industry faced a bill of 6.4 billion euros ($10 billion), ''for a misguided and unilateral proposal that will inspire international legal battles but do very little for the environment.'' 
 The European Commission on Monday defended its plans to regulate emissions from most aircraft that land or take off from airports in the European Union.
 ''The current situation of high energy prices is one more reason to move more quickly to low-carbon economies,'' said Barbara Helfferich, a spokeswoman for the commission, which proposed the legislation that is under review by the Parliament and European governments.
 ''Everyone must be engaged in fighting climate change, and different businesses have to contribute according to the level of their emissions so that we have a level playing field and so that the system works,'' Ms. Helfferich said, referring to plans to include airlines in an emissions-trading system, which has operated in Europe since 2005. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Giovanni Bisignani (PHOTOGRAPH BY BULENT KILIC/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); MERGERS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); SAL OPPENHEIM JR & CIE KGAA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



63 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; SHIBETSU JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Despite Land for the Taking, No Cry of Northward Ho

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: SHIBETSU, Japan 

 BODY:
''If you build a home and move here, the land is yours free,'' read a billboard on the side of a quiet two-lane highway that disappeared straight into the horizon here, under northern Japan's big sky.
 An orange hand atop the billboard pointed to a large, empty tract of flat land on which three new houses stood, surrounded by nothing. 
 Yellow stake signs dotted the land. Some displayed the name of a future settler, like a certain Inehara-san from Hyogo prefecture on lot B-9; others, only the details of a piece still up for grabs, including the 4,300 square feet on B-11.
 Desperate to stanch a decline in population, this town and another on Hokkaido, the northernmost island in Japan, are trying to lure newcomers with free land. It was a back-to-the-future policy since Hokkaido was settled by Japanese drawn here by the promise of free land in the late 19th century, a time when Japan was growing and modernizing rapidly.
 Since 1998, Hokkaido, like the rest of rural Japan, has been losing its residents to cities and old age. Significantly, just as Hokkaido's earlier development resulted from Japan's expansion, the decline in its population presaged the new era of a shrinking Japan, whose overall population started sliding in 2005.
 Towns like Shibetsu -- on Hokkaido's eastern coast, so far east of Tokyo that the sun rises at 3:30 a.m. this time of the year because of Japan's single time zone -- have been hardest hit. Outside the small town center, few cars could be seen on the roads the other day. The open, flat land characteristic of Hokkaido, in sharp contrast to the densely packed mountains elsewhere in Japan, merely emphasized the area's emptiness.
 ''If you think of it in American terms, this is like a Wild West town you see in movies or on television,'' said Hiroaki Matsui, 50, a truck driver born here. ''But even in America's Wild West, this would be the remotest of all towns.''
 Mr. Matsui supported the policy of giving away land but wondered whether newcomers, used to the comforts of modern Japan, were ready to move to an isolated town where winter temperatures drop to minus 4 Fahrenheit. ''Will they really come here?'' he asked incredulously.
 In the United States, depopulated communities in the Great Plains have been giving away land in recent years. But in Japan, where a population more than 40 percent the size of the United States' is squeezed into a country the size of California, offering free land seemed like an extreme measure.
 ''Land is cheap in Hokkaido,'' said Akira Kanazawa, the mayor of Shibetsu, adding that many communities on the island were trying to attract new residents by offering rebates on land. ''But free? That's highly unusual.''
 Because of a hollowing out of Shibetsu's main industries, dairy farming and fishing, the town's population has fallen by more than 10 percent in the last decade, to 5,889 today. So in late 2006, the town announced that it would give away 28 parcels of land ranging from 4,300 square feet to 5,230 square feet each, very generous by Japanese standards. A third of the lots were reserved for locals, with the rest going to outsiders.
 The only stipulation was that the newcomers build a house on the lot within three years and move there officially.
 Town officials had expected a big response. ''But it wasn't as simple as that,'' the mayor said. ''After all, it's a huge commitment to migrate here.''
 So far, only 11 families or couples, five from outside Hokkaido and six from within, have taken up Shibetsu's offer, leaving 17 unclaimed lots. Locals now live in two finished houses; a third, to be occupied by a couple from Osaka, is under construction.
 For centuries, the island was inhabited only by Ainu, an indigenous group, and was too cold to grow rice. But in the decades following Japan's forced opening by the United States in the mid-19th century, Tokyo pressed to expand north, especially to counter growing Russian influence in the region.
 The Hokkaido Colonization Board was established in 1869, guiding the migration of Japanese who displaced the Ainu and leading to the island's acquisition by Japan. That migration was the first step in a movement that would send Japanese migrants to Hawaii, North and South America, and, with the growth of Japanese militarism, to Manchuria and other corners of Asia. As land grew scarce on the other Japanese islands, mostly second- or third-born sons who would not inherit any land back home arrived on Hokkaido with a frontier spirit, heeding the government's call to develop the new land. 
 ''That's because back then Hokkaido was the only place in Japan with available land,'' said Koichi Miura, a local historian in Yakumo, a town in southern Hokkaido that is also offering newcomers free land. He said that each settler then was given about 30 acres.
 The lots being handed out this time in Yakumo are far smaller, roughly the size of those being given away in Shibetsu. In addition, unlike the earlier settlers, today's tend to be older, with many deciding to move here for retirement. Town officials said that even if the newcomers were retirees, the economic benefits to the towns would outweigh the costs.
 Toshiaki Nakamura, 48, who is scheduled to move here from Tokyo in the fall with his wife and daughter, said he wanted to escape the stress of Tokyo and was drawn by the nature on Hokkaido. Over the years, he and his wife, Toyomi, 52, had come to Hokkaido many times on vacation and decided to move here last fall after looking at three other locations on the island.
 The land giveaway was also a factor. ''It made me think how much those local governments are hurting as Japan's population declines,'' Mr. Nakamura said.
 The couple planned to sell their Tokyo home, built on 1,200 square feet, and were making plans for a new house on their 5,000-square-foot lot here.
 ''I feel bad, receiving free land in this day and age,'' Mrs. Nakamura said. ''That's unimaginable in Tokyo.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A sign offers land in Shibetsu, on Hokkaido. Toshiaki and Toyomi Nakamura stand in front of their home in Tokyo, the slim building behind them. They are selling it and moving to Shibetsu. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NORIMITSU ONISHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: So far, only 11 families have claimed Shibetsu's free lots. Map of Shibetsu in Japan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION DECLINE (90%); MAYORS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (94%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



64 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Class-Action Lawyer Given a 30-Month Prison Term for Hiding Kickbacks

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Melvyn I. Weiss, the prominent class-action lawyer, was sentenced on Monday to 30 months in prison by a Federal District Court judge in Los Angeles for his role in concealing illegal kickbacks to plaintiffs. 
 He was also ordered to pay $9.8 million in forfeitures and $250,000 in fines.
 The sentencing nearly concludes an investigation that began some seven years ago of tactics used by Mr. Weiss's former firm, Milberg Weiss, now called Milberg 
 Mr. Weiss's former partner, William S. Lerach, is serving a two-year sentence as a result of the same investigation, and other lawyers have pleaded guilty for roles in what prosecutors described as a criminal conspiracy that lasted for decades. Mr. Lerach was also ordered to forfeit $7.75 million.
 Mr. Weiss, Mr. Lerach and the law firm that they built together dominated the lucrative field of securities class-action litigation, filing many lawsuits against publicly traded companies on behalf of investors who had lost money when share prices fell.
 Milberg itself still faces an indictment and is set to go to trial in August, but a settlement is widely expected.
 A deal with Milberg would be the latest in a series of blows to the image of plaintiff-side trial lawyers. In addition to guilty pleas by Mr. Lerach last year and Mr. Weiss this year, another well-known lawyer, Richard Scruggs, known as Dickie, pleaded guilty to trying to bribe a state judge in Mississippi in March.
 The spate of guilty pleas has led some Republicans in Congress to call for limits on the conduct of plaintiffs' lawyers in shareholder suits. Senator John Cornyn of Texas has introduced a bill seeking to modify the rules governing such litigation. Other Republican lawmakers have called for investigations of lawyers involved in shareholder litigation.
 ''The Milberg Weiss trial lawyer scandal has exposed a potentially serious threat to our nation's economy, but to date, the Democrat-controlled Congress has done nothing about it,'' Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican minority leader, said. ''If in fact the crimes to which Mr. Weiss and his partner, William Lerach, have pled guilty are an 'industry practice,' as Mr. Lerach himself stated, then a clear and present threat to our economy is going unaddressed by Congress.''
 It is hard to overstate the prominence of Mr. Lerach and Mr. Weiss in the world of shareholder litigation, or the anger and frustration their lawsuits caused among the ranks of corporate executives. Milberg Weiss, as the firm used to be known, won billions of dollars in settlements of lawsuits against Enron, Lucent, Tyco and other companies. 
 ''They were dominant,'' Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond, said. ''It's really the class-action device and its use that they perfected.''
 Milberg Weiss lawyers sued early and often, raking in a percentage of settlement amounts as their legal fees. Mr. Weiss and Mr. Lerach grew wealthy from the business.
 Mr. Lerach, 62, and Mr. Weiss, 72, pleaded guilty to conspiring to make secret payments to lead plaintiffs in such class actions, essentially to reward what prosecutors described as a ''stable'' of ready clients who held stock in a variety of companies. The payments meant that the lead plaintiffs stood to receive more money than they would if they had simply been members of the class, and that as a result they might not have looked out for the best interests of the entire class as lead plaintiffs are supposed to do.
 Prosecutors claimed that Mr. Weiss got $9.8 million as a result of the conspiracy.
 Because the law firm had clients ready, it could get to the courthouse first, try to get the lawsuit certified as a class action, apply to be lead counsel to the class of aggrieved investors and demand more in legal fees, Mr. Tobias said. ''That just multiples everything,'' he said. ''It multiplies the attorneys' fees, it makes the litigation financing work.''
 Mr. Weiss's sentence of 30 months is slightly less than the 33 months called for in his plea agreement with prosecutors, but is longer than the sentence given to Mr. Lerach. 
 ''There are discretionary factors within a range set by sentencing guidelines,'' said Amy E. Millard, a former federal prosecutor in Manhattan who is now partner at Clayman & Rosenberg. But the sentencing guidelines are not binding on judges, she added. 
 statementAt his sentencing, Mr. Weiss expressed regret for his misconduct. According to The Associated Press, he told the presiding judge, John F. Walter, ''My contrition is profound and genuine.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Melvyn I. Weiss, before he was sentenced on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL McCARTEN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASS ACTIONS (92%); SENTENCING (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); LAWYERS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ASSET FORFEITURE (78%); CONSPIRACY (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); EXECUTIVES (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: MILBERG LLP (85%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (85%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (85%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%); JOHN CORNYN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



65 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Bill Is Back, Giving Voice to the Stepped-Upon

BYLINE: By WENDY A. LEE

 BODY:
MasterCard executives have found a new poster boy for the angst-ridden economy: Mr. Bill.
 The small clay figure that appeared in ''Saturday Night Live'' short films three decades ago -- being dismembered, pulverized and humiliated to his falsetto cries of ''Oh, nooooo!'' -- will be the latest star of MasterCard's ''Priceless'' campaign.
 He is being revived as a debit-card holder who gets roughed up but keeps on going. The 30-second spot, to start airing next Monday, casts Mr. Bill as an urban professional on his daily routine: 
 Mr. Hands pours hot coffee on him (''coffee: $2''), a personal trainer launches him off a treadmill (''gym: $59/mo.''), and an opened briefcase flips him onto the windshield of a city bus (''briefcase: $120''). 
 Mr. Bill, rolling with endless punches, just enjoys the ride home: ''Making it through the day: priceless.'' A voice-over adds, ''For whatever comes your way, there's debit MasterCard.''
 The spot is meant to tap into the current ''unsureness about what's going to happen next,'' said Joyce King Thomas, executive vice president and chief creative officer at McCann-Erickson, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, which created the ''Priceless'' campaign for MasterCard in 1997.
 ''This is the sunny Mr. Bill,'' she added. ''We wanted to make him a character who can handle things beyond his control and stay optimistic.''
 Part of the idea is that baby boomers who made ''oh nooooo!'' jokes in their college dorms will remember Mr. Bill fondly, and younger people to whom the shorts are ancient history will enjoy seeing him get abused.
 ''It's very interesting that 30 years later, you can bring this character back,'' said Edward Russell, an assistant professor of advertising at Syracuse's S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications. ''It tells me that they're really going after 44-plus-year-olds, which would make sense since this is a group with more disposable income.'' 
 Mr. Russell, who remembers watching the ''SNL'' skits in college, did have one quibble: ''It's hard to say that this is completely true to the real Mr. Bill. In the ad, Mr. Bill always finds something positive. That wasn't true in the original series -- he just got hurt.''
 Ms. Thomas of McCann-Erickson said that Mr. Bill tested well with viewers of all ages. People who had never heard of him before ''found him to be a charming character,'' she said. ''He's a little clay guy who things happen to and he's just fine.'' 
 Mr. Bill made his debut on ''Saturday Night Live'' on NBC in 1976 when his creator, Walter Williams, won the show's home video contest using a reel of film that he shot in his living room with a budget of $10. ''No one hired me to create Mr. Bill,'' said Mr. Williams, now a filmmaker in New Orleans, in a telephone interview.
 Mr. Bill appeared on the first five seasons of the show, and Mr. Williams became a staff writer after three years, which is when he started being paid for Mr. Bill for the first time. He owns all the rights to the character, and he directed the MasterCard spot.
 ''I've been doing everything I can to kill him off for 30 years, but he seems to be coming back,'' Mr. Williams said. 
 Since ''SNL,'' Mr. Bill has appeared in ads for Burger King, Ramada Inn, Pringles and Lexus. Mr. Williams has declined offers to appear in promotions for beer and casinos. ''It taints the character,'' he said. ''I didn't want Mr. Bill associated with the end of Johnny's college fund.''
 MasterCard is not the only company that sees Mr. Bill as a reflection of the nation's mood: Subway sandwich shops picked up the character for ads in January.
 ''I think it's the times, like how Charlie Chaplin flourished in the Depression,'' Mr. Williams said. ''People are looking for comedy.'' 
 Dark humor had been out of vogue in the period after 9/11, Mr. Williams said; requests to use Mr. Bill declined. ''Having a character stepped on and crumbled was just not funny,'' he said. Apparently, it is again.
 Mr. Williams, who devotes most of his time to promoting wetlands restoration in New Orleans, said that Mr. Bill's commercial activity helps underwrite his nonprofit efforts, like public service announcements for hurricane protection. After Katrina, Senator Mary L. Landrieu famously said, ''How can it be that Mr. Bill was better informed than Mr. Bush?''
 Although MasterCard insisted that it was not using Mr. Bill to market specifically to consumers' economic plight, the spot does highlight debit cards, which do not permit their owners to spend more money than they have (in theory), rather than credit cards, a riskier tool.
 Americans are not backing away from spending and accumulating debt, but ''they are being more careful,'' said David Wyss, chief economist of Standard and Poor's. People are ''trading down,'' he said, compensating for higher food and energy prices by shopping at discount stores like Wal-Mart and Costco. 
 Tim Murphy, president of the United States region for MasterCard Worldwide, said that more dollars were being spent in ''the everyday categories, with gasoline taking up a larger part of consumers' pocketbooks.'' 
 That trend is not a bad one for MasterCard, which wants consumers to use debit cards to pay for casual purchases, like $2 cups of coffee. ''The pitch for debit is that it gives consumers control and versatility,'' Mr. Murphy said. ''Mr. Bill uses it to buy everyday items and to pay a recurring bill.''
 But Ed Mierzwinski, the consumer program director for the United States Public Interest Research Group, said that debit cards were far from a panacea. ''If you're using plastic, you tend to spend more than when using cash,'' he said, adding that cardholders can incur heavy fines if they overdraw their accounts. 
 Mr. Mierzwinski also said that debit transactions -- and the right to dispute them -- are not legally protected the way credit card transactions are. ''Zero liability promises on debit cards are only promises, they're not the law,'' he said.
 MasterCard is not the only payment card company that has adjusted its pitch in light of economic conditions. Discover Financial Services recently started advertising its ''paydown planner,'' an online calculator that shows cardholders how to reduce their balances within a certain time frame or by making specific monthly payments. 
 However the economy swings, Mr. Bill will probably not be a recurring mascot for MasterCard. ''We usually try to do something just once,'' Ms. Thomas of McCann-Erickson said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In a MasterCard commercial, Mr. Bill faces life's daily trials with resilience. (pg.C1)
Early Mr. Bill, from a 1979 episode of ''Saturday Night Live.'' The first short film was made on a budget of $10. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREAMSITE PRODUCTIONS)
In 2004, a year before Katrina struck, Mr. Bill appeared in public service spots about protecting New Orleans from hurricanes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREAMSITE PRODUCTIONS)
 Walter Williams, the creator of Mr. Bill, uses the character's commercials to underwrite nonprofit efforts in New Orleans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRAD EDELMAN) (pg.C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); DEBIT CARDS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); STUDENT HOUSING (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%); BABY BOOMERS (50%)

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (86%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (83%)

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (86%); IPG (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (86%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (86%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (90%) LOUISIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Saturday Night Live (TV Program)>; Saturday Night Live (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



66 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: 8 Are Killed In Bombing In Pakistan

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ and PIR ZUBAIR SHAH; Dan Bilefsky contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
A powerful car bomb exploded outside the Danish Embassy in an upscale area of the Pakistani capital on Monday, killing eight people, the police said. 
 A senior official at the Interior Ministry, Rehman Malik, said one foreigner was among the dead, but he did not give a nationality. The police said at least 25 people had been injured. Mr. Malik said the police were investigating whether the blast was a suicide attack. There was no immediate claim of responsibility.
 The blast, heard around the city about 1 p.m., was the second effort to single out foreigners in Islamabad in the last few months as the civilian government has signed a series of peace deals with Islamic militants in the nation's tribal areas. 
 Several European bomb experts who examined the blast site said that the bomb appeared to have contained about 110 pounds of explosives. It left a crater nearly three feet deep, and was powerful enough to wreck cars up and down a street with many diplomatic residences, schools and a shopping center. 
 Among the facades destroyed was that of a nearby building housing the United Nations Development Program. A Brazilian woman employed by the aid agency was reported to have been badly injured.
 The biggest embassies in Islamabad are in a gated enclave reserved entirely for foreign missions. The Danish Embassy was several miles from that enclave, however. 
 The blast was certain to increase unease in the foreign community, and many embassies immediately took new precautions to tighten security. The United States Embassy and other Western embassies have already instructed diplomats not to bring their children into the country. 
 ''My gut feeling, without much information,'' said a Western ambassador who spoke on condition of anonymity, is that Islamic militants ''are putting pressure on the Western community, the people trying to help Pakistan.''
 The police offered no immediate details on how the device was detonated. Officials at the scene said two of those killed were Pakistani security guards. 
 Per Stig Moller, Denmark's foreign minister, immediately condemned the attack. ''There are fanatics and terrorists out there, and we do what we can to protect ourselves from them,'' he told Denmark's TV2 News. 
 ''There's nothing that indicates that our security measures were inadequate,'' he said. ''The Pakistanis have also done more to raise security levels, but a terrorist can slip through all the same. I can't explain at this moment why this is possible -- that's what I need to find out.'' 
 In March, after Danish newspapers reprinted cartoons satirizing the Prophet Muhammad, Osama bin Laden issued a threat in an audio message posted on the Internet, saying, ''Publishing these insulting drawings is the greatest misfortune and the most dangerous.''
 The original publication of the cartoons, in 2005, set off widespread street demonstrations in the Middle East and threats of boycotts of Danish products by Muslim countries. Danish newspapers reprinted the cartoons in February, after the Danish police arrested two Tunisians and a Dane of Moroccan descent on charges of plotting to kill one of the cartoonists, setting off a new round of global protests. 
 In addition, anxiety among foreigners about security in Islamabad rose last year after the army assaulted the Red Mosque, killing nearly 100 Islamic militants holed up there. 
 The attack on the mosque set off a round of suicide bomb attacks in Pakistan. 
 A bomb thrown over the fence of an Italian restaurant in Islamabad on a Saturday night in March when many foreigners were eating on the terrace injured five Americans, four of whom were employees of the F.B.I.
 The new civilian government in Pakistan is likely to come under increasing pressure from Western governments to pay more attention to the threat from Islamic militants who control much of the nation's tribal areas. 
 Until now, the government, which was elected in February, has spent most of its time arguing about whether to restore 60 judges fired by President Pervez Musharraf late last year. 
 The government has agreed to peace deals with the Pakistani Taliban in the tribal region in the last few weeks, a move that has been criticized by the Bush administration. 
 Political observers in Denmark said Monday that the bombing would unsettle Danish society, which has found itself under the unwanted spotlight of a perceived culture war between Islam and the West.
 ''This is almost certain to harden skepticism to radical Islam in the Danish population,'' said Ralf Pittelkow, author of a book on Islam and a leading commentator at Jyllands-Posten, the newspaper that first published the Muhammad cartoons. ''People feel shaken by this. It is yet more evidence that we can't hide from a dangerous world.''
 Mr. Pittelkow said he did not expect a violent backlash against Denmark's Muslim community. But he warned that violence aimed at Denmark would embolden the far-right Danish People's Party, which has 13 percent of the seats in Parliament and has pushed through some of the toughest anti-immigration rules on the continent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Policemen removed a body after a powerful car bombing on Monday outside the Danish Embassy in Islamabad, Pakistan's capital. No one claimed responsibility. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AAMIR QURESHI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 A body on the road outside the embassy after the explosion. The police were investigating whether it was a suicide attack. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARRICK PAGE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (92%); BOMBINGS (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); AL-QAEDA (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); RELIGION (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); PEACE PROCESS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENMARK (96%); PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



67 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 81 words

HEADLINE: The Extremist's Paradox

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Warrior for Al Qaeda Rallies Recruits With Her Online Fury'' (news article, May 28):
 The irony of Malika El Aroud's jihadist crusade is beyond delicious. She seeks the violent demise of Western democracy, the only system under which she could freely preach her brand of hate and murder all the while collecting generous monthly unemployment benefits and relying on the civil rights and protections under Belgium's legal system. Daniel Wolf
 Teaneck, N.J., May 29, 2008 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (50%) BELGIUM (51%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



68 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Didn't Dupe U.N. Office, Report Says

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

 BODY:
American allegations that North Korea duped the United Nations Development Program by diverting aid money for its own needs are not supported by any evidence, according to a lengthy external review released Monday. 
 There was no sign that millions of dollars were mismanaged, diverted elsewhere or unaccounted for, the report said, countering accusations made in early 2007 by the United States Mission to the United Nations. Although the report acknowledged that some information the panel had sought was unavailable, the review's conclusion was that the money had been ''used for the purposes of the projects.'' 
 The controversy surrounding the accusations led the development program to suspend its operations in North Korea in March 2007. They have remained suspended because of differences over whether the government should choose local employees who work for the agency. 
 The review was conducted by a three-member panel, led by Miklos Nemeth, a former Hungarian prime minister, and was presented Monday by Kemal Dervis, a former Turkish finance minister who leads the development program. Mr. Dervis said the panel members preferred not to comment publicly. 
 At the news conference, when asked whether he thought the accusations emerged out of the political dispute over the Bush administration's negotiations with North Korea, Mr. Dervis said he would not comment on internal government ideological battles. 
 ''All these allegations, clearly -- when you compare it to what is in the report -- are either vastly exaggerated or stem from misunderstandings or some of them may be from ill intent,'' he said. 
 The accusations were raised by Mark D. Wallace, who leads the department at the United States Mission that evaluates United Nations management practices. In early 2007, he said millions of dollars in program money had been used to buy real estate abroad and to pay a North Korean financial agent responsible for sales of missiles and arms. 
 He compared the program to the multibillion-dollar oil-for-food scandal in Iraq before the invasion and suggested that the United Nations money might have helped finance North Korea's nuclear program. 
 Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador, said his staff was studying the report, but noted that it was the American Mission's responsibility to pursue any allegations about the abuse of money, especially since United States taxpayers helped underwrite the United Nations budget. The United States supports all recommendations in the report that would increase transparency and accountability, he said. 
 The report, which surveyed the disbursement of more than $23 million between 1999 and 2007, recommended that the development program pay closer attention when it adapts its general guidelines to ''a challenging environment'' like North Korea. The dense 353-page report appeared to concur with what the program had maintained all along, that the American allegations were baseless. But it recognized some sloppy practices, like tossing $3,500 in defaced counterfeit $100 bills into the bottom of its safe in Pyongyang and forgetting about them for more than a decade. 
 Some confusion stemmed from the fact that the North Koreans used the development program's name on international money transfers -- hoping the funds would come under less scrutiny that way. Such tactics were beyond the program's control, the study concluded. 
 Among other key findings, the report said that the former development program operations manager in North Korea who was a source for many of the allegations, Artjon Shkurtaj, lacked credibility and ''proved to be an evasive witness.'' 
 Mr. Shkurtaj issued a statement via e-mail objecting to not having been shown the report before it was released. He said he still hoped for a ruling from the United Nations Ethics Office on whether he had been fired in retaliation for being a whistle-blower. The report dismissed accusations that the development program had retaliated against him. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); SCANDALS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); COUNTERFEITING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); TURKEY (79%); HUNGARY (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



69 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Manufacturing Slips As Inflation Gauge Surges

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
United States manufacturing declined in May for the fourth consecutive month while inflation surged to the highest in four years, heightening fears of stagflation.
 Combined with data on inflation, the manufacturing report fed concerns about rising prices in a weak economy, especially after the price of oil hit a record high last month above $135 a barrel. 
 The Institute for Supply Management said its index of national factory activity rose to 49.6 in May, from April's 48.6. That was slightly above market expectations, but the index remained below the level of 50 that signals contraction.
 ''These are mildly contractionary readings on manufacturing activity, rather than outright recession signals, although they are accompanied by ugly readings on cost inflation pressures,'' analysts at Bear Stearns said in a note to clients.
 The institute report showed a worrying trend for inflation in the United States. Its index of prices paid jumped to 87.0 -- the highest since April 2004 -- from 84.5 in April.
 This year's manufacturing downturn is the worst since the February-to-June period in 2003, and comes as the deepest housing slump since the Depression has weakened the broader economy.
 A separate report showed that construction spending fell less than expected in April. This added weight to the argument that the economy is weak but may not be in recession.
 The contraction in the May supply management index was the fifth in six months, but the weak dollar has bolstered exports, helping to ease damage to the factory sector.
 The index of new export orders rose to 59.5, up from April's 57.5 and the highest since May 2004, when it was at 60.0. 
 Construction spending fell 0.4 percent in April on continued deterioration in the residential sector, but outside of home building, private spending rose for the third month in a row.
 Economists polled by Reuters ahead of the Commerce Department's report were expecting a 0.6 percent decrease in construction spending, after a 0.6 percent decrease in March that was first reported as a much bigger 1.1 percent decline.
 The factory sector also struggled abroad. Manufacturing in the euro zone cooled more in May as output remained near a three-year low.
 The RBS/NTC Eurozone Purchasing Managers Index for the manufacturing sector eased to 50.6 in May, down from April's 50.7 but above the earlier estimate of 50.5, which was also the median number forecast by economists.

GRAPHIC: CHART: CONSTRUCTION SPENDING: Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); TRENDS (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); US DOLLAR (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); EXPORT TRADE (64%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (84%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



70 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Premier May Discuss Allegations In Iran Visit

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER; Qais Mizher contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Iraq's prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, has scheduled a visit to Iran later this week and is expected to broach a subject high on the agenda of American commanders here: the allegation that Iran is supporting the insurgency in Iraq with men and weapons. 
 For more than a year, American generals have accused the Iranian authorities of slipping agents and weapons across the long, porous border, including a powerful type of roadside bomb called explosively formed penetrators, which can pierce the armor on American vehicles. 
 For the Iraqi government the issue is more fraught. Mr. Maliki's government is composed of Shiite political parties that were sheltered in Iran, and received support from the Iranian government, during the rule of Saddam Hussein.
 Mr. Maliki's approach to Iran is less adversarial than the Americans'. He has appealed to Iran for assistance in stabilizing the country and reviving the economy. Last month, the government turned to Iran to help broker a cease-fire with Shiite militias in the Sadr City district in northeastern Baghdad.
 The planned visit seemed to reflect this approach, too. 
 The newspaper Al Sabah quoted a government spokesman, Ali al-Dabbagh, as saying that Mr. Maliki would leave for Tehran on Saturday. The trip will also take him to Jordan.
 Another spokesman, Yaseen Majed, said Mr. Maliki would discuss political and security matters in Tehran. 
 In response to what the American military says is evidence of Iranian weaponry discovered in Iraq, however, Mr. Maliki convened an investigative committee. The findings of this committee, which have not been made public, will be presented to Iranian officials during the visit, according to a senior adviser to Mr. Maliki, who was not authorized to speak publicly about the prime minister's agenda.
 The Iraqi government is negotiating a long-term security pact with the United States and is under pressure from Shiite political parties to demonstrate independence from the Americans. Iran represents another potential partner for the Iraqi government to help tamp down the insurgency, at least in Shiite areas.
 It will be the second visit to Tehran for Mr. Maliki in less than a year. He traveled to Tehran last August, and Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, visited Baghdad in March. 
 In violence in Iraq on Monday, a suicide car bomber detonated near a police station in the northern city of Mosul, killing nine people, including five police officers. An additional 46 people were wounded, according to a police official. Islamic fighters had warned on a Web site that they would retaliate for a military operation and wave of mass arrests in the city last month.
 The United States military said it killed two suspected insurgents and captured 31 others in operations in central and northern Iraq on Sunday and Monday. 
 The military said the two were killed early Monday after American soldiers came under machine-gun fire and called in an airstrike in response. American soldiers found a nest of insurgent activity at the site, about 100 miles northwest of Tikrit, including explosives, components for suicide vests and tunnels leading to sleeping quarters, the military's statement said.
 In Baghdad, a roadside bomb killed an Iraqi policeman and wounded six others. In Diyala Province, north of Baghdad, a bomb detonated in a government office, wounding three people. Three roadside bombs were found and defused in the region. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); TERRORISM (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); RELIGION (69%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (94%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (59%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); IRAQ (96%); IRAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



71 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: CHAVEZ DECREE TIGHTENS HOLD ON INTELLIGENCE

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez has used his decree powers to carry out a major overhaul of this country's intelligence agencies, provoking a fierce backlash here from human rights groups and legal scholars who say the measures will force citizens to inform on one another to avoid prison terms.
 Under the new intelligence law, which took effect last week, Venezuela's two main intelligence services, the DISIP secret police and the DIM military intelligence agency, will be replaced with new agencies, the General Intelligence Office and General Counterintelligence Office, under the control of Mr. Chavez. 
 The new law requires people in the country to comply with requests to assist the agencies, secret police or community activist groups loyal to Mr. Chavez. Refusal can result in prison terms of two to four years for most people and four to six years for government employees. 
 ''We are before a set of measures that are a threat to all of us,'' said Blanca Rosa Marmol de Leon, a justice on Venezuela's top court, in a rare public judicial dissent. ''I have an obligation to say this, as a citizen and a judge. This is a step toward the creation of a society of informers.''
 The sweeping intelligence changes reflect an effort by Mr. Chavez to assert greater control over public institutions in the face of political challenges following a stinging defeat in December of a package of constitutional changes that would have expanded his powers.
 Mr. Chavez, who has insisted the defeat will not dampen his ambitions to transform Venezuela into a Socialist state, said the new law was intended to guarantee ''national security'' and shield against ''imperialist attacks.''
 He lashed out at its critics as being agents of the ''empire,'' meaning the United States.
 The law's stated aim of protecting Venezuela follows a history of antagonism between the governments in Caracas and Washington, dating at least from the Bush administration's tacit support for a short-lived coup against Mr. Chavez in 2002. 
 Recently, Venezuela has claimed it was subject to military intimidation from the United States, pointing to a recent violation of Venezuelan airspace by an American fighter jet and Washington's recent reactivation of its Fourth Fleet to patrol Latin American and Caribbean waters.
 On Sunday, Mr. Chavez referred to critics of the intelligence law as de facto supporters of the Bush administration and of the Patriot Act, the American antiterrorism law that enhances the ability of security agencies to monitor personal telephone and e-mail communications.
 Mr. Chavez's new intelligence law has similar flourishes. For instance, it authorizes his new intelligence agencies to use ''any special or technically designed method'' to intercept and obtain information.
 But the new law may also point to the influence of Cuba, Venezuela's top ally, on intelligence policies. For instance, the use of community-monitoring groups to assist in gathering intelligence resembles Cuba's use of neighborhood Committees for the Defense of the Revolution to report on antigovernment behavior.
 ''This is purely Cuban-style policy,'' Juan Jose Molina, a legislator with Podemos, a leftist party that broke from Mr. Chavez's coalition last year, said of the new intelligence law. ''Our rulers want to impose old models upon us.''
 Interior Minister Ramon Rodriguez Chacin announced the intelligence overhaul in a public appearance here last week, saying it was needed to combat ''interference from the United States'' by having intelligence agency workers imbued with ''ideological commitment.''
 On Monday, however, Mr. Rodriguez Chacin softened his tone, saying the law would not lead to political intimidation or restrict freedom of expression. ''We are talking about the responsibility all Venezuelans have with the security of the state and the resolution of any crime,'' he said.
 The drafting and passage of the law behind closed doors, without exposing it to the public debate it would have had if Mr. Chavez had submitted it to the Assembly, also contributed to the public uproar and suspicion.
 One part of the law, which explicitly requires judges and prosecutors to cooperate with the intelligence services, has generated substantial concern among legal experts and rights groups, which were already alarmed by the deterioration of judicial independence under Mr. Chavez.
 While the language of this passage of the law, and several others, is vague, legal experts say the idea is clear: justice officials, including judges, are required to actively collaborate with the intelligence services rather than serve as a check on them.
 ''This is a government that simply doesn't believe in the separation of powers,'' said Jose Miguel Vivanco, Americas director for Human Rights Watch, the New York-based rights organization. ''Here you have the president legislating by decree that the country's judges must serve as spies for the government.''
 Mr. Chavez's opponents here grasped for reasons as to why he chose this moment for the intelligence overhaul, with his government grappling with economic problems like climbing inflation and slowing economic growth even as the price of oil, the lifeblood of Venezuela's economy, remains near record levels.
 ''Even within the Bolivarian movement, this would officialize Soviet- and Cuban-style purges, accusing dissidents of being spies, traitors or agents of the imperialist enemy,'' El Nacional, a normally staid opposition newspaper, said in an editorial that ended, ''This is revolting.''
 In some ways, the changes would merely refine the control Mr. Chavez already exerts over intelligence operations. His government has already used voter registration data to purge employees deemed disloyal to the president from the intelligence agencies and other parts of the civil service.
 Several legal activists said Monday that they were studying ways to appeal the law, but the viability of a legal challenge remains unclear.
 ''This is the most scandalous effort to intimidate the population in the 10 years this government has been in power,'' said Rocio San Miguel, a prominent legal scholar who heads a nongovernmental organization that monitors Venezuelan security and defense issues.
 Ms. San Miguel said information her group had collected could be deemed illegal under the new law. The group has data from military sources showing that Mr. Chavez's efforts to create a force of one million reservists had fallen far short.
 ''Under the new law, this information could be considered a threat to national security and I could be sent immediately to jail,'' she said. ''Effectively this is a way to instill fear in NGOs and news organizations and parts of society that remain outside the government's reach.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hugo Chavez in Caracas on Sunday. A law that took effect last week will, his critics say, make informing mandatory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDWIN MONTILVA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (76%); US PATRIOT ACT (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (72%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (63%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN SEA (66%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



72 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: In Mideast, Paulson Offers Reassurances on Dollar

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: ABU DHABI 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. defended the dollar's status as the world's reserve currency and said on Monday that its recent decline was only a small factor behind a surge in oil prices. 
 ''The U.S. dollar has been the world's reserve currency since World War II and there is a good reason for that,'' Mr. Paulson told a business group in the United Arab Emirates.
 ''The United States has the largest, most open economy in the world, and our capital markets are the deepest and most liquid.'' 
 His comments marked a slight strengthening of his recent language on the dollar and could resonate with gulf oil producing states that are struggling with soaring inflation and might be re-evaluating their dollar currency pegs.
 Mr. Paulson is on the final day of a four-day tour to Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates to discuss currency and economic issues with regional leaders and reassure them that the United States remains receptive to their investments.
 In his remarks, he pledged to deal with problems in the American economy that have hurt the dollar's value. ''I am committed to promoting policies that enhance the underlying competitiveness of the U.S. economy and ensure that the dollar remains the world's reserve currency,'' he said.
 He said these include advocating open investment and trade and working to stave off a recession and return capital markets to health. He said the dollar's value would ultimately be reflected in strong long-term fundamentals, which ''compare favorably to any advanced economy in the world.''
 Mr. Paulson said speculation and dollar weakness were not to blame for soaring oil prices and the only way to relieve oil market pressure was to better balance supply and demand.
 He called for more international investment in both oil production and alternative fuels, while ''market distorting'' fuel-price subsidies in many countries should be abandoned.
 Mr. Paulson also said opening up the gulf economies to foreign investment and trade would make them more prosperous and stable.
 ''Remaining closed to investment will have the opposite effect, by inhibiting growth and magnifying domestic economic vulnerabilities,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, spoke on investment policy Monday to a business group in Abu Dhabi. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARWAN NAAMANI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); WORLD WAR II (57%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); QATAR (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



73 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Senate Opens Debate on Politically Risky Bill Addressing Global Warming

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate on Monday opened a raucous debate over climate change legislation even though it will put supporters of the bill, including all three presidential candidates, on the spot -- essentially forcing them to come out in favor of high energy costs at a time when American consumers are paying record fuel prices. 
 While the three candidates are on record favoring legislative action on global warming, the Bush administration opposes a far-reaching bill.
 The measure's sponsors say the nation must take immediate action to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and cut carbon emissions, but many senators in both parties see the legislation as an expensive long-term plan that would do little to solve today's energy supply and price problems. In fact, the legislation is not expected to pass in the Senate this year. 
 The debate, which could last all week, will force senators to take a stand on some of the most difficult, expensive and potentially life-altering questions the world will face in coming decades. 
 And lawmakers on Monday embraced the challenge, voting 74 to 14 in favor of the first of several procedural steps needed to bring the bill to the Senate floor. 
 Thirteen Republicans, including the minority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, voted in opposition as did one Democrat, Robert C. Byrd, from the coal-producing state of West Virginia. 
 Proponents say the nation cannot afford to wait until fuel prices come down to begin to deal with these problems. Opponents argue that the bill would direct the largest changes in the American economy since the 1930s and should not be rushed through without painstaking debate.
 ''There's a great feeling all across America by people in small villages and towns to large cities to state legislatures and others: we must move and move now,'' Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia and a co-sponsor of the bill, said as debate opened on the floor. ''Do something. Doing nothing is not an option. Let us do something.'' 
 But critics of the bill said it would do more harm than good. 
 ''Any action has to provide real protections for the American economy and jobs, and we must protect the American families,'' said Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma. ''Any action should not raise the cost of gasoline or energy to American families, particularly the low-income and elderly who are most susceptible to energy costs.'' 
 The debate is shaping up as both a landmark moment and an opportunity for both sides to score political points. Opponents could pay a price for voting to block legislation that is intended to slow and ultimately reverse production of greenhouse gases that scientists warn are exacting an increasingly heavy environmental toll.
 Even though high energy prices and an overheated political climate pose serious obstacles to such a far-reaching bill this year, whatever the Senate does will set the terms of the debate when a new Congress and president take office next January. 
 The heart of the bill is a plan to cap the production of greenhouse gases that scientists blame for the warming and, for the first time, force polluters to buy permits to emit carbon dioxide. For better or worse, putting a price on those emissions could be a wrenching change.
 All three major presidential candidates have expressed support for the cap-and-trade concept that underlies this legislation, but all have said they would like to see changes in the current bill. The Democratic candidates, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, would like to see its pollution targets strengthened, while Senator John McCain, a Republican, is demanding that it provide more help for the nuclear power industry.
 All three candidates said that their schedules for the week were in flux but that they would participate in debates and votes if they were in Washington.
 The bill's chief promoter, Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, said that the Bush administration had failed to address either energy costs or global warming and that Congress had to step into the breach now. 
 ''There were a lot of voices saying, 'Why do this now? Why do we have to do this now?' '' Mrs. Boxer said, opening the Democrats' argument for the bill. ''Because it is, in fact, one of the greatest challenges of our generation and we have to respond with a landmark bill, and it will take us awhile and we must get started.'' 
 The bill is a revision of a plan proposed last year by Mr. Warner and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut.
 The measure would reduce American production of climate-altering gases by nearly 70 percent from current levels by 2050. It would provide billions of dollars in subsidies for energy conservation and environmentally clean technologies, creating millions of jobs, proponents say.
 The sale of the permits would raise more than $5 trillion for the government in the coming decades, money that the bill proposes to distribute to affected industries, consumers and local governments in one of the biggest programs of redistribution of American wealth in history. The bill's proponents say the money would help pay for a technological leap that would create millions of new jobs while cleaning the atmosphere.
 Given the timing and the range of opposition, it appears unlikely that the bill will pass the Senate. (Similar efforts are under way in the House.) President Bush has stated opposition to the mandatory emissions limits and numerous other provisions.
 But history shows that far-reaching environmental legislation often gets off to a slow start, then passes both houses of Congress and is signed into law when the political time is ripe. ''If we get a majority or even close, we will be that much closer to addressing global warming and passing legislation in the next Congress, whoever the president is,'' said David Doniger, director of climate policy at the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''We may not get it done this year, but if not we start next year just a few steps from the finish line.''
 Senator Bob Corker, a freshman Republican from Tennessee, said in an interview that he favored a cap-and-trade program in theory but found serious flaws in the bill. He will be among those seeking to derail it. 
 ''This bill is not going to become law,'' Mr. Corker said. ''It has no chance, none.''
 Mr. Corker is proposing a string of amendments that Democrats characterize as ''poison pills'' that would undermine the purpose of the legislation. His amendments would return more of the receipts from the carbon permits directly to taxpayers, eliminate the issuance of free permits and do away with the ability of American companies to meet their emissions targets by buying offsets overseas.
 One of the major points of contention arises from the bill's treatment of goods from developing countries that are among the world's biggest carbon emitters, including China, India, Brazil and Mexico.
 The measure directs the president to negotiate agreements with those countries to ensure they are imposing binding limits on carbon emissions on their own industries. If they fail to do so, the United States will impose unspecified tariffs on carbon-intensive products like steel, paper, concrete and glass from those countries. The provision was included at the behest of labor unions and American companies in those industries who would not support the bill without such a cost equalizer.
 In a speech on global warming in mid-May, Mr. McCain endorsed a similar carbon tariff, then backed away from it because of objections from the free-trade wing of theRepublican Party. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama, courting labor support, favor tough carbon-based tariffs.
 Frank Ackerman, an economist at the Global Development and Environment Institute at Tufts University, said that the nation had lost crucial time in not addressing climate change and that other nations were bypassing the United States in the development of alternative energy technologies. Mr. Ackerman acknowledged that the conversion to a low-carbon economy will be costly for many industries and consumers, but said that the cost of inaction is many times greater.
 ''How do you price the increased deaths, the losses of endangered species and unique habitats, the increased damages from hurricanes that are becoming more intense?'' he asked. ''Those numbers dwarf any reasonable estimate of the cost of doing something about climate change. The choice is a no-brainer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An audience listened as legislation was introduced by, from left, Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, Benjamin L. Cardin, Olympia J. Snowe, Barbara Boxer and John Kerry. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); GASOLINE (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); JOHN WARNER (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); BEN CARDIN (58%); JIM INHOFE (58%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); ROBERT BYRD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



74 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Obama, Awaiting a New Title, Carefully Hones His Partisan Image

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

DATELINE: SIOUX FALLS, S.D. 

 BODY:
In his telling, his opponent is wrong on the Iraq war and wrong on the ailing economy, a would-be George W. Bush running for what amounts to a third term.
 ''This is a guy who said I have no knowledge of foreign affairs,'' Senator Barack Obama says, his voice hitting a high C on the incredulity scale, before he adds: ''Well, John McCain was arguing for a war that had nothing to do with 9/11. He was wrong, and he was wrong on the most important subject that confronted our nation.''
 The crowd rises, clapping and cheering at this pleasing whiff of partisan buckshot.
 As Mr. Obama stands poised to claim the crown of presumptive Democratic nominee, he is, gingerly, fitting himself with the cloth of a partisan Democrat despite having long proclaimed himself above such politics. That his shift in tone was inevitable and necessary, particularly as Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, slashes at Mr. Obama as weak on Iran and terrorism, does not entirely diminish the cognitive dissonance. 
 For 17 months, Mr. Obama, of Illinois, has changed remarkably little about his stump style. He projects the image of a post-partisan candidate with the confidence of a man convinced he holds a copyright. 
 ''He is an intensely serious guy whose identity and behavior and tone is pretty rigid, and that's fine,'' said Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic consultant who once worked for former President Bill Clinton and is now unaffiliated with either Democratic candidate. ''The first rule of politics is, if it ain't broke, don't fix it.''
 This might account for the careful manner in which Mr. Obama frames his attacks on Mr. McCain.
 Mr. Obama sets up his political jabs with a to-be-sure-my-opponent-is-not-a-knave disclaimer. He reminds his audiences that Mr. McCain, of Arizona, is a war hero, and he honors his service. (That Mr. Obama's tone sometimes suggests that Mr. McCain, 71, might have been a Civil War veteran is surely coincidental.)
 When a question is raised about Mr. McCain's recent, incorrect assertion that the number of American troops in Iraq is at ''pre-surge levels,'' Mr. Obama waves his hand magnanimously. Everyone, he tells listeners, makes a slip of the tongue.
 At this point Mr. Obama slips the rhetorical shiv into his rival.
 ''The problem is that John McCain can't admit he made a slip, and we've seen this movie before,'' Mr. Obama told an audience in Great Falls, Mont. ''Just like George Bush, John McCain refuses to admit a mistake.''
 Mr. Obama's advisers argue, gamely if implausibly, that he has not dipped his cup into a partisan well. ''I don't look at it as partisanship,'' said Robert Gibbs, Mr. Obama's communications director. ''I look at it as a difference of philosophy.''
 Mr. Obama remains a stirring speaker, and he has three or four stories that he tells consistently and well. But for all his oratory -- and he can move audiences to tears and shouted professions of love -- Mr. Obama is no emotional bleeding heart.
 Some months back in Ohio, he sat at a round table of six late-middle-aged women who were struggling with the indignities of poor heath and ailing finances. Afterward, Mr. Obama confided that one woman, with her humor and hopeful manner, reminded him of his mother, who died of cancer at age 53. As she spoke, he said he despaired that he could not help her immediately.
 But while his manner was attentive at that round table, Mr. Obama gave little hint of his fierce emotional undercurrents. His rival for the Democratic presidential nomination, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, tends to excel in this province of the private. He does not.
 ''He is a public speaker; Hillary is a private speaker,'' said Mr. Sheinkopf. ''Do not expect great moments of emotional connection; expect great moments of emotional direction.''
 Mr. Gibbs, the communications director, agreed, to a point. ''There is a performance art aspect to this that I don't think came naturally to him at first,'' he said.
 But Mr. Obama is an agile student of politics. At a town-hall-style meeting last week in Rapid City, S.D., he wandered into the crowd to talk with a middle school student who had inquired about Mr. Obama's views on immigration.
 ''You seem like a pretty sharp guy,'' Mr. Obama told him.
 ''Thank you,'' the boy replied.
 ''You want to go into politics?''
 The boy shook his head. ''I want to do film.''
 Mr. Obama broke into a broad smile. ''Film? Excuuuse me!''
 Soon they were bantering about the comparative merits of ''The Godfather'' and ''Apocalypse Now.''
 In style of dress, Mr. Obama ends as he started: a studiously formal fellow. When he bowled in Pennsylvania, he did so in a white shirt and tie. (This added to the derision over his low bowling score.) When he visited Mount Rushmore last Saturday evening, no reporter was much surprised to see him strolling through the inky darkness in his suit jacket with his tie knotted just so.
 There is, however, good reason for a candidate to be a careful custodian of his image. As Mr. Obama, 46, is a young man by the standards of presidential politics, the formal lends gravitas. 
 And the list of presidential candidates who have tried midcampaign image makeovers is a long and unfortunate one, filled with formal politicians who try flannel shirts and wonkish governors who push Army helmets down over their hair.
 The more successful candidates, from Theodore and Franklin Roosevelt through Harry S. Truman, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton, tend to comfortably inhabit a single, consistent personality.
 When it comes to Mr. Obama, a certain comic aspect attends to these fashion deconstructions. He is like a minimalist musician hitting a new note; the slightest change in his look excites speculation. Are you sure he undid his tie?! What depths of emotion must roil beneath that cotton dress shirt!
 Mr. Gibbs recalled a fashion columnist who analyzed Mr. Obama's penchant for not unbuttoning his second button when he rolled up his sleeves.
 It was this familiar Mr. Obama who could be found on a sunny Sunday afternoon in Mitchell, S.D., standing on a riser by the Corn Palace, which with soaring onion domes and corn-stalk walls suggested a hallucinatory Kremlin rendered in maize. He had those shirt sleeves rolled up, and told a few well-received old chestnuts.
 All standard operating procedure, and as the applause washed over, Mr. Obama mentioned a fellow senator who was a war hero. Except, well, it turned out this hero supported suspending the federal gasoline tax for three months, and that is just pandering.
 ''That's a gimmick, O.K.?'' Mr. Obama said. ''It's to get a politician through the next election.'' And so it goes as Mr. Obama gallops off into the general election.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama, campaigning Monday in Troy, Mich., has sharpened his political attacks against Senator John McCain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CIVIL WAR (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TERRORISM (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (65%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



75 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: A Gift To The G.O.P.

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Talk about self-inflicted wounds.
 The Democrats may finally be stepping away from their circular firing squad. It took them long enough. 
 There are so many things that the Democrats need to do to have any chance of winning the White House in November, and it's awfully late in the game to begin doing them.
 Only now is the party starting to rally around Senator Barack Obama, who has been the likely nominee for the longest time. No one knows how long it will take to move beyond the fratricidal conflict that was made unnecessarily bitter by Bill and Hillary Clinton. 
 The cry of ''McCain in '08!'' at the Democratic rules committee meeting in Washington over the weekend came from a supporter of Senator Hillary Clinton. 
 It reminded me of Bill Clinton's comment that ''it would be a great thing if we had an election year where you had two people who loved this country and were devoted to the interest of this country.''
 He was talking about Hillary Clinton and John McCain. The former president's comment played right into the sustained effort by opponents of Barack Obama to portray the senator as some kind of alien figure, less than patriotic, not fully American, too strange by half to be handed the reins of government.
 Senator Obama's effort to counter that line of attack has been all-but-completely undermined by the incredible shrieking pastors from the Trinity United Church of Christ in Chicago, a place that might be good for the soul but is potentially ruinous for a presidential aspirant.
 First came the Rev. Jeremiah Wright Jr. with his videotaped, over-the-top sermons. He didn't just criticize the United States, but damned it. The Wright controversy was a body blow to the Obama campaign, and it hasn't fully recovered yet. 
 I made a crack in a column last week that Senator Clinton, who had no discernible route to her party's nomination, was waiting for a Rev. Wright on steroids to burst into view. 
 Within days, we had the astounding video of the Rev. Michael Pfleger, a Catholic priest who put on a grotesque performance in the church that could hardly have been more racially offensive toward white people or more personally offensive toward Senator Clinton. 
 His rant, cheered by the audience, was one of the worst I've seen in many years. Senator Obama announced on Saturday that he had quit the church.
 This was supposed to have been the Democrats' year. But instead of marching to victory, the party has been at war with itself in some of the ugliest ways imaginable. There was a time, not that long ago, when Democratic voters were crowing about how happy they were with all (or almost all) of the potential nominees.
 But the Clinton and Obama partisans spent months fighting bitterly on the toxic terrain of misogyny, racism and religion. It can only make you wonder about the vaunted Democratic claims of moral superiority when it comes to tolerance.
 This should have been the year when the Democrats just hammered the Republicans over the economy, the war, energy policy, health care, appointments to the Supreme Court, the failure to rebuild New Orleans, and so on. The list of important issues on which the Republicans are vulnerable is endless.
 Instead of running for cover, the G.O.P. is growing ever more confident that it will be tossing inaugural balls for John and Cindy McCain come January.
 There is no end of blame to be apportioned among the Democrats. The Clintons have behaved execrably. But weak-willed party leaders showed neither the courage nor the inclination to stop them from fracturing the party along gender and ethnic lines. 
 As for Senator Obama, he's been mired in a series of problems of his own -- problems that have done serious damage to the very idea that brought him to national prominence in the first place: that he was a new breed of political leader, a unifying candidate who could begin to narrow the partisan divides of race, class and even, to some extent, political persuasion.
 Can the Democrats still get their act together?
 Only if they hurry. The party will have to exhibit extraordinary unity, coming together quickly to heal the wounds of this long and bitter primary. Senator Obama will have to develop (again, quickly) an exceptionally compelling economic program while trying to strengthen his appeal across ethnic and class lines.
 The Democrats have done far more damage to themselves than the G.O.P. could ever have inflicted. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); RELIGION (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (75%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



76 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Calling Dr. Doom

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
It took Christopher Columbus about 70 days to get to the New World -- a bit less than half as long as it took us to get through the 2008 primary calendar. But by Tuesday night, we'll have reached our destination, and people in the Obama and McCain camps are feeling good about themselves.
 Neither campaign is planning a major pivot for the fall. Both are confident they have a strategy for victory. 
 So my role today is Dr. Doom -- to break through unmerited confidence and raise the anxiety level in both camps. 
 Since effectively wrapping up the nomination, Barack Obama has lost 7 of the last 13 primaries. Obama's confidants say that this doesn't matter. In states like Pennsylvania and Ohio, primary election results are no predictor of general election results. 
 That's dubious. Though voters now prefer Democratic policy positions on most major issues by between 11 and 25 points, Obama has only a 0.7 percent lead over McCain in the RealClearPolitics average of polls. His favorability ratings among independents has dropped from 63 percent to 49 percent since late February. 
 Furthermore, Obama has spent the past several months rolling up his sleeves and furiously courting working-class votes. It doesn't seem to be working. Ron Brownstein of the National Journal calculates that Obama did no better among those voters in a late state like Pennsylvania than he did for 26 out of 29 earlier primary states where he lost the working class. 
 There is something about his magic that resonates powerfully with the well-educated but doesn't translate with the less-educated. As a result, you get all these odd poll results. Voters agree with Obama's original position on Iraq, but according to the Pew Research Center, they trust McCain more to handle the issue. 
 We haven't had two presidential candidates as far removed from the mainstream suburban lifestyle. McCain's family has been military for generations. But Obama's path through the university towns is particularly elusive. 
 Peter Hart did a focus group for the Annenberg Public Policy Center with independent voters in Virginia that captured reactions you hear all the time. These independent voters were intrigued by Obama's ''change'' message, but they knew almost nothing about him except that he used to go to the Rev. Jeremiah Wright's church. It's as if they can't hang Obama's life onto anything from their own immediate experiences and, as a result, he is an abstraction. As Hart points out, people's inability to come up with a clear narrative about Obama could make it easy to label him in the fall.
 Finally, the Obama people are too convinced that they can define McCain as Bush III. The case is just factually inaccurate. McCain will be able to pull out dozens of instances, from torture to global warming to spending, in which he broke with his party, as Rush Limbaugh will tell you. 
 The Republican camp, meanwhile, is possessed of the belief that Obama is a charming lightweight. Republican senators have contempt for Obama's post-partisan image, arguing that he and his staff refused to even participate in backroom bipartisan discussion groups. 
 But Obama is far from a lightweight, as Republicans will learn if he agrees to do joint town meetings with McCain. McCain's jabs that Obama is naive will backfire. In this climate, a candidate can't define the other guy, only himself. When McCain attacks Obama for being naive, all voters see is McCain being sour and negative.
 More fundamentally, McCain's problem is that his party is unfit to govern. As research from the Republican pollster David Winston has shown, any policy becomes less popular when people learn that Republicans are supporting it. If the G.O.P. sponsored the sunrise, voters would prefer gloom. Many Republicans are under the illusion that they are in trouble because they've betrayed their core principles. The sad truth is that if they'd been more conservative, they'd be even further behind. 
 I've spent the past few years trying to find conservative experts to provide remedies for middle-class economic anxiety. Let me tell you, the state of free-market thinking on this subject is pathetic. There are a few creative thinkers (most of them under 30), but for the most part, McCain is forced to run in an intellectual void. 
 Today, he is scheduled to give a forceful speech on why ''reform'' is better than ''change.'' He plans to describe how to remobilize government and address economic anxiety. But McCain's reform message is only being carried by him and a few bloggers. Obama can draw on a coherent body of economic work and 10,000 unified voices.
 This election will be asymmetric. Obama has to come up with a personal narrative voters can relate to. McCain needs to come up with a one-sentence description for why he represents a clean break and a compelling future. 
 Neither campaign has done that. I don't know what they're so happy about. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); FOCUS GROUPS (67%); SUBURBS (50%)

COMPANY: FORBES INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



77 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 559 words

 BODY:
NEW CHIEF FOR WACHOVIAG. Kennedy Thompson was ousted as Wachovia's chief executive after the bank's board held him accountable for billions in write-offs and a plunge in the bank's stock price. 
 APPEAL IN GRASSO CASERichard A. Grasso, below, the former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, could finally be allowed to keep a $185 million award that once made him a symbol of Wall Street greed. The state is now appealing despite facing a higher legal burden to prove its case. [C1.]
 COMMODITIES INQUIRY Regulators of the United States commodity markets are demanding information to determine whether investors are artificially driving up world food prices. [C1.]
 MR. BILL IS BACK Mr. Bill, the cartoon character from ''Saturday Night Live'' known for his fal- setto ''oh, nooooo!'', is being revived by MasterCard as a debit-card holder who gets roughed up but keeps on going. [C1.]
 LESSON IN GREED Like most fables about money and power, the Dow Chemical one starts with greed. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.] 
 BUSINESS AS USUAL AT STUDIO It was pretty much business as usual at Universal's studio lot, where a fire on Sunday burned structures on two square blocks. [C3.]
 GOING AGAINST ADVICE AT YAHOOJerry Yang, Yahoo's chief executive, pushed for an expensive plan to retain employees if it were to be acquired by Microsoft despite reservations of some fellow executives and of a consulting firm, court documents show. [C10.]
 A MICROSOFT-HEWLETT DEAL Microsoft has made a deal with Hewlett-Packard to place a toolbar on H-P's new PCs that leads to Microsoft's Live Search engine. [C10.]
 SETTLEMENT BY BROCADE Brocade Communications Systems, a maker of data-storage network switches, has agreed to settle a class-action lawsuit related to backdated stock options. [C7.] 
 CELEBRATING THE EURO Various European dignitaries gathered in Frankfurt's elegant Old Opera to pay tribute to the currency that many critics said would never succeed. [C3.] 
 30 MONTHS FOR KICKBACKS Melvyn I. Weiss, the class-action lawyer, was sentenced by a federal district judge in Los Angeles to 30 months in prison and fined for his role in concealing illegal kickbacks to plaintiffs. [C3.] 
 HARDER TIME FOR AIRLINES With oil prices high and economies slow, the International Air Transport Association has sharply lowered the industry's outlook for 2008. [C4.]
 A SUCCESSFUL CONCEPT Boutique hotels, usually old buildings converted into expensive lodging, have become so successful that hoteliers of all sizes and price ranges are rushing to develop them. [C6.]
 TAKING CARE WHEN GOING GREEN Hotels that care about the environment often have a delicate balancing act. The smart ones are improving communication among guests, management and employees. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C6.] 
 STAGFLATION WORRIES United States manufacturing was off in May for the fourth consecutive month while inflation rose to its highest in four years, heightening fears of stagflation. [C5.] 
 DEFENDING THE DOLLAR Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. defended the dollar's status as the world's reserve currency in a speech in the United Arab Emirates. [C5.]
 BRITISH LENDER SEEKS HELP Bradford & Bingley, a British mortgage lender, has asked for emergency help from investors and has cut the price of a planned share sale as more borrowers default on its mortgages. [C2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (83%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); SENTENCING (77%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (72%); FOOD PRICES (72%); JUDGES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); CRIMINAL FINES (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (63%); CIVIL AVIATION (61%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (60%); AIRLINES (60%); STOCK OPTIONS (57%); NETWORK STORAGE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (57%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); BROCADE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS INC (53%); BOUTIQUE HOTELS (51%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (51%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); DOW (SWX) (55%); DOW (NYSE) (55%); DOW (LSE) (55%); 4850 (TSE) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); BRCD (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (53%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: G KENNEDY THOMPSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



78 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Wachovia Forces Out Its Chief

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
G. Kennedy Thompson spent 32 years building the Wachovia Corporation into one of the nation's biggest banks. But late last Thursday, as problems at Wachovia continued to worsen, the company's chairman gave Mr. Thompson the bad news: his career at the bank was over.
 The ouster of Mr. Thompson as chief executive, announced Monday morning, leaves the Charlotte, N.C.-based bank confronting an uncertain future. Some see Mr. Thompson's hasty exit as a sign that the troubles at Wachovia -- and indeed at many banks -- will continue to deepen as credit problems spread. 
 The news of Mr. Thompson's abrupt departure unsettled Wall Street and contributed to a broad decline in financial stocks on Monday. It also came on a day when Washington Mutual, the nation's largest savings and loan, stripped its chief executive of the chairman's title, a step Wachovia took with Mr. Thompson less than a month ago. 
 Mr. Thompson, who is 58, was finally forced out after Wachovia's board held him accountable for a series of missteps, including more than $5 billion in write-offs on mortgage-related debt. 
 But the problems at Wachovia, while not as severe as those at many other banks, are likely to get worse, analysts said, posing significant challenges for whoever fills Mr. Thompson's shoes. Losses tied to home and auto loans are rising, and Wachovia's exposure to commercial real estate could hurt it if the economy sinks into a deeper funk. 
 Lanty L. Smith, Wachovia's chairman, will serve as interim chief executive while the bank searches for a new leader. There is no clear successor, however, and financial players from New York to North Carolina were buzzing about what Wachovia's next steps might be.
 Wachovia faces a difficult road. While the bank has long been seen as a possible merger partner for Wells Fargo or JPMorgan Chase, the timing may not be right for a deal. For now, Wachovia is likely to move ahead as an independent company. 
 Just over three weeks ago, Wachovia's board had signaled its unhappiness when it stripped Mr. Thompson of his chairman role. Wachovia's stock price has been pounded since the bank made an ill-timed acquisition of a California mortgage lender in May 2006, and the stock has fallen 57 percent over the past year amid a steady drumbeat of disappointing results.
 Mr. Smith gave Mr. Thompson the bad news on Thursday in Mr. Thompson's 40th-floor office in Charlotte. Mr. Smith had personally persuaded the other board members to hasten Mr. Thompson's exit, according to people briefed on the situation. Mr. Thompson was said to be stunned.
 But Mr. Smith brushed aside suggestions that Mr. Thompson's abrupt exit was related to new troubles at the bank.
 ''There is no new problem to announce,'' he said on a conference call on Monday. ''This is simply a series of previously disclosed disappointments and setbacks that cumulatively say a change at the top can be very good for our company.''
 Ben Jenkins, Wachovia's current president and a longtime banker, will serve as its interim chief operating officer. But the board's decision to oust Mr. Thompson without naming his replacement suggests reluctance about choosing an insider.
 Mr. Jenkins, who is 64, has overseen Wachovia's widely admired retail operations. But he may be viewed as too close to retirement if the board's objective is to ''revitalize and reenergize'' the bank. 
 David Carroll, the 51-year-old head of Wachovia's brokerage group, is seen internally as a potential successor, but may lack the needed experience. As Mr. Thompson's right-hand man who oversaw the integration of several big deals, he may also be too closely linked to the old regime.
 But choosing an outsider has its own risks. For one, there are relatively few candidates with strong records in consumer banking, Wachovia's biggest and most important business. 
 One possible choice might be Robert P. Kelly, Wachovia's former finance chief who is now the chief executive of Bank of New York-Mellon, but a company spokesman said he was not interested in the job . Another is Michael A. Neal of General Electric's commercial finance unit. 
 Others prospects, like David Coulter, a former Bank of America executive, or David Moffett, formerly at U.S. Bancorp, are now working at private equity firms. 
 For Mr. Thompson, the news brings a sudden end to an eight-year run as chief executive. Wachovia is billing his departure as a ''retirement'' and will give him an exit package worth $34.5 million, the bulk in accumulated stock, according to James F. Reda & Associates. Mr. Thompson was paid more than $44.3 million since 2000, according to an analysis by Equilar. 
 Mr. Thompson, a former investment banker who worked out in the Y.M.C.A. gym in Wachovia's headquarters, was highly regarded by many employees for his straight-shooting, approachable style. On Wall Street, his ability to pull off a difficult turnaround with First Union in 2001 earned him plaudits as an operator with strong financial discipline. He balked at deals for FleetBoston Financial in 2004, and MBNA a year later, insisting that a crosstown rival, Bank of America, was overpaying. 
 But bad deals eventually hastened Mr. Thompson's undoing. In May 2006, near the peak of the housing boom, Wachovia paid $25.5 billion for Golden West Financial, a thrift that specialized in pay-option mortgages. Analysts criticized the deal from the start. Mr. Thompson was forced to hold a special conference to reassure investors after Wachovia's stock price plummeted. 
 Last February, Mr. Thompson acknowledged ''that the timing was poor'' for the transaction. But Wachovia's problems continued to mount. 
 The bank has also struggled to integrate the A.G. Edwards brokerage firm it bought a year ago, settled with regulators over allegations that it abetted a telemarketing fraud and has been forced to restate its first-quarter earnings this year. 
 Mr. Thompson's ouster also may hold lessons for others. On Monday, Washington Mutual's board stripped Kerry K. Killinger, its chief, of his chairman title. Some say Mr. Killinger's days as chief may be numbered.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: G. Kennedy Thompson was ousted as chief of Wachovia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHUCK BURTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Lanty L. Smith, chairman of Wachovia, will act as chief. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WACHOVIA, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); MERGERS (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (64%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (98%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (56%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (98%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%)

PERSON: G KENNEDY THOMPSON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (88%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008



79 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Making Trouble for Lehman

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
David Einhorn thinks another big Wall Street bank is headed for trouble -- and he is not being quiet about it. 
 For eight months now, Mr. Einhorn, a rabble-rousing hedge fund manager, has pilloried the venerable Lehman Brothers in an effort to drive down the bank's stock price, which he is betting against.
 Lehman Brothers is not amused. In recent weeks, the bank's chief financial officer, Erin Callan, has tried privately to rebut Mr. Einhorn to nervous investors, who have feared for Lehman's health ever since Bear Stearns succumbed to a panic. But despite Ms. Callan's efforts, Lehman's stock keeps falling: It tumbled 9.5 percent more on Tuesday, in a deluge of selling, bringing its loss for the last 12 months to 59 percent. 
 The battle over Lehman has captivated Wall Street and left the bank struggling over what to do next. The bank, which is expected to post a quarterly loss of roughly $1 billion in a few weeks, may also raise capital to shore up investor confidence. The bank has sold more than $100 billion in assets in recent months to shore up its finances, according to a person close to the company. That person said new capital would most likely come from a source other than the public markets. 
 Mr. Einhorn, who runs a $6 billion hedge fund called Greenlight Capital, has been profiting from the Lehman's growing pain. Critics say he is needlessly fanning fears about the precarious health of the financial industry at the very moment executives are struggling to stabilize their ailing companies. Many on Wall Street still wonder if hedge funds like Greenlight helped bring down Bear Stearns and spread false rumors about the bank, a possibility the Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating. 
 In an interview on Monday in his Midtown offices, Mr. Einhorn, fresh from his latest round of television appearances, said he was not out to tell Lehman Brothers how to fix its problems. He questioned how the company valued the assets on its books, and whether it was disclosing all the risks it faces. Investors have good reason to question banks: Worldwide, financial companies have suffered more than $380 billion in write-downs and credit-related losses in the last year, laying bare their shoddy risk management. Lehman has been singled out because of the large role it played in the mortgage market and its reluctance to disclose information about its assets compared with other Wall Street banks.
 ''Lehman has been one of the deniers,'' Mr. Einhorn, 39, said. 
 Mr. Einhorn said he began betting against Lehman's stock last July, and he has been right so far. But things have not always gone his way. His long battle against the Allied Capital Corporation prompted the S.E.C. to investigate comments he had made about that company, an episode he discusses in his new book, ''Fooling Some of the People All of the Time,'' which he is busy promoting. And he was a board member and longtime fan of the New Century Financial Corporation, a big subprime mortgage company that filed for bankruptcy last year. 
 Still, Mr. Einhorn could be a thorn in Lehman's side for years to come. For six years he has been using a short trade as a way to bet against a rise in the stock price of Allied Capital and MBIA, the bond reinsurance company. 
 ''He's got a lot of conviction, and he persists in his convictions for a long time,'' said Adam Zoia, managing partner of Glocap, a recruiter in New York that has worked for Mr. Einhorn. 
 Mr. Einhorn instigated the latest dive in Lehman's stock price two weeks ago when he encouraged other investors to short the stock at a large conference in New York. When Standard & Poor's lowered its debt rating for Lehman and several other Wall Street banks on Monday, Mr. Einhorn joined the ratings agency's conference call on Tuesday and asked whether the agency reviews Lehman's valuations of its assets. 
 Ms. Callan, 42, spent an hour on the phone with Mr. Einhorn answering questions before his speech. Afterwards, she found herself rebutting some of his assertions to investors. 
 On Tuesday, Lehman issued a public statement denying market rumors that it had turned to Federal Reserve for cash through a special program put in place after Bear Stearns collapsed. Ms. Callan and other Lehman executives declined to comment on Mr. Einhorn for this article.
 It is impossible to quantify Mr. Einhorn's influence on Lehman's stock price. But hours before his speech two weeks ago, trading volume exploded for Lehman stock puts, which are options to sell the stock and profit if its falls. That day, more than 200,000 put contracts against Lehman were sold, up 49 percent from recent typical Lehman put trading. 
 Brad Hintz, the banking analyst at the Sanford C. Bernstein & Company and Lehman's former chief financial officer, said he could hardly walk a few feet at a conference at the Waldorf-Astoria last week without having investors ask him about Mr. Einhorn's views. 
 Lehman's management has spoken with some analysts about Mr. Einhorn, but they have declined to comment publicly beyond a statement that says Mr. Einhorn ''cherry picks'' and misconstrues information.
 ''They're furious,'' Mr. Hintz said. ''If you get distrust of your accounting, then it affects the valuation of the company forever going forward.''
 Within Lehman, workers are calling Mr. Einhorn's strategy ''short and distort.'' Many hedge fund managers talk freely with one another about companies, but they typically shun publicity. Mr. Einhorn, by contrast, is working with a financial public relations firm, the Gordon Group, to promote his book and views on stocks.
 ''His position on shorting Lehman is only going to get traction and be successful if he can succeed in convincing people to drive down the stock,'' said Michael Claes, a managing director at the public relations firm Burson-Marsteller. ''That's best accomplished with media exposure.''
 But Mr. Einhorn's public approach leaves him open to being criticized himself. Mr. Hintz of Sanford Bernstein said in a report on Monday that supporters of Mr. Einhorn's latest arguments are ''piling on'' against Ms. Callan. And Buckingham Research Group said his concerns were ''just wrong.'' 
 ''These recent criticisms also seem will-timed to take advantage of the market's concern around weak second-quarter results that we expect for Lehman,'' the Buckingham analysts wrote in a report. 
 Lehman, to be sure, will have to explain its second-quarter earnings to be announced in the next two weeks. Ms. Callan has said the bank will take more write-downs and that some hedge trades were not effective. 
 Lehman, like its counterparts, is racing to use less leverage. The bank had a gross leverage ratio of 31.7:1 at the end of the first quarter, meaning it had borrowed $31.70 for each dollar of equity. Lehman has whittled that ratio down to 25:1 through its more than $100 billion in asset sales, said the person close to the company who was given anonymity because he was discussing a pending financial filing. A small amount of the sales were to two hedge funds set up by former Lehman executives.
 Mr. Einhorn likes to point out that Lehman's management has incentives to be positive since compensation is tied to performance. Short sellers, he said, receive undue skepticism, and he said he thought he would be getting far less attention if he were discussing a positive view on a company.
 Aside from Lehman, Mr. Einhorn would not say if he is long or short other financial companies. But Greenlight Capital has twice as much money invested in long positions across its entire portfolio than it does shorts, he said. So a collapse of Lehman that turned into a broad economic panic could hurt Mr. Einhorn, too. 
 He said he would keep the Lehman trade going until he is proven right -- or wrong.
 ''The faster the better,'' Mr. Einhorn said, ''but the world doesn't work on my schedule.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Einhorn has bet against Lehman. Erin Callan, the bank's chief financial officer, seeks to calm nervous investors.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEFT, DANIEL BARRY/BLOOMBERG NEWS
RIGHT, LEHMAN BROTHERS)(pg. C1)
 The headquarters in New York of Lehman Brothers last month. The bank is trying to bolster its stock, which lost 9.5 percent on Tuesday and has fallen 59 percent in the last 12 months.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS)(pg. C10) CHART: Hard Times: Lehman Brothers stock price has declined sharply since last summer.(Source: Bloomberg) Chart shows line graph for Lehman Brothers. (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); ALLIED CAPITAL CORP (81%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



80 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Time For Radical Pragmatism

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: Ramallah, West Bank 

 BODY:
 When I reported from Israel in the mid-1980s, the big debate here was whether Israel's settlement-building in the West Bank had passed a point of no return -- a point where any serious withdrawal became virtually impossible to imagine. The question was often framed as: ''Is it five minutes to midnight or five minutes after midnight?'' Well, having taken a little drive through part of the West Bank, as I always do when I visit, it strikes me more than ever that it's not only five after midnight, it's five after midnight and a whole week later.
 The West Bank today is an ugly quilt of high walls, Israeli checkpoints, ''legal'' and ''illegal'' Jewish settlements, Arab villages, Jewish roads that only Israeli settlers use, Arab roads and roadblocks. This hard and heavy reality on the ground is not going to be reversed by any conventional peace process. ''The two-state solution is disappearing,'' said Mansour Tahboub, senior editor, at the West Bank newspaper Al-Ayyam. 
 Indeed, we are at a point now where the only thing that might work is what I would call ''radical pragmatism'' -- a pragmatism that is as radical and energetic as the extremism that it hopes to nullify. Without that, I fear, Israel will remain permanently pregnant with a stillborn Palestinian state in its belly.
 Why we need a radical departure is obvious: the business-as-usual course that Israelis and Palestinians are on right now does not have enough energy or authority to produce a solution. With the encouragement of the Bush administration, Israel and the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank are negotiating a draft peace treaty that supposedly will be put on the shelf, until the Palestinians have enough capability to implement it. I seriously doubt that the parties will reach an agreement, let alone have the energy to implement it.
 The Israeli-Palestinian energy shortage today is on three levels: First is the level of hope and trust. Ever since the breakdown of the Oslo agreement, the romance has gone out of the peace process. Israelis and Palestinians remind me of a couple who, after a stormy courtship, finally get married and one year after they tie the knot they each cheat on the other: Israelis kept on building settlements and the Palestinians kept on building hate. When you cheat and have war after peace, trust vanishes for a long time. 
 The trust deficit is exacerbated by the fact that after Israel quit the Gaza Strip in 2005, Palestinians, instead of building Singapore there, built Somalia and focused not on how to make microchips, but on how to make rockets to hit Israel.
 The second energy shortage comes from the fact that Israel, with the wall that it has erected around the West Bank, has so effectively shut down Palestinian suicide bombers that the Israeli public right now feels no sense of urgency, especially with the Israeli economy booming. The West Bank behind the wall might as well be in Afghanistan.
 ''Today, you have neither the romanticism of the peace process before Oslo fell apart nor a visible disaster knocking at the gates of Israel's consciousness,'' noted the Haaretz columnist Ari Shavit.
 The third energy shortage is the fact that the political system in both Israel and among the Palestinians is so internally divided that neither one can generate the authority to take a big decision.
 Only the U.S. can overcome this diplomatic brownout by offering some radical pragmatism, and the logic would be this: If Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas does not get control over at least part of the West Bank soon, he will have no authority to sign any draft peace treaty with Israel. He will be totally discredited. 
 But Israel cannot cede control over any part of the West Bank without being assured that someone credible is in charge. Rockets from Gaza land on the remote Israeli town of Sderot. Rockets from the West Bank could hit, and close, Israel's international airport. That is an intolerable risk. Israel has got to start ceding control over at least part of the West Bank but in a way that doesn't expose the Jewish state to closure of its airport.
 Radical pragmatism would say that the only way to balance the Palestinians' need for sovereignty now with Israel's need for a withdrawal now, but without creating a security vacuum, is to enlist a trusted third party -- Jordan -- to help the Palestinians control whatever West Bank land is ceded to them. Jordan does not want to rule the Palestinians, but it, too, has a vital interest in not seeing the West Bank fall under Hamas rule. 
 Without a radically pragmatic new approach -- one that gets Israel moving out of the West Bank, gets the Palestinian Authority real control and sovereignty, but one which also addresses the deep mistrust by bringing in Jordan as a Palestinian partner -- any draft treaty will be dead on arrival. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (88%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



81 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: In South Florida, Eviction Spares Few

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
In a decade handling evictions for the Miami-Dade County Police Department, Albert Fernandez has run across a middle-class father bankrupted by his daughter's cancer treatment; an old woman scammed by a gambling husband; and countless families perpetually on the edge of poverty. 
 But he has never turned out as many people as he does now. 
 It used to take a day or two for officers to get to an address after tenants received a notice to leave. Now, with evictions up by roughly a third over last year, Miami-Dade's backlog is around two weeks, sometimes longer. 
 ''It is what it is,'' Officer Fernandez said, looking at a list of addresses about to be emptied. ''People of all walks of life are getting evicted.'' 
 If South Florida is a barometer for the housing crisis and the economy, the forecast does not look good. Like other areas nationwide, evictions are rising throughout the state, clogging county courts and spawning a boom in companies that specialize in ''eviction services'' like moving furniture to the curb. 
 In the first three months of this year, Broward County tallied 3,043 eviction requests -- more than it has received in the same period since at least 1999, and an increase of 54 percent over last year. In Miami-Dade, landlords filed for 4,726 evictions from January through April, up 1,157 from the first four months of last year.
 Much of the rise comes from foreclosures, which in Miami-Dade County jumped to 311 in January 2008 from 38 in January 2007, but more renters and business owners are also finding themselves unable to pay the bills. 
 In many cases, one failure leads to another. Owners, banks, renters and developers have become like prisoners attached by ankle chains: when one falls, the others slip too. 
 Visits to nearly a dozen properties with Officer Fernandez and his partner, Officer Charles Veiga, included several stops in which both renters and owners seemed to be struggling. 
 Around noon, the officers pulled into a comfortable development in Doral, where a young woman in a red shirt could be seen carrying large garbage bags out of a second-story apartment. 
 The woman, who identified herself only as Maria, said that she was an accountant, a mother of three, and that she was being evicted because of a double whammy: she had fallen behind in paying the $1,450 a month in rent and her landlord could no longer afford the mortgage and condominium fees, pushing the property toward foreclosure. 
 The problems, she said, began about a year ago when the estranged father of her children lost his job at a mortgage company and stopped paying regular child support. 
 ''The situation is bad for everyone -- me, the landlord, the father of my kids too,'' said Maria, 36, who would only give her first name because she feared her new landlord would discover her financial troubles. She added that after nearly a decade in Miami, she had started asking relatives in Guatemala for help. 
 ''It's ridiculous to have to move money from my country to here,'' she said. ''This is not how it's supposed to be.''
 At another apartment building in an older, poorer area, the owner, Concepcion Rosado, 71, arrived and confronted a couple that had stopped paying the rent several months ago after four years in the apartment. 
 Tears streamed down the cheeks of Alisa Soriano, 48, as she begged for mercy in a dark, sparsely furnished living room. The rent was $640 a month. She said she would find work soon and so would her boyfriend, a carpenter who stood beside her, silent, with paint splotched on his jeans. 
 ''I won't fail you,'' Ms. Soriano told her landlord in Spanish, between wails. ''I won't fail you. I won't fail you.''
 Mrs. Rosado nodded. In her hand, she held the tenants' final effort: $300 in cash and a check for $700. ''It's just that I have to pay taxes,'' she said. ''I have to pay insurance. It's very complicated.''
 Ms. Soriano cried. ''Ay, Dios mio,'' Mrs. Rosado said.
 The couple had bounced checks in the past and $1,000 was not enough to cover their back rent. But Mrs. Rosado and her daughter, Vivian, a real estate lawyer, decided to let them stay, at least for another month. ''We know these are hard times,'' Vivian Rosado said.
 Back in the patrol car, Officer Fernandez agreed. ''Sometimes we go to the same apartment building three, four times a week,'' he said. 
 The neighborhoods have varied, from the upper-middle class to the down and out. In recent years, he has done evictions on properties owned or inhabited by drug dealers, former N.F.L. stars and renters who try to hide by removing the numbers of their address. 
 ''The hardest ones are the old ladies,'' Officer Fernandez said. Many have been victimized by relatives who took out a home equity loan, often with a forged signature, and then never paid the money back. 
 ''It's tough,'' he said. ''You think of them as your grandmother or grandfather.''
 These days, however, most houses are empty when the police arrive. 
 Many evictions go something like what occurred when Officer Fernandez pulled into the parking lot at the Villas at Midway, where a bank had foreclosed two weeks earlier on a two-story condominium. 
 Christopher J. Fedor was waiting with a drill in hand. ''We do evictions, trash outs, rehabs,'' he said. 
 Mr. Fedor had been hired by HSBC, the bank that now owned the property. His job was to change the lock, check the property for damage and clean it out.
 In this case, the apartment was nearly spotless. Often, items have been left behind. At one apartment Officer Fernandez visited last week, there was a single white tube sock on the floor of an upstairs bedroom; at another, a teddy bear with blue feet smiled from the top of a dirty stove. 
 ''We had one the other day with a three-foot-long snake under a bed where a baby had been sleeping,'' Mr. Fedor said, his voice echoing off the blank walls and tile floors. ''Miami-Dade fire and rescue had to take it away.''
 Mr. Fedor seemed busy, determined, even a bit frantic with the energy of an entrepreneur in the midst of a boom. He said his company, Florida Field Services, started doing evictions a year ago. Since then, he said, business has doubled. 
 ''We work seven days a week,'' he said. 
 Owners of other eviction companies, like Proeviction.com, which offers help with an eviction in any Florida County for around $400, also said customers seemed to be lining up. When they were asked if they saw any sign of a turnaround, of the market's bottom, their answers were clear. 
 ''We see it getting worse,'' Mr. Fedor said. ''And worse. And worse.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eviction notices like this one are being served more frequently in South Florida.
Albert Fernandez of the Miami-Dade police serving eviction papers last month in Miami. ''People of all walks of life are getting evicted,'' Officer Fernandez said.
 Officer Fernandez with a locksmith, Eddie Afraf, in Miami. Banks have hired companies that specialize in evictions.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EVICTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); FORECLOSURE (86%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (77%); WOMEN (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); CANCER (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (96%) FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



82 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: The Pride of Youngstown: A 'Ghost' Who Didn't Vanish

BYLINE: By SEAN D. HAMILL

DATELINE: YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio 

 BODY:
Called the Ghost early in his career for his ability to make opponents swing and miss, Kelly Pavlik, this city's favorite son, has developed into a relentless power puncher with an iron chin. But still, he cannot shake the nickname, which now applies more to his complexion than to the straight-ahead, proficient fighter he has become. 
 In what has long been one of boxing's glamour weight classes -- former champions include household names like Sugar Ray Leonard, Marvin Hagler and Thomas Hearns -- Pavlik has quietly and suddenly amassed two of the four middleweight belts. 
 Twice in the last year he has pummeled the middleweight champion Jermain Taylor, uncorking his lean, 6-foot-2 frame and 75-inch reach to ascend to undisputed champion in the 160-pound division. If you have not heard of Pavlik, it is not your fault. Attribute it to a boxer who refuses to abandon his beleaguered hometown and to a struggling sport that is not producing enough marquee names or worthy fighters in his weight class to allow him to elevate his story or his game. 
 His next opponent, the Welshman Gary Lockett, whom he fights Saturday night in Atlantic City, is seen by many in the sport as beneath Pavlik, despite being the No. 1 contender for one of Pavlik's belts.
 But if the 26-year-old Pavlik continues to win -- perhaps even with an extra dose of style -- he may be able to attract some big names from other divisions to cross over and fight him. And if he stays undefeated (he is 33-0 with 29 knockouts), he has the potential to transcend the glamour list of boxers.
 ''In a totally nonpolitically correct way of saying it: He's white and a Midwestern kid,'' said Bert Sugar, a longtime boxing journalist and analyst. ''That gives him a constituency that a lot of other American fighters don't have.'' 
 In addition, Sugar said, ''he has a great story; he's wrapped himself in the fabric of his city and he's a hero to Youngstown.''
 ''And we just don't have heroes today,'' he said. ''For some reason, we're out of the hero business.''
 In Youngstown, a former industrial stronghold that has lost more than half of its population since 1960 -- from 166,688 in 1960 to 81,520 in 2006 -- after most of its mills closed, Pavlik is revered for staying home when he could have easily left.
 Two weeks ago, while running stairs at the football stadium of Youngstown State University, more than 100 elementary school kids on a field trip spotted him from a long distance and started chanting: ''Kel-EEE!, Kel-EEE, Kel-EEE!''
 ''He has brought pride back to Youngstown, in a town that doesn't have a lot of good to talk about,'' said Nades Rafeedie, 36, owner of Mickey's bar on Market Street in the city. ''You see these guys making their money and usually they're off to Las Vegas and California. He stayed.''
 Before the March Democratic primary in Ohio, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton competed for Pavlik's endorsement -- Clinton won his endorsement and the primary.
 Pavlik has that local hero status in part because money has not changed him. Even though he will gross $2.5 million from the Lockett fight and is earning thousands more from an increasing stable of endorsements, he still lives in a very modest home with his longtime girlfriend, Samantha Kocanjer, 25, and their 2-year-old daughter, Sydney. He remains a regular, laid-back jokester devoid of ostentation and bling.
 Pavlik learned how fleeting economic security can be as an 8-year-old who watched his father lose a good steel mill job. ''He's still Kelly,'' said Lori Greenwalt, the manager of Civics, the local bar Pavlik frequents with friends and family, ''even if he is the champ.''
 The boxing trainer Jack Loew, a no-nonsense Youngstown native and part-time driveway sealer, said Pavlik did not stand out when he started training at the gym as a 9-year-old. Loew said he was tough and brave but ''nothing special.''
 To show how far Pavlik has come, Loew keeps an enlarged photo above the inside of his club's front door of his 15 amateur fighters in 1992, all posed after a fight night. They are all wearing the red and black warm-ups of the South Side Boxing Club -- except Pavlik, whose skills did not yet warrant the issuance of official gear.
 It was the night of Pavlik's first fight, and Loew matched him up against someone with 24 fights on his resume. 
 ''He beat the hell out of him,'' Loew said of Pavlik's first win. ''He smacked him around the ring.''
 In the photo, Pavlik is beaming with the look of someone who has found his calling. Boxing was satisfying in a way that made sense to Pavlik.
 ''It was the one-on-one aspect,'' Pavlik said. ''Not being selfish, but you win by yourself. If you lose, there's no one to blame. It's everything you put into it.''
 It would be six years, though, before everything would really click for Pavlik, who was all gangly legs, arms and size 14 feet at age 16 when everyone realized he could hit with surprising ferocity and force.
 Pavlik soon stopped the dancing that earned his nickname and began pounding and dropping everyone who came his way. In 1998, he won the National Junior Golden Gloves. In 1999, when he was 17, he won the United States National Under-19 title. By 2000, he was fighting for a spot on the Olympic team, narrowly losing to Jermain Taylor, who went on to win a bronze medal for the United States.
 People started paying attention. Pavlik signed with Top Rank's Cameron Dunkin, one of boxing's top managers. Two long-accepted rules of boxing are that fighters have to get more experienced trainers if they are to make it to the top level, and that they have to get away from home for training camp.
 Pavlik did not buy into either notion. 
 ''Kelly is an extremely loyal person,'' said his father, Michael Pavlik Sr., who is a manager for his son. ''And he's in a comfort zone. He rolls out of bed and he's here training in two minutes.'' 
 That did not stop Top Rank's matchmakers and other luminaries in boxing, including Ray Mancini, a friend of the family and a Youngstown native, from trying to persuade Pavlik to leave home and go with a big-name trainer.
 Dunkin, Pavlik's lead manager, said he fought for years with Top Rank's matchmaker, Bruce Trampler, over the issue. Pavlik finally agreed to train in Las Vegas before a couple of fights in 2004 and 2005, but he ''was ''miserable,'' Dunkin said.
 Then, in October 2005, he knocked out the contender Fulgencia Zuniga in the ninth round.
 ''After that, the heat was sort of off,'' Dunkin said, ''because he fought a solid guy and won.''
 He has trained in Youngstown for his last seven fights.
 ''I have everything I need right here,'' Pavlik said. ''And you do have your real fans, your real true fans.'' 
 One of the quirks of his training regimen is that he still sleeps on the couch in his parents' Youngstown home, leaving his family members at their suburban Boardman home. This is mainly so his father can keep an eye on his diet. Then he is off to the pleasantly shabby, one-room storefront of a former grocery story where he has trained with Loew for 17 years.
 Ultimately, Dunkin explained, Pavlik would like to have a chance to unify all four major middleweight belts, which would mean fighting the German boxers Felix Sturm, who holds the World Boxing Association belt, and Arthur Abraham, who holds the International Boxing Federation belt. Because neither are big names in this country, Pavlik may instead move up a weight class to 168 pounds and fight the undisputed andundefeated super middleweight champion, the Welshman Joe Calzaghe (45-0).
 But first there is Lockett, who has a 30-1 record with 21 knockouts but is four inches shorter than Pavlik. Even though Lockett is the No. 1 contender in the division, the British press is calling this fight his ''Rocky moment'' because he is a relative unknown.
 When Pavlik is not training, he devotes several days a week to local charities, helping with fund-raisers or meeting with sick children.
 Last year, after the first Taylor fight, he added a tattoo on his back, depicting an angel crying and hugging the world, over the phrase ''Lift Our Spirits.''
 ''She's tired of everything going on in the world today,'' Pavlik said of the angel, conceding the tattoo reflects how he feels sometimes when he realizes he cannot help everybody in Youngstown. ''But I've never seen anything near what they did for me when I came home from the first Taylor fight. People in Youngstown are on their feet again. It's just awesome to see that again.''
 His goal, he said, is to be so successful that he's ''mentioned in the same breath as the Hearns, Leonards, Haglers, Durans, Benitezes.'' 
 ''I want to be there,'' Pavlik said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kelly Pavlik, an undefeated middleweight who holds two world title belts, with his daughter, Sydney. He fights Saturday in Atlantic City.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D1)
 Kelly Pavlik, 33-0 with 29 knockouts, training in Youngstown. ''I have everything I need right here,'' he said. Left, Pavlik, who faces Gary Lockett on Saturday, working out with a tractor tire.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOXING (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); WRITERS (66%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (77%); MIDWEST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



83 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: A New Emerald Is Fashioned for Boston's Necklace

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
On the long-neglected site of a state mental hospital that closed more than two decades ago, a mixed-income community is under construction.
 The development on 42 acres in southwestern Boston is the equivalent of adding a new neighborhood the size of the North End, a rare opportunity in an urban setting that is mostly built up.
 The site is at the end of the string of parkland known as Boston's ''emerald necklace.'' It is near Franklin Park, Boston's largest park, which is almost the size of Prospect Park in Brooklyn; both were designed by Frederick Law Olmsted. 
 Many of the homes at the development, called Olmsted Green, after the landscape designer, have views of land that was once part of the mental hospital site and is now a nature preserve. 
 The site, which is in the middle of the neighborhoods of Dorchester, Roxbury and Mattapan, had long been considered ''on the wrong side of the tracks.'' Until recently most of the land has been unused, apparently considered a risky venture by private developers. 
 But now the site is being transformed by an unusual partnership of the Lena Park Community Development Corporation, a small neighborhood nonprofit organization with little experience in real estate, and New Boston Fund, a $1 billion profit-making company that has built 20 million square feet of commercial property and nearly 7,000 housing units nationwide.
 When the project is completed in three to five years, the $150 million development will have 153 units of affordable and work-force rental housing, 83 units of affordable senior housing, and 287 market rate condominium town houses and apartments (priced from $278,000 to $550,000). There will also be a health and fitness facility; a job-training and education center; child care, youth and senior programs; and even an urban farm.
 ''This is a special site that I wanted to bring my urban planning background to,'' said Jerry Rappaport Jr., chief executive of the New Boston Fund, who holds degrees in city and regional planning from the Kennedy School of Government and the Graduate School of Design at Harvard. ''I thought of it as an uncut jewel in the emerald necklace, so I took a leap that others might not have been able to see.'' 
 The University of Massachusetts built a biologics lab on the former mental hospital grounds, but most the land has gone unused since the hospital closed.
 ''On a site that has languished for years, finally there's a well-designed development,'' said Edward Marchant, adjunct lecturer at the Kennedy School of Government and consultant on mixed-income housing, who is not affiliated with this project. In neighborhoods in Boston with a significant need for good housing, like this one, ''when you have a site that can accommodate density and can be achieved through good design, it's a great opportunity.''
 The governor of Massachusetts, Deval L. Patrick, came to the ribbon-cutting on Olmsted Green's first rental housing in May. More important, Olmsted Green is a model for a bill that the governor signed last week authorizing $1.275 billion worth of bonds -- the state's largest investment ever in housing and community development projects throughout the commonwealth, according to Tina Brooks, an under secretary in the office of housing and economic development.
 ''Olmsted Green is a model for going into areas that have faded and reinventing them,'' Ms. Brooks said. ''The governor doesn't just see this as a housing project, but the redevelopment of a neighborhood.''
 The formula for building a truly mixed-income, sustainable development where there is no discernible difference between market rate and affordable units seems to reflect a partnership between a profit-making developer and a neighborhood development corporation with deep roots in the community. While the New Boston Fund brought its development expertise, the Lena Park Community Development Corporation has credibility in the community and access to subsidies. 
 By working with a community development corporation, Mr. Rappaport could jump-start a process that might otherwise have taken many years of enlisting support in the neighborhood and many more to qualify for subsidies.
 Still, Mr. Rappaport said, New Boston Fund -- a full-service real estate acquisition, development, management and investment firm -- invested $4 million before zoning and plans were approved. He was able to do this through the Urban Strategy America Fund, a New Boston subsidiary that invests under what it calls the ''triple bottom line model.'' The fund seeks not only to generate returns for investors, but also to spur economic development and promote environmental sustainability.
 To achieve those ends, the developer says there are more minority contractors working on the site than at any other development in Boston. 
 Olmsted Green has parking for one car for each unit, supplemented by shared parking spaces and free shuttles to nearby transit stops.
 The homes are also energy efficient and clustered for more efficient land use. Olmsted Green's standard green features include Energy Star rated appliances, carpets and paints with low toxicity, and energy-efficient windows and insulation.
 Working with the nature preserve, run by the Audubon Society, the developers will create several walking trails throughout the site. They are also preserving mature trees.
 ''I grew up in the projects,'' said E. Lorraine Baugh, chief executive of the Lena Park Community Development Corporation. ''People want some green and open space, and they don't want to drive an hour and a half to be able to afford it.''
 The nonprofit status of Lena Park qualified the project for state and local subsidies, which enable the developers to build so much affordable housing. In turn, Lena Park will reap substantial benefits from the profit-making development, including an expansion and rebuilding of its community center, and financing of programs, like job training and home-buyer counseling. Even though Lena Park did not risk any of its own resources, it risked its credibility by partnering with a ''white, downtown developer,'' Ms. Baugh said. 
 ''Part of our job is to educate the community,'' she said. ''As a community development corporation, without this partnership, we could build an affordable unit here and there, but nothing of this scale. Because we were involved, people came in skeptical but not completely opposed.'' 
 But even a well-planned development is not immune from the vagaries of the real estate market. The developer has had to postpone construction of some of the condominiums because of the subprime mortgage crisis and the resulting credit squeeze.
 While 50 of the affordable rental units have been built, only 19 of the units that will be sold are near completion, with seven under contract. The second phase is to start later this year. 
 ''In a challenging market, we're going forward,'' said Kirk A. Sykes, president of the Urban Strategy America Fund.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Square Feet pages on June 4 about a mixed-income residential development planned on the site of a former state mental hospital in southwestern Boston referred imprecisely to the organization that runs a nearby nature preserve. Although the area is indeed overseen by ''the Audubon Society,'' it is the Massachusetts Audubon Society, not the National Audubon Society. (The two groups are not affiliated.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kirk A. Sykes, top left, E. Lorraine Baugh, and Jerry Rappaport Jr. are partners in Olmsted Green, a $150 million project near Franklin Park in Boston. Above, a rendering of some of the finished homes.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARCHPARTNERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (76%); HOSPITALS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (69%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



84 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Global Trade Negotiations Are Dealt Another Setback

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
Global trade talks have stumbled again after a frustrated mediator suspended negotiations over industrial goods, complaining that it was ''pointless to continue'' because diplomats were refusing to negotiate. 
 The halt in discussions to reduce industrial tariffs, demanded by Don Stephenson, Canada's ambassador to the World Trade Organization, late Monday, could block a crucial stage of negotiations with a goal of striking an agreement between opening markets in agriculture and in manufactured products. 
 After seven years, the World Trade Organization's so-called Doha trade round -- named for discussions that began in the Qatari capital -- is at a crucial junction if negotiators are to reach a global accord to reduce trade barriers and tariffs by the end of 2008. 
 Advocates of a deal say that the need for an accord has been made more urgent by soaring food prices, which have created unrest in developing countries, and by the credit squeeze, which has heightened the risks of a global economic slowdown. 
 The latest setback came after diplomats in Geneva failed to narrow differences over industrial goods after eight days of negotiations. Not one of the many proposals to open the markets of W.T.O. members further to industrial imports was agreed to during discussions. 
 ''From where I sit, it is pointless to continue in this manner,'' Mr. Stephenson said, according to Bloomberg News. The suspension may put pressure on negotiators to rethink their positions. 
 Discussions to reduce tariffs and subsidies on agricultural exports will continue next week. But with the parallel talks on agriculture and industrial goods closely linked, a holdup on one issue poses a serious threat to hopes of a successful conclusion of the overall talks. 
 ''The progress made in nonagricultural market access to date is not sufficient for an accord,'' said Keith Rockwell, a spokesman for the W.T.O.'s director general, Pascal Lamy. 
 Mr. Rockwell added, ''Certainly the next few weeks will be extremely important in terms of the objective of getting this done by the end of the year.''
 Until now most of the attention had been focused on agriculture, with the United States under pressure to reduce farm subsidies and the European Union to cut tariffs on agricultural products. 
 But the United States and the European Union have sought to increase pressure on emerging economies to compromise over industrial tariffs. 
 Attention will shift now to a meeting on Thursday in Paris, which will be led by Australia and will be attended by negotiators from Brazil, China, India, the European Union and the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (94%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (94%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (87%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); AGRICULTURE (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); CREDIT CRISIS (67%); FOOD PRICES (53%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (51%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); INDIA (79%); QATAR (79%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



85 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Suit Opposes Elk Feeding in Wyoming

BYLINE: By JIM ROBBINS

 BODY:
Environmentalists filed a lawsuit on Tuesday in an effort to stop a federal wildlife refuge in Wyoming from continuing its longtime practice of feeding wild elk. They say such feeding could lead to or worsen an outbreak of chronic wasting disease in the large wildlife populations around Yellowstone National Park.
 Chronic wasting disease causes brain lesions in elk and deer that result in neurological damage and death. Animals with the disease must be killed to avoid spreading it, but there is no evidence it can be passed to humans by exposure although more research is being done. 
 Discovered in a Colorado research facility in the 1960s, chronic wasting disease has forced biologists to kill hundreds of infected wild deer from Wisconsin to Wyoming and thousands of others that are not infected to keep the disease from spreading.
 Chronic wasting disease has been found just 70 or so miles from the ecosystem that includes the National Elk Refuge in Jackson, Wyo., and Yellowstone National Park, worrying environmentalists that it could sicken and kill animals in and around the park. 
 Wildlife biologists warn that feeding the animals that crowd together at the National Elk Refuge and at 22 other state feeding grounds in Wyoming is likely to worsen any outbreak of chronic wasting disease. Conditions at feed lots increase disease rates up to 10 times those found in the wild because diseases are passed rapidly among animals in close contact. 
 ''If you crowd animals together, you'll increase the probability of transmission,'' said Markus Peterson, a wildlife-disease scientist from Texas A&M University. ''They really need to rethink the feeding of elk in Wyoming.''
 Environmentalists and others say the crowding of elk into the refuge at Jackson has sharply altered natural conditions. About 8,300 elk winter there.
 ''Basically, we've got way too many animals on too small an area for too long a time,'' said Barry Reiswig, a retired refuge manager who now lives near Cody, Wyo. ''They're way over the elk refuge's carrying capacity.''
 The refuge's current manager, Steve Kallin, said he had not seen the lawsuit. Asked about concern that feeding the elk could foster disease, Mr. Kallin said, ''We're looking at managing to minimize that potential.'' 
 Wyoming's economy would be affected by ending the feeding of elk at the refuge, which has become a tourist attraction. Last winter more than 25,000 people paid $16 each to ride on sleighs pulled by horses among herds of elk on snow-covered landscapes. In addition, ranchers do not want hungry wild elk competing with their cattle for food, and hunting outfitters want assurances that plenty of animals will be available for their clients to stalk.
 The adjacent states of Montana and Idaho have banned the feeding of elk because of the risk of disease. Environmentalists said a plan completed by the refuge in 2007 acknowledged the seriousness of the threat, but did not recommend ending the feeding, which began a century ago during a harsh winter, to keep the elk from starvation. 
 If prions, the agents that cause chronic wasting disease, were to sweep through the refuge, experts say, they could live in the soil for decades and force the 25,000-acre refuge to close. 
 The lawsuit filed on Tuesday in federal court in Washington, D.C., by Earthjustice, on behalf of the Greater Yellowstone Coalition, Jackson Hole Conservation Alliance, Defenders of Wildlife, Wyoming Outdoor Council and the National Wildlife Refuge Association, was against only the National Elk Refuge, and not the State of Wyoming, because the National Wildlife Refuge Improvement Act requires that wildlife refuges be managed in a way that keeps the land and wildlife healthy. The law does not apply to state-managed wildlife. 
 Signs of other diseases that are spread more quickly through crowding, like brucellosis, scabies and hoof rot are present in the refuge, environmentalists say. Brucellosis, which causes cattle to abort their young, has been a particular problem in the Great Yellowstone Ecosystem. In Wyoming and Idaho the disease has been passed from elk or bison to cattle. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Environmentalists filed suit to stop the feeding of wild elk in a Wyoming refuge. This elk was in Yellowstone National Park.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNE SHERWOOD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (92%); NATIONAL PARKS (91%); CHRONIC DISEASES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); ANIMALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); MAMMALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); NEUROSCIENCE (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); BRAIN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (96%); MONTANA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



86 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Says Food Plan Could Cost $30 Billion a Year

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN and ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: ROME 

 BODY:
Faced with an immediate hunger crisis and the need to double food production in the next 30 years, world leaders meeting Tuesday to discuss soaring food prices were mostly in agreement on how the problem could be resolved. The questions were how to get there and who was going to pay for it. 
 The steps needed? Immediately deliver more food aid to the world's hungry. Provide small farmers with seeds and fertilizer. Scrap export bans and restrictions. And vastly increase agriculture research and outreach programs to improve crop production. 
 The cost? Jacques Diouf, director general of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the host of the meeting, estimated it could run to $30 billion a year.
 ''The problem of food insecurity is a political one,'' he said. ''It is a question of priorities in the face of the most fundamental of human needs. And it is those choices made by governments that determine the allocation of resources.''
 As expected, biofuels emerged as the most contentious issue of the conference, and several speakers criticized government policies that diverted food crops to energy use, particularly at a time of increasing hunger.
 President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt called for ''an urgent international dialogue'' on the food crisis that ''sets standards for the responsible utilization of agricultural crops as food for human beings, not as fuel for human beings.'' He suggested that biofuel production be restricted to agricultural waste and nonfood crops.
 Brazil's president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, also took a swipe at the United States' ethanol production, saying that corn-based ethanol could ''obviously only compete with sugar-cane ethanol when it is shot up with subsidies and shielded behind tariff barriers.''
 Brazil and the United States are the world's largest producers of ethanol. Most of Brazil's ethanol comes from sugar cane and most in the United States comes from corn.
 ''There is good ethanol and bad ethanol,'' he said, adding that ethanol from sugar cane was far more energy efficient than corn ethanol. ''Good ethanol helps clean up the planet and is competitive. Bad ethanol comes with the fat of subsidies.''
 The United States' agriculture secretary, Ed Schafer, who attended the meeting, dismissed the criticism, saying Brazil could be planting food crops like corn and soybeans on the acres it devotes to sugar cane from ethanol. 
 ''They're choosing to grow sugar cane, and we choose to grow corn,'' said Mr. Schafer, who maintains that ethanol has played a minor role in food inflation. ''I don't understand the distinction.''
 The three-day conference drew dozens of world leaders, like President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda of Japan, to discuss food security. Food prices are at their highest in more than three decades and stockpiles are at perilous lows. 
 The reasons for the rise in food prices include weather problems that reduced crop yields, growing demand for food among the emerging middle class in China and other developing countries, and the increasing production of ethanol and other biofuels.
 Among the more provocative speakers was Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the president of Iran, who blamed the Western nations for creating the food crisis by devaluing the dollar and forcing up oil prices, and described Israel as a criminal state.
 President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe criticized his nation's former ''colonial masters'' in Britain and its Western allies for imposing what he called illegal economic sanctions. 
 ''All this has been done to cripple Zimbabwe's economy and thereby effect illegal regime change in our country,'' he said. Zimbabwe's once thriving agricultural sector has virtually collapsed during his tenure.
 But for all the diversions, the main theme of the speakers on Tuesday was to vastly increase support for agriculture to provide more food for poor countries and future generations. 
 Mr. Diouf of the Food and Agriculture Organization sharply criticized wealthy nations for cutting spending on agricultural programs for the world's poor, while spending billions of dollars on carbon markets, subsidies for their own farmers, weapons and biofuel production. 
 ''The developing countries did, in fact, forge policies, strategies and programs that -- if they had received appropriate funding -- would have given us world food security,'' Mr. Diouf said, adding that countries had finally mobilized to help only after images of food riots and hunger emerged in the news media.
 The World Bank president, Robert B. Zoellick, in his prepared remarks, said: ''This is not a natural catastrophe. It is man-made and can be fixed by us. It does not take complex research. We know what has to be done. We just need action and resources in real time.''
 At a meeting devoted largely to the economics of food, dominated by talk of biofuels and genetically modified crops, many charitable groups said they felt their more basic concerns were overlooked. 
 Susan Shepherd of Doctors Without Borders said that in Niger, where she has worked for the past few years, higher prices meant that families bought less food -- or less nutritious food -- for their children. ''The only one who really focused on hunger and malnutrition -- about the people who go hungry -- was the pope,'' she said, referring to a message from Pope Benedict XVI that was read at the conference.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Aid workers gave bread to Pakistanis in Lahore last month. Food shortages have led to unrest in a number of countries.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIO MORENATTI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOMASS (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); ETHANOL (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOOD SECURITY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CROP PRODUCTION (76%); SUGAR FARMING (76%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (76%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); FERTILIZERS (71%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (68%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (66%); EXPORT CONTROLS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: ED SCHAFER (51%); YASUO FUKUDA (50%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%); HOSNI MUBARAK (50%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



87 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ABROAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: Courting Donors, Finding Freedom

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

DATELINE: BADEN-BADEN, Germany 

 BODY:
A decade ago, during a speech in Vienna, the mild-mannered director of a German art museum lit into the Guggenheim for carpetbagging, siphoning money from European companies like Deutsche Bank. The audience ritually nodded. 
 Quizzed later about whether he, too, had ever gone to Deutsche Bank with hat in hand, the man became offended. 
 ''Of course not,'' he said. 
 And there you had it. The trans-Atlantic gulf. The very notion of hitting up private companies and rich people for money, of setting up boards of trustees and answering to them, the way American cultural organizations do, appalled this director's European sense of entitlement. 
 Times have changed, especially in the money-mad art world, which has compelled even prideful Europeans to start trolling for cash. But attitudes, well, they have changed less. And in the performing arts, which lean most heavily on public subsidies, Europeans still maintain a general view that public support is a social covenant and moral obligation. They're reluctant to become too Americanized. 
 You can't blame them. Many Americans would side with the German museum director about the dignity of Europe's lavish public spending, and lament commercial pressures on nonprofit institutions and their dependence on sometimes meddlesome donors.
 But that's not the perspective from this leafy little enclave of private enterprise, whose example should make everyone, on both sides of the Atlantic, think twice about cultural economics and the costs of achieving true quality in the arts. 
 Here at the very heart of subsidized Europe, the Festspielhaus Baden-Baden is a nonprofit venture, or the German equivalent without American-style tax breaks. It receives not a cent of public money, save for a long-term payoff for the construction of its 2,500-seat hall -- an unlovely but functional barn, behind the old railway station, designed by Wilhelm Holzbauer, a Viennese architect. Opened in 1998, the hall has turned out to be an acoustic coup. The Festspielhaus now fills it year-round, about 120 times, with the cream of the crop of today's musicians and dance companies.
 The New York Philharmonic arrives in early September, to celebrate the festival's 10th anniversary, although the actual anniversary was April 18, a date better ignored. When the Festspielhaus started, it almost instantly went belly up and became a laughingstock across Europe. Bailed out by donors, it gradually reinvented itself. 
 Today it banks its reputation on heavyweight opera productions. A new version of Wagner's ''Tannhauser'' will open in July, on the same night that Bayreuth opens ''Parsifal'' -- a coincidence of rivalrous consequence. Lately, Baden-Baden has outshone the creaky Wagner shrine. 
 Occasionally it also books cash cows. The other night a full house turned out for a concert by the violinist Nigel Kennedy. Before an audience of aged Germans, he did his punk shtick, which like him is getting old. He found a stranger named Vicky near the front row to pretend to flirt with, cursed, kicked a soccer ball into the first balcony, pounded his chest and fiddled ''Danny Boy'' for an encore. (The program was Mozart and Beethoven, by the way.) Patrons gulped Champagne and ate soft pretzels in the V.I.P. lounge, and (another American-inspired marketing touch) ushers clutching bouquets handed roses to women as they exited. Concertgoers looked perfectly content strolling into the night. 
 The problem, a decade back, was that with no audience yet to speak of, the Festspielhaus's first managers naively presumed that simply hiring the Nigel Kennedys of the world, and charging $500 for tickets, would make a going endeavor. Baden-Baden became proof to skeptical Europeans of the folly of importing the American model to this side of the Atlantic. 
 But a new director, Andreas Molich-Zebhauser, who ran a contemporary-music orchestra in Frankfurt, took charge. He had a core of stoic patrons. He began to collaborate with musicians on serious projects; developed relationships with conductors like Thomas Hengelbrock, Christian Thielemann, Valery Gergiev and Claudio Abbado; and embraced very un-European promotional techniques.
 He lowered ticket prices and balanced the budget, too. Swayed above all by the musical results, critics who once enjoyed mocking the festival have reversed themselves in recent years. 
 It's a trans-Atlantic looking-glass situation. Germany alone this year, including all city, state and federal support, will dole out a total of $12.4 billion on culture -- libraries, theaters, museums, musical and dance groups -- including $4.6 billion just for music and theater, according to the country's department for statistics. There are no fewer than 80 state opera houses, staging 7,000 performances a year.
 That sounds great, astonishing even. But the system, bloated and not everywhere well managed, inevitably produces much mediocrity. The reality is that about 20 percent of the budget for Berlin's three struggling opera companies today must come from private contributions. Bayreuth scrambles to raise nearly half its budget from donations and ticket sales. It would have gone bankrupt by now if donors hadn't made up for deficits due to bad leadership. 
 Then there's Baden-Baden, with its ancient trees (''the most magnificent I've ever seen,'' Turgenev wrote to Flaubert) and perfumed breezes wafting past kitschy Black Forest knickknack stores and old villas. Once a retreat for Prussian kings and Russian czars, where Brahms composed his second symphony, by the 1970s and '80s it had become, as the newsmagazine Der Spiegel aptly called it, ''an open-air geriatric museum.'' Rich retirees mixed with German pensioners shipped on the dole for a few weeks' cure in the waters. Nostalgic Russians swelled the ranks of convalescents.
 The concept behind the Festspielhaus was to rejuvenate this city of 50,000 as a cultural destination. ''It was a revolution,'' said Rudiger Beermann, the Festspielhaus's spokesman, ''and also a blasphemy in Germany, even though it always used to be the dukes and the counts and the rich people who paid for the arts. At first nobody, absolutely nobody except our patrons supported the idea, and also the audience and the artists, who enjoyed coming.'' 
 Mr. Molich-Zebhauser elaborated on that thought one recent morning. ''With the private sector comes enthusiasm, competence in finance and responsibility,'' he said. 
 This is the real point. State opera and ballet companies here maintain in-house orchestras and workshops to build sets. Dortmund employs 650. The staff of the Festspielhaus is 70, and there's no in-house orchestra or workshop, meaning Mr. Hengelbrock can be hired to conduct Weber's ''Freischutz'' on period instruments for a production by Robert Wilson, or Mr. Gergiev can come with the Kirov Ballet to stage Rachmaninoff and Tchaikovsky. ''We have a freedom that state houses don't,'' Mr. Molich-Zebhauser said.
 Artistic freedom, that is. Nikolaus Lehnhoff, the director of ''Tannhauser,'' his sixth production here, put it another way. ''What makes Baden-Baden special is that it avoids all the bad habits of the German repertory theater system,'' he said. That means no union regulations, the luxury of short runs so performances don't deteriorate, the independence to hire whomever, but also something easier to overlook for American cultural advocates envious of state largess.
 Call it accountability. Germany's state theaters churn out hundreds of new opera productions a year, and the notion of a Robert Mapplethorpe fiasco like the one that crippled the National Endowmentfor the Arts in the United States years ago, when the right wing used provocative photographs as a cudgel against the left, is inconceivable here. ''German theaters can do nearly whatever they want,'' Mr. Lehnhoff agreed.
 ''But'' -- here's the crux -- ''because state support is guaranteed, if the house is half full, the head of the house doesn't care.'' 
 It's true. Success here is calculated not in terms of public interest, but, too often, by column inches in the newspapers, meaning the more novel a new production, the more likely it is to generate attention. Of course great work is produced each year, relieved of the basest commercial pressures. But, as it has for decades, Regietheater, as it is called, persists: directors displace singers as the stars, and German stages become rife with blood and black turtlenecks and cliched metaphors of capitalist excess. German newspaper critics eat it up, and so ''Sprockets'' lives on because the system perpetuates it. 
 Mr. Molich-Zebhauser made an important distinction between artistic freedom and artistic responsibility. The Festspielhaus ''emphasizes the music and musicians,'' he said. He was pushing a festival brand to sell tickets. But the sentiment was also heartfelt. 
 The pianist Helene Grimaud said recently that she feels ''a special partnership'' is developed here. She credited Mr. Molich-Zebhauser for encouraging her recent collaboration with Thomas Quasthoff, the bass-baritone, among other projects.
 ''I'm a big fan of the state system,'' said Mr. Molich-Zebhauser, whose father, Theo Molich, became a conductor thanks to state support, then led a public theater in an industrial and mining city in the Ruhr region, Gelsenkirchen, where Mr. Molich-Zebhauser grew up. ''Baden-Baden is a special case because it's rich, but we hope to be icebreakers for elsewhere. 
 ''The truth is that Americans might do better to increase public funding for the arts a little,'' he added. ''And here we have to become a little less lazy.'' 
 On both counts, he's got that right.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The violinist Nigel Kennedy at the Festspielhaus Baden-Baden hall in Germany. The festival is celebrating its 10th anniversary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KREMPER) (pg. E4)
 Andreas Molich- Zebhauser (pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); DANCE COMPANIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); DANCE (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); MUSIC (65%); OPERA (60%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (84%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (84%); DBK (FRA) (84%); DBK (BIT) (84%); DBETN (JSE) (84%); DBA (ASX) (84%); DB (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



88 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Big Vehicles Stagger Under Weight of $4 Gas

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A fully loaded Ford F-250 pickup truck is a whole lot of vehicle. It can tow a horse trailer with multiple horses. It comes with a DVD-based navigation system for the driver as well as a DVD player for passengers who are sitting in the extended cab. 
 And how much does an F-250 set you back these days? 
 Try $100,000. 
 The F-250 is part of the first generation of mass-market vehicles -- along with the Lincoln Navigator, Lexus LX 570 and a few others -- to approach the six-figure mark. Now, if you walked into a showroom today and asked to see one of these trucks, the price tag wouldn't be anywhere near $100,000. It would be much closer to $50,000. 
 But you don't buy a vehicle to leave it in your garage. You buy it to drive it. So it makes sense to consider the full costs of ownership, which include insurance, interest, repairs, taxes and, of course, gasoline. If gas remains near $4 a gallon, as many analysts expect, a big vehicle like the F-250 will cost $100,000 for an owner who keeps it for a typical amount of time (five years) and drives it a typical amount (15,000 miles a year). The gas alone would cost about $30,000, up from about $10,000 in the 1990s. 
 No wonder, then, that Americans are changing their driving habits so quickly. With sales plummeting, General Motors said Tuesday that it would stop making pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles at four of its North American plants. 
 The company is also considering selling its Hummer brand, an emblem of the megavehicle. Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chairman, explained the moves by saying that he thought the shift toward more efficient cars was ''by and large, permanent.'' 
 The unyielding reality is that price matters, enormously. That's all you need to know about the car market these days. And it's almost all you need to know about the debate over energy policy that has consumed the Senate this week.
 Americans fell in love with vehicles like the Ford pickup trucks in the 1990s, back when gas didn't cost much more than $1 a gallon. That seemed normal at the time, because gas prices had remained in a narrow range -- roughly 90 cents to $1.25 a gallon -- going back to the early 1980s.
 But this stability was actually a sign of something deeply unusual. The cost of most everything else was rising, as was the size of people's nominal paychecks. So in practical terms, gas was becoming cheaper. By 1999, it had effectively fallen to its lowest point on record, about 30 percent lower than in the 1950s and '60s. 
 Cheap gas made a highly desirable luxury item -- hulking vehicles, with lots of power, a high view of the road and backseat DVD players -- affordable for many families. The recent run-up in gas prices has changed that. On Tuesday, the nationwide average hit another record, $3.98 a gallon.
 With help from Jake Fisher, a senior automotive engineer at the Consumer Reports test track in Connecticut, I crunched some numbers this week to see how much more expensive these big vehicles had become. The answer is pretty simple: a lot more expensive. 
 While the F-250 costs $100,000 and a fully loaded F-150 -- the better-known, smaller Ford pickup -- costs about $70,000, a Ford Focus still costs less than $40,000 over five years. A Honda Civic Hybrid does, too. A Toyota Prius costs only a little more. A Subaru Outback station wagon runs $50,000 or so.
 To put this in perspective, the difference between a Focus and an F-250 over five years is $60,000. The annual pretax income of a typical family in this country is also about $60,000. So choosing a F-250 over a Focus is like volunteering for a 20 percent pay cut. The relative resale values might cushion the blow a little, but not much.
 That's why more people are deciding that towing capacity and the other benefits of pickup trucks and S.U.V.'s are not worth the costs. The F-250 may still make sense for some business owners. But, as Mr. Fisher says, on those few occasions when the rest of us need to move some horses, we can rent a truck. ''The new economics of car buying is, 'Don't overbuy,' '' he told me. ''Buy something you're going to need most of the time.''
 If gasoline were like most other products, the story could end here. There would be little reason for United States senators to worry about the ebbs and flows of people's driving habits. But gasoline -- and, more broadly, oil -- is different, for two main reasons. 
 One, oil is a scarce resource that is disproportionately controlled by unfriendly foreign governments. Two, the use of oil produces carbon dioxide, which is heating up the planet and could eventually cause all sorts of problems. The planet's 10 warmest years on record have all occurred since 1995. It seems pretty clear that we'd be better off if we could figure out how to use less oil.
 So the Senate is spending this week debating a bipartisan-sponsored bill that would cap carbon use in coming years. The government would then issue permits for carbon use that could be traded among companies. The net result of this cap-and-trade system would be to increase the cost of energy use.
 The bill has real flaws -- it's needlessly complex, with too much potential for legislative pork -- and is not likely to pass this year. Even if it did, President Bush has signaled that he would veto it. But the fact that it has finally reached the Senate floor seems to represent the beginning of a serious national debate about energy use. 
 And there is one overriding principle that should inform that debate: price matters. The only reliable way to cut oil use -- to reduce the flow of money to Iran, Russia and Saudi Arabia, to reduce the odds that the planet just keeps getting hotter -- is to make oil more expensive. 
 This, of course, is precisely the specter that has been raised by opponents of new carbon rules. Gas costs way too much already! Yet that argument gets cause and effect almost perfectly backward. 
 Oil has become so expensive mainly because the world is using so much of it. Yes, making it more expensive -- about 40 cents a gallon more expensive by 2030, according to two analyses of the current bill -- will bring some medium-term economic pain. But the pain can be greatly reduced through broad-based tax cuts, financed with the revenue raised by a good cap-and-trade system (or, as many economists prefer, a carbon tax). 
 More important, raising the cost of energy could bring enormous long-term benefits. It could make the country more secure, strategically and economically. 
 ''The real concern,'' said Nathaniel Keohane, the head of economic policy and analysis at the Environmental Defense Fund, ''should be our vulnerability to $7-a-gallon gasoline that is a function of global demand and stagnant supply.'' Goldman Sachs recently suggested that $7-a-gallon gas was conceivable.
 As unpleasant as it's been, the run-up in gas prices has brought one big advantage. It has shown how flexible American consumers are -- how well they can adapt to new prices without turning their lives upside down.
 For more than two decades, Ford's F-series pickup trucks have been the most popular line of vehicles in the country, selling more every year than any sedan, station wagon or S.U.V., foreign or domestic. But F-series sales have dropped more than 30 percent since last spring. 
 Last month, according to the new sales numbers released on Tuesday, the Toyota Corolla and Camry and the Honda Civic and Accord all surged past the F-series. It was the first month since December 1992 that a car -- not a truck -- was thecountry's top-selling vehicle. The world doesn't seem to have come to an end as a result.

GRAPHIC: CHART: NEW KINGS OF THE ROAD: In May, Honda's Civic and Accord and Toyota's Camry and Corolla all outsold Ford's F-series pickup trucks, previously the best-selling vehicle. (Sources: Autodata
 company reports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); CD & DVD DRIVES (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (67%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



89 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: As Costs Keep Rising, Restaurateurs Find Creative Ways to Cope

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
At Maple Garden, a Shanghai-style restaurant in Flushing, Queens, rice is no longer served automatically with every meal.
 At Good Enough to Eat, a brunch spot on Manhattan's Upper West Side, diners will have to pay $2 extra for the walnut and raisin topping that used to come with the cinnamon swirl French toast.
 At the Catch, a year-old Barbadian restaurant in St. Albans, Queens, Vicki Cutting is hoping her customers will not notice that the portions of pudding and souse, a traditional dish, are slightly smaller than they were a few months ago.
 All across New York City, cooks, chefs and restaurateurs are struggling to cope with soaring costs of many of their basic ingredients, including flour, eggs, rice and cooking oil. ''Everything is going up at once'' is a universal complaint among them, so they are devising all sorts of strategies to avoid having to pass the brunt of the price increases on to their customers. 
 Some are cutting back on waiters and kitchen help, others are staying open longer or expanding their offerings to increase sales. One sheepishly admitted that she had started adding the sales tax to customer's bills rather than raise the prices printed on her elaborate, laminated menus.
 Driven by the surging price of oil and a shift by farmers to produce corn to make ethanol, the cost of food has been rising at an exceptionally fast pace. Last month, the federal Labor Department reported that prices for food and drinks in the New York metropolitan area had risen 5.3 percent in a year, the biggest increase in any 12-month period since 1990.
 ''This is the worst we've seen in three decades,'' said E. Charles Hunt, executive vice president of the New York State Restaurant Association. Mr. Hunt said he had been fielding calls from restaurant owners moaning about the pinches they feel every time a delivery truck rolls up.
 Mr. Hunt said he had not seen any evidence that rising prices were driving restaurants in the city out of business at a rate faster than the norm. With the city's economy having held up better than the nation's, in part because of a heavy influx of foreign tourists, restaurant traffic has not declined significantly, especially on weekends, restaurant operators said.
 On the expense side of the ledger, the pain is shared by operators of ethnic takeout stands and purveyors of haute cuisine alike.
 Suvir Saran, the owner and a co-executive chef of Devi, an Indian restaurant in the Flatiron district, said he was weighing whether to pare down portions, because he did not think he could raise prices. Devi already charged $65 for its ''chef's tasting menu'' before the cost of rice and chapati flour doubled over the past few months.
 A 30-pound sack of rice has risen steadily this year to $43 from $22, while a 15-pound bag of flour has gone to $22 from $8 and a 4.6-gallon container of canola oil is up to $34, from $18 or less at the start of the year, Mr. Saran said.
 ''Rice is such an important part of our business,'' he said. ''We've been getting battered by these huge price increases.''
 Mr. Saran said that he earned little profit on a dinner of tandoor-grilled lamb chops priced at $30, but that in the past he had been able to make up for that by selling rice dishes. No longer. ''This year we're not making as much money selling rice,'' he said.
 Carrie Levin, who has run Good Enough to Eat for more than 25 years, said she usually replaced potato-based dishes with rice dishes in the warm months but would do less of that this year because potato prices had been more stable. 
 ''White rice went up, basmati went up, everything but wild rice went up,'' Ms. Levin said, running through a beleaguered cook's litany. ''The dairy went up first, so all the cheeses, all of that went up. That went up because of the use of ethanol. Then the price of gas went up, so the fuel surcharges were tacked on. In a restaurant, everything affects us.''
 The last delivery of 100-pound sacks of flour cost $7 more apiece than the previous load had, said Ms. Levin, whose restaurant runs through 1,000 pounds a week. Blueberries trucked down from Maine will cost $38 per flat, up from $24 last summer, she said. And a five-gallon jug of maple syrup from Canada recently leaped to $250 from $200, she said.
 So, she said, the never-frozen blueberries will go only on top of the pancakes until their price came back down, while those mixed into the batter will probably be the ''fresh-frozen'' type. ''This is how we cope,'' said Ms. Levin, who added that she had already raised the price of nearly every item on her menu this year by $1.
 Fortunately for restaurateurs like her, Ms. Levin said, ''No one is eating less, no one is drinking less.'' But the customers have become more demanding. ''Since they're paying more for everything, if they're coming out to eat they want it to be perfect,'' she said.
 Owners of small restaurants are particularly worried about making changes that could scare off business. Ms. Cutting, who described the Catch as the only Barbadian restaurant for miles around, said she still feared that higher prices would prompt customers to travel to Brooklyn for their weekly tastes of home, like flying fish and cou-cou, the national dish of Barbados.
 So far, Ms. Cutting, a former music teacher at Public School 38 in Rosedale, has held the line at $6 for a small plate of pudding and souse and $12 for a large one. She described the dish as a type of Caribbean sweet potato mixed with cornmeal, served with pickled pork. 
 ''This is the big seller on Saturdays, when the Barbadians are coming,'' Ms. Cutting said.
 She has staved off price increases by getting more help from her family -- her mother, sister and brother all pitch in -- and by shopping more often but buying less each trip. 
 Still, she said, she doubted that she could keep her prices steady much longer.
 ''We were reluctant to change the prices, but now we don't have a choice because the basic necessities have increased at such a rate,'' Ms. Cutting said. On the other hand, she said: ''If you raise the price, you lose the customer. The regular everyday man, now they are trying to cut back.''
 Cathy Yan, who has run the Maple Garden on Flushing's bustling Main Street for four years, said tampering with the portions was out of the question.
 ''Even if you change a little bit, they notice,'' she said of her customers, a mix of locals and Long Island residents who drive in on weekends to shop in the Chinese markets before tucking into platters of dumplings, scallion pancakes and fried flounder with seaweed.
 Rather than risk upsetting her regulars by repricing her menu or shrinking the servings, Ms. Yan said she had resorted to reducing the staff on weekdays and taking orders for rice.
 ''I tell the server, you have to ask the customer: How many rice?'' she said. She is not rationing it. It is just that at about $1 a pound, jasmine rice is too valuable to waste. She said she assured the customers that ''if you want more, I give you more.''
 Down the street at No. 1 East, a Chinese restaurant that serves everything from breakfast pastries to elaborate seafood entrees, Banson Ho said he had been putting in 16-hour days trying to increase revenue enough to cover the rapidly rising costs of rent, water, waste disposal and food, tofu included.
 He said the price of a cube of tofu had recently shot up to $1 from 65 cents. But that was a minor concern compared with a 15-percent rise in his water bill and the near-doubling of the prices of eggs and flour.
 Like Ms. Yan, Mr. Ho ruled out taking anything off the customers' plates or raising prices. Competition is too stiff for that, he said, gesturing toward the neon sign of a competitor directly across the street.
 Instead, he said, he was adding late-night snacks, like shaved ice flavored with condensed milk, pineapple or papaya, and doing more of the work himself. 
 ''I'm the manager. I'm the waiter. I'm the busboy,'' said Mr. Ho, who is 65 and has been running No. 1 East for 18 years. He said he would try to hold on for two more years while his son, who just completed medical school at Boston University, finishes his residency and becomes a cosmetic surgeon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cathy Yan, right, at the Maple Garden in Flushing, Queens, is trying to control the amount of rice that is served. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Vicki Cutting at the Catch. Her brother, Mark, behind her with Janel Jacobs, a server, is among family members pitching in. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mina Jones dines on pancakes, still with fresh blueberries on the plate, at Good Enough to Eat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); MENU PRICES (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); CITIES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BEVERAGE PRICES (67%); ALCOHOLS (66%); SALES TAX (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (50%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); BIHAR, INDIA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



90 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Impact of Earthquake on the Chinese Economy Is Seen as Minimal

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
The powerful earthquake that devastated southwestern China three weeks ago seems to have had only a limited effect on China's overall economy.
 Only 1 percent of China's population lives in the hardest hit quake-affected area, in northern Sichuan Province. Those residents account for an even smaller share of China's economic output, because many of them are impoverished farmers.
 Inflation was already a serious problem in China, running at nearly 9 percent a year, and government spending to rebuild the quake-affected region is driving up prices for some goods, like tents for the homeless. But to limit the broader effect on inflation, the Chinese government has already planned to offset spending on quake relief by slowing the growth rate in government spending elsewhere. 
 Many economists conclude that the economic harm of the earthquake will, as a result, be limited. ''I don't see any huge effect,'' said Oded Shenkar, a professor at Ohio State University's Fisher College of Business. ''You're going to lose some economic activity, but pretty quickly you're going to see new economic activity: construction, redevelopment and so forth.''
 Earthquakes elsewhere have sometimes caused financial crises. The San Francisco earthquake in 1906, which shook the ground with roughly the same force as the Sichuan earthquake, was so costly for insurers that it contributed to a national financial panic in the United States the following year.
 But the Sichuan earthquake appears unlikely to have a similar effect. 
 The China Banking Regulatory Commission has ordered banks to write off many loans to residents of the quake-affected region. Chinese insurance companies face claims on property and casualty policies and life insurance. But lending and insurance in the quake region were so meager before the earthquake that bank and insurance analysts say the effect will be negligible.
 Add together all the bank loans outstanding in the three provinces in the area hit by the quake -- Sichuan and neighboring Gansu and Shaanxi -- and the total is less than in Shanghai alone, said Richard Lung, a specialist in Chinese financial institutions at Moody's Investors Service. 
 Yet the earthquake could still have some effects on the economy, according to economists.
 The main inflation problem for China over the past year has been high food prices. Most farmers' fields in the earthquake area appear to have been spared. But the earthquake has disrupted road and rail links from Sichuan Province, a big producer of pork and grain.
 ''The transportation bottlenecks will make the inflation situation worse,'' at least for the May inflation statistics to be released soon, said Jing Ulrich, the chairwoman of China equities at JP Morgan in Hong Kong. But she added that the government was unlikely to raise interest rates in response, limiting longer-term effects.
 The earthquake's effect on electricity generation in China, through the disruption of coal supplies and the temporary shutdown of power generation at some hydroelectric dams, remains unclear. 
 Rapid factory construction, combined with soaring sales of household appliances like air-conditioners, has left China chronically short of electricity since 2000. In some provinces, utilities have sometimes shut off electricity to factories for up to three days a week to avoid blackouts in residential neighborhoods -- prompting factories to buy their own, heavily polluting diesel generators.
 A spate of power plant construction since 2004, mostly coal-fired, has relieved the worst of the shortages. But in the past two years, another problem has appeared: China is struggling to mine enough coal to satisfy all the coal-fired plants.
 Even before the earthquake, China faced the threat of serious power shortages this summer. Some power plants ran down their stockpiles to less than a week of coal; power plants in the United States are typically required by lenders to hold at least two months' coal in reserve.
 Though Sichuan Province mines less than 1 percent of China's coal, one of the country's main rail arteries for distributing coal runs through the quake-affected area and was temporarily blocked by quake debris, Xinhua, the official news agency, reported on Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A bus on a temporary road replacing a bridge in Sichuan Province that collapsed in the May earthquake. The region's transportation infrastructure was disrupted.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NIR ELIAS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES (93%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); FOOD PRICES (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); BANKING IN CHINA (70%); LIFE INSURANCE (70%); PORK (70%); INSURANCE POLICIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (66%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (64%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (97%); SICHUAN, CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); SHAANXI, CHINA (58%); GANSU, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



91 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Toll Brothers Reports a Loss, But Not as Deep as Expected

BYLINE: By ABHA BHATTARAI

 BODY:
Toll Brothers, the builder of luxury homes, reported a second-quarter loss on Tuesday, still hurt by plunging home prices and a weakened economy. But the results were better than expected, and the company's shares were up more than 4 percent in midday trading.
 Toll Brothers, based in Horsham, Pa., said the net loss was $93.7 million, or 59 cents a share, compared with a profit of $36.7 million, or 22 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. The net income included pretax write-downs of $288.1 million, or $1.06 a share, that Toll Brothers attributed to declining land values and exposure to joint ventures. 
 Revenue fell 30 percent, to $818.8 million from $1.17 billion a year earlier. The value of the company's net contracts dropped 58 percent, to $496.5 million from $1.17 billion.
 ''Demand continues to be weak in most markets as our clients worry about selling their existing homes or entering the market before prices stabilize,'' the company's chief executive, Robert I. Toll, said in a statement.
 Home builders continue to struggle amid declining home prices and sales, tightening credit and a burgeoning inventory of unsold houses.
 ''The spring selling season was a complete bust again for the third year in a row,'' said Nishu Sood, an analyst at Deutsche Bank. ''There's really little reason for optimism.''
 But James Wilson, an analyst at JMP Securities, said the results mean ''virtually nothing'' to the trajectory of the larger housing market.
 ''The luxury market is always the last to go up and the last to come down,'' he said, adding that the 50 percent decrease in Toll Brothers order volume is a sign that the company is ''turning down.'' 
 ''We're finding a bottom and are going to be bouncing along that bottom for a while,'' Mr. Wilson said.
 The average contract price per unit in the second quarter was $590,000, compared with $711,000 in the quarter a year earlier and $634,000 in the first quarter. The company attributed the decline to increased incentives, a higher percentage of contracts from lower-priced communities and fewer sales in high-priced markets like California.
 Mr. Toll, the chief executive, called on lawmakers for help in spurring sales.
 ''We believe Congress should jump-start demand for new homes with an initiative that will bring buyers off the sidelines and into the market, and thereby stop the downward spiral of home prices,'' he said in his statement. ''As we have said before, we favor a tax incentive for all those who buy homes within nine months of the bill's passage; this would create a sense of urgency.''
 Despite the net loss, Toll's results were not as bad as many analysts expected, and its shares closed up 64 cents, or 3 percent, at $21.60.
 Hovnanian Posts a Loss
 Hovnanian Enterprises, New Jersey's biggest home builder, reported its seventh consecutive quarterly loss on Tuesday as the value of its land continued to decline.
 The loss widened to $340.7 million, or $5.29 a share, in the fiscal second quarter, which ended April 30, compared with a year-earlier loss of $30.7 million, or 49 cents, the builder, based in Red Bank, N.J., said in a statement. Eight analysts polled by Bloomberg expected Hovnanian's loss to be $2.77 a share.
 Revenue for the quarter fell to $776.4 million, from $1.11 billion a year earlier, according to the statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TAX LAW (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: JMP GROUP INC (54%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%)

TICKER: JMP (NYSE) (54%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

PERSON: ROBERT I TOLL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



92 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: In a First, Asian Autos Outsold Detroit's in May

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
The three Detroit automakers were outsold for the first time ever by their Asian rivals in May, and a sedan was the top-selling vehicle in the United States for the first time in 16 years.
 General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler combined for a record low market share of 44.4 percent, compared with 48.1 percent for 10 Asian brands, according to the Autodata Corporation, the industry statistics firm. 
 Toyota Motor of Japan pulled to within 10,000 vehicles of overtaking G.M. in United States sales, and Honda posted its highest monthly sales total ever. 
 Not since December 1992 has a car -- not a truck -- been the country's top-selling vehicle. 
 But in May, the Honda Civic, a compact car available with either a hybrid or gasoline engine, displaced Ford's F-series pickup truck as the month's best-selling vehicle. Honda's midsize offering, the Accord, and two Toyota sedans also outsold the F-series, whose sales plunged 33 percent. 
 ''Clearly, for people who are shopping for a new car today, the only thing that matters is its fuel economy,'' said Ron Pinelli, the president of Autodata. ''The big vehicle that they once loved is now a source of pain for them when they fill up at the pump.''
 The Detroit automakers conceded Tuesday that they no longer expected consumers to change their behavior if gas prices recede, as happened after spikes in the 1970s and '80s.
 ''May was a watershed month,'' said James D. Farley, Ford's marketing chief. ''We are as an industry catching up with the breathtaking choices that customers are now making.''
 Even Ford's own compact car, the recently redesigned Focus, outsold the company's flagship F-series on a retail basis, which excludes sales to fleet operators that often buy pickups in bulk. Compact cars, which accounted for about a quarter of all sales by automakers in May, have ''now become clearly the core segment in the U.S. industry,'' Mr. Farley said.
 The sharp drop in sales of pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles caused overall American auto sales in May to fall 30 percent at G.M., 28 percent at Chrysler and 19 percent at Ford. G.M. claimed a market share of only 19.1 percent, about a third of the company's peak four decades ago.
 Across the industry, sales were down 14 percent. Toyota posted an 8 percent decline, though its market share increased. The head of Toyota Motor sales, Bob Carter, said the company had been hindered by production constraints and that its most fuel-efficient cars, including the Prius hybrid sedan, were selling as quickly as they could be built. ''Dealer stock for Prius is best measured in hours rather than days,'' Mr. Carter said.
 Jesse Toprak, senior director of industry analysis at Edmunds.com, said everyone was scrambling to keep up with one of the most rapid sea changes ever for the auto industry.
 ''The shift was so swift that it caught everybody by surprise, including Toyota,'' Mr. Toprak said. ''Dealers we've talked to said they could have sold twice as many Priuses easily, basically resulting in a record month.''
 Mark LaNeve, G.M.'s vice president for North American sales and marketing, maintained that the outlook for the months ahead was better, though not significantly.
 ''We're somewhere near the bottom,'' Mr. LaNeve said.
 Chrysler and Ford are each introducing redesigned versions of their full-size pickups later this year. Mr. Farley said Ford was confident that its new F-series could succeed, because many of the people who buy pickup trucks need them for work and cannot buy a smaller vehicle regardless of gas prices.
 But Mr. Farley also acknowledged that Ford would have a difficult time selling its inventory of the current F-series. He said the company would offer an ''employee pricing'' discount this month on the F-series, resurrecting a sales gimmick that all three Detroit automakers used several years ago. The discounts created a temporary spike in demand followed by a slump after they expired.
 Neither G.M. nor Chrysler signaled that they would match Ford's promotion, though Chrysler has extended until July 7 its own highly publicized offer, which allows buyers of its vehicles to purchase up to three years' worth of gas -- based on driving 12,000 miles a year -- at $2.99 a gallon.

GRAPHIC: CHART: How the Industry Fared
How Automakers Fared
 Most Popular Cars and Trucks.(Source: Autodata)Chart shows statistics for each vehicle. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE & PARTS DEALERS (75%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); STATISTICS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



93 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Rating Firms Seem Near Legal Deal On Reforms

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Under fire for the high ratings they awarded to subprime mortgage securities, three large credit rating firms are close to announcing a broad deal with the New York attorney general to reform some of their core business practices, according to people briefed on the investigation.
 Most significantly, the rating firms are considering changing how they charge fees for ratings to make it harder for investment banks to play the firms against one another to obtain a better rating, these people say, adding that negotiations are ongoing and the deal could still fall apart. 
 As part of the deal being discussed, the firms -- Standard & Poor's, Moody's Investors Service and Fitch Ratings -- would also aid Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo's broader investigation into how Wall Street packaged mortgages into securities, in exchange for immunity from prosecution. And the rating agencies will establish new standards for how investment banks review mortgage loans. 
 Mr. Cuomo has been investigating the once-booming and lucrative mortgage business for about a year. He is focusing on whether investment banks withheld critical information about the home loans they were packaging into bonds to be sold to investors like hedge funds, insurance companies and pension funds.
 As part of that investigation, Mr. Cuomo this year secured the cooperation of Clayton Holdings, a firm that reviews loan files on behalf of investment banks. His office has not formally charged any investment banks with wrongdoing.
 Regulators have struggled to assign blame for the mortgage debacle, at times pointing to everyone and no one in particular. Many institutions were involved in making loans, evaluating the debts and packaging them into securities. But rating firms played a critical role by awarding mortgage-backed securities triple-A ratings, a gold standard that allowed investors like pension funds and insurance companies to buy them.
 For decades, critics have charged that the nation's rating agencies faced conflicts of interest because they are paid by the investment banks or corporations whose securities they are rating. Before the 1970s, bond investors paid for ratings directly.
 Furthermore, critics say banks can shop for the best rating because they pay only after the deal is closed. If the banks are unhappy with the rating assigned by one firm, they can take it to a different rating company before the bond is issued, without letting investors know.
 Under the proposed deal with Mr. Cuomo, a rating agency would charge fees in stages for various analytical tasks -- not just the rating, which acts as a sort of grade for investors. They will also disclose every three months all deals that they were asked to rate and all the deals they end up rating, providing investors more information than is now available. 
 Lynn E. Turner, a former chief accountant for the Securities and Exchange Commission, said the change appeared to have merit but it would not eliminate the core conflict of interest. 
 ''It aids transparency but it doesn't solve the problem, because the same people -- the issuers -- are paying for the services, as opposed to the old model where the investors paid for the services,'' he said. ''The old model was a better model.''
 If they agree to Mr. Cuomo's deal, the ratings firms will require the investment banks to give them the diligence reports. They will also set the standards by which those reports are produced, in an effort to assure that the information is useful and relevant. 
 The president of S.& P., Deven Sharma, said in a statement that his company was working with Mr. Cuomo on measures that ''will help ensure our ratings process continues to be of the highest quality.'' Officials at Fitch and Moody's declined to comment.
 On June 11, the S.E.C. is expected to release a proposal to revise rules for ratings firms. The agency may propose that the firms publish a history of their ratings and that they publicize the fact that mortgage securities ratings are more volatile than ratings assigned to bonds issued by companies or municipalities.
 It is unclear how much the proposed deal advances Mr. Cuomo's case against the banks. Armed with the powerful Martin Act, the attorney general could potentially bring civil or criminal charges against firms if he could prove that they withheld material or significant information from credit rating firms and investors. 
 In the past, the investment banks have asserted that they provided adequate disclosures about the risks posed by the loans but that many investors did not bother to carefully evaluate securities they were buying. And the ratings firms argued they were not provided the due diligence reports produced by companies like Clayton. 
 Some of the firms have said that they have since found that there was significant fraud in the making of the loans that backed some of the worst-performing securities -- fraud that no one detected until it was too late. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo of New York.(PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); LAWYERS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); IMMUNITY (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (56%); CLAYTON HOLDINGS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



94 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2273 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 4, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 QUAKE'S EFFECT ON CHINA ECONOMY
 APPEARS TO BE LIMITED
 The powerful earthquake that devastated southwestern China three weeks ago seems to have had a limited effect on China's overall economy. Only 1 percent of China's population lives in the most affected area, in northern Sichuan Province. Those residents account for an even smaller share of China's economic output, because many of them are impoverished farmers. PAGE A12 
 RICE AIMS AT IRAN IN SPEECH
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice escalated the Bush administration's anti-Iran rhetoric, accusing that nation's government of pursuing nuclear weapons and calling any dialogue with its leaders pointless until they suspend the country's enrichment of uranium. Ms. Rice's speech took oblique aim at Senator Barack Obama and other Democratic leaders who have called for the United States to engage Iran diplomatically. PAGE A8 
 GRAND PRIX BOSS KEEPS JOB
 Despite the scandal touched off by his participation in a videotaped sex session with five prostitutes that a British tabloid newspaper described as having Nazi overtones, Max Mosley, the overseer of grand prix motor racing, won a vote of confidence to keep his job. Mr. Mosley made no statement after the results were announced, but said that he intended to serve out his current five-year term as president of the Federation Internationale de l'Automobile. PAGE A13 
 CHINA ACTS IN DEADLY DRUG CASE
 The deaths of six hospital patients who received a blood-based drug at a hospital in the south-central Chinese province of Jiangxi have prompted an unusually swift and vigorous response from Chinese regulators, the first sign that the government may be following through on promises of tighter scrutiny of the pharmaceutical industry. Officials face an uphill task in trying to bring under control a highly fragmented industry with a history of bribing regulators to ignore safety violations. PAGE A12 
 THE HIGH COSTS OF THE FOOD CRISIS
 Faced with an immediate hunger crisis and the need to double food supplies in the next 30 years, world leaders meeting in Rome to discuss soaring food prices were mostly in agreement on how the problem could be resolved: Deliver more food aid to the world's hungry; provide small farmers with seeds and fertilizer; scrap export bans; and increase agriculture research programs to improve crop production. The questions were how and who was going to pay the cost, which Jacques Diouf, director general of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, above right, with Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy, estimated to be $30 billion a year. PAGE A6 
 Liquid Bomb Plot Trial Continues A7 
 Ayatollah Calls Iran Plan Peaceful A8 
 NATIONAL
 FIGHT OVER NUCLEAR WASTE
 THAT COULD FIGHT CANCER
 Uranium 233 is not found in nature, but researchers say it shows great promise in cancer treatments. The Energy Department has said that it's too risky and expensive to keep, and a proposed cleanup of nuclear waste of the cold war era could eliminate the supply of the isotope. The dispute is part of a rare instance where environmental cleanup and human health are in direct opposition. PAGE A16 
 GIRL CANNOT CONTACT FATHER
 A day after the children from a polygamist group in West Texas began to return home to their parents from state foster care, a judge barred any contact between a 16-year-old girl and her father, the sect's leader. The girl's lawyers said she was sexually abused as a member of the group. Her father is serving a sentence of 10 years to life for forcing an under-age girl in his sect to marry against her will. PAGE A16
 WHERE EVICTION SPARES FEW
 Miami-Dade County in Florida has been particularly hard hit by the foreclosure crisis: eviction requests from landlords have jumped from 1,157 in the first four months of 2007 to 4,726 in the same period this year. And one failure often leads to another: when an owner can't keep up, banks, renters and developers soon follow. PAGE A14 
 EVOLUTION FOES' NEW STRATEGY
 The state board of education in Texas will sit down this summer to decide whether the ''strengths and weaknesses'' of evolution should be taught in science textbooks. The state is one of several discussing the issue, which critics say is another way for students to hear religious objections under the heading of scientific discourse. PAGE A14
 NEW YORK REGION 
 CRANE OPERATOR MOURNED IN STATEN ISLAND
 Donald Leo, the crane operator who so loved sports that kids on his street would shout for him to come out and play Wiffle ball, crossed New Dorp Lane in Staten Island on the shoulders of eight men, most of them his father's age, to his funeral. ''When I think of things that he did, they were always big,'' Mr. Leo's brother said in a eulogy. ''Larger than life.'' Mr. Leo was one of two construction workers killed last week when a crane collapsed in Manhattan. Across the harbor, investigations continued into what caused the crane to fall. PAGE B1 
 BUSINESS
 COULD THIS BE THE DEATH KNELL
 FOR THE SUV?
 There seems to be no ceiling for gas prices, and so General Motors, which has been a steadfast champion of gas-guzzling big sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks, is rethinking the way it does business. The company also said it was considering selling the Hummer brand. In total, it could be a pronouncement of death for the SUV category. ''We don't believe it's a spike or a temporary shift,'' the company's chairman said of consumer behavior. ''We believe it is permanent.'' PAGE C1 
 TOE-TO-TOE WITH INTEL
 The troubled chip maker Advanced Micro Devices is gearing up to tangle with Intel once more. The company is scheduled to unveil its new Puma line of chips. The company says these chips conserve power and have stronger graphics and video capabilities. A.M.D. hopes the move helps it hold onto its share of the laptop market, which Intel dominates. PAGE C4 
 THREATS OF AN OUSTER AT YAHOO
 Carl Icahn, the investor, wants Jerry Yang out at Yahoo. Mr. Icahn pointed to documents that said Mr. Yang, Yahoo's chief executive, never seriously considered Microsoft's offer to acquire the company, and vowed that he would remove Mr. Yang if he succeeded in replacing the company's board with his own slate of directors. PAGE C1 
 START-UP RELEASES FLIP CAMCORDER
 Pure Digital is a small San Francisco start-up that managed to secure a healthy chunk of the video camera market in the last year. That's mainly due to its Flip Camcorder, a tiny, inexpensive four-button device that has gotten rave reviews and sold a million units. It has also spawned a bevy of imitators, so Pure Digital is going to begin selling the Flip Video Mino, which is 40 percent smaller than the previous version, and is meant to slip into the pockets or pocketbooks of members of the MySpace generation. PAGE C7 
 Damage in Universal Fire C9 
 MSN's Expensive Gamble C2 
 OBITUARIES
 MEL FERRER, 90
 An actor who disliked acting in films as much as he loved directing them, he nevertheless made his name in front of the cameras in films like ''The Brave Bulls,'' ''Lili'' and ''War and Peace.'' Mr. Ferrer was also widely known for his ties with Audrey Hepburn, his wife of 14 years. He directed and acted with her on-screen. To American television viewers, Mr. Ferrer was familiar as the Jane Wyman character's lawyer (and later husband) on the CBS nighttime soap opera ''Falcon Crest.'' PAGE A23 
 PAUL SILLS, 80
 He was a founder of the influential Second City theater company, and was considered a godfather of modern improvisational sketch comedy. His approach to theater directly fed into the creation of ''Saturday Night Live'' and influenced a range of artists including David Mamet and Richard Foreman. PAGE A23 
 ARTS
 A VERY AMERICAN TAKE
 ON CULTURAL FUND-RAISING
 Europeans used to frown upon the idea that cultural institutions would hit up wealthy donors and private companies for money the way Americans do. Michael Kimmelman writes that a once-beleaguered concert hall in Germany -- that used the American model without American-style tax breaks -- has become a force to be reckoned with, and one from which people on both sides of the Atlantic could learn. PAGE E1 
 ANTIQUITIES RULES FOR MUSEUMS
 The 190-member Association of Art Museum Directors said it would announce new guidelines on how member institutions should collect antiquities, a hot-button issue that has led to international cultural skirmishes. The group acknowledged that it would be more difficult for its museums to build antiquities collections, but would also slow the flow of objects that have been illegally collected. PAGE E2 
 'JESUS FREAKS,' JAZZ HANDS
 The movie ''Saved!'' is about the drama in the lives of students at a Christian high school. Charles Isherwood says that the movie had a rough time figuring out its tone -- mocking, sort of? -- a drawback that carries over to the sweet, sanitized new musical based on it. ''Why does it often feel like 'Legally Blonde,' only with, like, Jesus freaks?'' PAGE E1 
 ASHANTI'S PLEASANT SURPRISE
 Ashanti came to fame as a sort of musical accessory, softening up the sounds of tough-guy rappers with a pretty, innocuous voice. She's back with her fourth album after a four-year hiatus, and at a recent show at the Knitting Factory in Manhattan, she showed off a stronger voice than she is generally known for. PAGE E5 
 DINING IN
 SO SIMPLE A FOUR-ARMED GENIUS 
 Could Whip It Up
 If you've picked up a cookbook or recipe and came across ingredients that were impossible to procure or instructions that bordered on Herculean, you are not alone. There are the red flags: ''working quickly,'' ''before it hardens,'' and directions to order the required pig's blood from a butcher. And then there are the traumatic botched recipes that have scarred a cook for life. PAGE F1 
 THE STUFF OF FICTION
 The author Lara Vapnyar says that emigrating to the United States from Soviet-era Russia ''is a little like being from Atlantis.'' Her nostalgia for the cuisine of that specific time and place -- canned peas and boiled bologna, for example -- has informed her works of fiction, including her latest, ''Broccoli and Other Tales of Food and Love.'' PAGE F1 
 INDIA'S WINE BOOM
 The government of India says that investment in winemaking there has jumped by 74 percent in the last year. Most of the wine produced in the country is also bought there. There are some specific concerns for making wine in India. The wine season is flipped in order to avoid stifling heat and the summer monsoon season. But on the plus side, there are no worries about unseasonal cold snaps and rain. PAGE F6 
 A DOLL HOUSE WITH A SPICE RACK
 Frank Bruni writes that Elletaria, in Greenwich Village, looks like ''a hope chest bloomed into a restaurant.'' The decor is whimsical and adorable, but it is also awkward and cramped, which he says detracts from some impressively creative cooking. PAGE F8 
 SPORTS
 A CHANCE TO BEAT 
 THE HORSE HE NEVER ROAD
 Edgar Prado fell and broke his ankle days before he was supposed to ride a racehorse in its career debut. That horse was Big Brown -- who is favored to complete a Triple Crown sweep in the Belmont Stakes on Sunday. At Belmont, Prado will have a chance to play spoiler as the rider of another horse, Casino Drive. PAGE D6 
 THE SEEDS OF A RIVALRY
 O.K., so it's the most storied rivalry in professional basketball. Wilt vs. Russell, West vs. Cousy, Magic vs. Bird, Kurt Rambis's neck vs. Kevin McHale's forearm. But the first time the Lakers and Celtics met in the N.B.A. Finals in 1962, the Celtics' ire was reserved mostly for the hated Syracuse Nationals. But over those seven games -- Boston won the series, 4-3 -- the seeds of the rivalry took root. PAGE D1 
 THE GREAT, UH, HOPE
 In Youngstown, Ohio, they called Kelly Pavlik ''The Ghost'' early in his boxing career because he was so hard to hit. (He's a power puncher now.) The nickname stuck, albeit for a different reason. ''In a totally nonpolitically correct way of saying it: He's white and a Midwestern kid,'' a boxing journalist said. Some think that fact, coupled with his skill in the ring (he is 33-0 with 29 knockouts) gives him the potential to transcend to the glamour list of boxers. PAGE D1 
 EDITORIAL
 MEXICO AT THE BRINK
 The War on Drugs may be fading from memory north of the Rio Grande, but south of the river, bloody battles are threatening to overwhelm Mexico's democratically elected government. The timid assistance package proposed by the Bush administration and pared down by Congress suggests that Washington doesn't grasp either the scale of the danger or its own responsibilities. PAGE A24
 THE SCIENCE OF DENIAL
 The Bush administration has worked overtime to manipulate or conceal scientific evidence to justify its failure to address climate change. The costly result is that this nation has lost seven years in a struggle in which time is not on anyone's side. PAGE A24
 PROPERTY TAXES '08
 New York's homeowners can't be blamed for wanting relief from today's heart-stopping property tax bills. But a new call to cap property taxes for schools is an election-year gimmick that will do far more damage than good. PAGE A24
 OP-ED
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 The big debate in the mid-1980s was whether Israel's settlement-building in the West Bank had passed a point of no return -- a point where any serious withdrawal became virtually impossible to imagine. We are at a point now where the only thing that might work is ''radical pragmatism'' -- a pragmatism that is as radical and energetic as the extremism that it hopes to nullify. PAGE A25

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (87%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (85%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); CROP RESEARCH (76%); AGRICULTURE (76%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); SCANDALS (72%); CROP PRODUCTION (71%); FERTILIZERS (71%); FOOD PRICES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); ONCOLOGY (69%); NUCLEAR WASTE (69%); CANCER (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); EXPORT CONTROLS (69%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (68%); FORMULA ONE RACING (68%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (67%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (66%); HOSPITALS (64%); BOMBINGS (64%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); BLOOD DERIVATIVES (50%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (79%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); CENTRAL CHINA (90%); SICHUAN, CHINA (73%); JIANGXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



95 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Union Takes Anti-Buyout Campaign Worldwide

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
It started with faux billionaires in the Hamptons and a fat-cat tycoon (or at least an actor wearing a cat mask) in Washington. Now, a union-led campaign against wealthy private equity firms is going global. 
 Beginning Wednesday, the Service Employees International Union, one of the country's biggest unions, will call upon people to attend protests on July 17 in 100 cities in 25 countries. The rallying cry will be: Take back the economy from buyout firms that the union says have exploited tax loopholes to amass great wealth at others' expense. 
 ''We think the buyout industry and the way it operates are systematic of what's wrong in this economy,'' said Stephen Lerner, director of the union's private equity project. ''We want to make them responsible corporate citizens.''
 The private equity industry counters that the union is using street theater and overheated rhetoric to bolster its membership rolls.
 ''They're using a battering ram of increasingly extreme and hysterical attacks,'' said Douglas Lowenstein, the president of the Private Equity Council, an industry lobbying group. ''They've undermined any opportunity for constructive dialogue.''
 The S.E.I.U.'s latest effort is an escalation of a fight that began last April, when it began a broad campaign against private equity firms with a study questioning the value that the leveraged buyout industry adds to the national economy.
 Since then, the union has trained its sights on two of the biggest private equity firms around -- the Carlyle Group and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts -- as it seeks to clamp down on the handsome profits that those companies reaped during the buyout boom.
 The union argues that buyout executives like David M. Rubenstein of Carlyle and Henry R. Kravis of Kohlberg Kravis have gamed the tax code, reaping huge gains by piling debt on companies their firms have acquired, only to deduct the interest from their corporate taxes.
 S.E.I.U. officials acknowledge, however, that changing the tax code could upend the modern corporate regime and say they have not endorsed any specific proposals.
 The union also argues that the attention on private equity firms has been justified by the huge role they now play in the economy. Companies owned at least in part by Kohlberg Kravis employ more than 816,000 people, according to the firm's Web site -- more than the population of San Francisco.
 The fight has been contentious at times, notably during an altercation between an S.E.I.U. member and Mr. Rubenstein at an industry conference in Philadelphia. And the bulk of the S.E.I.U.'s campaign has taken place amid the credit squeeze, which has all but squelched private equity's lifeblood of striking deals. 
 To the union, however, that same economic malaise has hurt ordinary workers more.
 ''We want to take back the economy from individuals like Henry Kravis and companies like K.K.R. who have made billions gaming the system while millions of Americans are having a hard time paying for their car,'' Mr. Lerner said.
 For its latest campaign, the S.E.I.U. has enlisted the irascible comic Lewis Black for a video professing bewilderment at how buyout executives make their living via financial engineering. It is teaming up with groups like MoveOn.org and Amnesty International to drum up participation in the July 17 mass protest. 
 And in tune with the times, the union plans to introduce a political angle in its attack against private equity: The S.E.I.U. will highlight the fund-raising that Mr. Kravis, a longtime Republican donor, has done for Senator John McCain, that party's likely presidential nominee. The goal, S.E.I.U. officials say, is to highlight the unwillingness of Mr. McCain to consider revamping the tax code and make a partisan appeal to a possible Democratic administration and more Democratic Congress.
 The union will encourage supporters in other countries to support similar tax code measures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (94%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (86%); THEATER (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); LOBBYING (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (90%); KKR & CO LP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (58%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (90%); KKR (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%)

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



96 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chairman Signals an End to Interest Rate Cuts Amid Concerns About Inflation

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, signaled on Tuesday that further interest rate cuts were unlikely because of concerns about inflation. 
 High oil prices are a double-edged sword that can both put a damper on already weak growth and spread inflation, he said. 
 Mr. Bernanke, in remarks delivered via satellite to an international monetary conference in Barcelona, Spain, said that the Fed's powerful doses of rate reductions, which started in September, along with the government's $168 billion stimulus package, including rebates for people and tax breaks for businesses, should bring about ''somewhat better economic conditions'' in the second half of this year.
 To help brace the economy, the Fed in late April dropped its key rate to 2 percent, a nearly four-year low, but hinted that could be the last reduction for a while. Mr. Bernanke drove that point home again on Tuesday.
 ''For now policy seems well positioned to promote moderate growth and price stability over time,'' he said.
 The Fed's juggling act has become harder. It is trying to right a wobbly economy without aggravating inflation.
 Many economists believe the Fed will hold rates steady at its next meeting in late June and probably through much, if not all, of this year. A few believe that inflation could flare up and force the Fed to begin increasing rates near the end of this year.
 But Mr. Bernanke suggested that leaving rates at their current levels should be sufficient to accomplish the Fed's twin goals of nurturing economic growth while preventing inflation from taking off.
 Economic growth in the current quarter, he acknowledged, is ''likely to be relatively weak.'' Even as he reiterated the Fed's hope for a pickup in growth in the second half of this year and into 2009, Mr. Bernanke said the economy continued to battle against negative forces -- a housing slump, credit problems and fragile financial markets.
 Until the slumping housing market and falling home prices show ''clearer signs of stabilization,'' there will continue to be threats to improved economic growth, he said. Moreover, recent increases in oil prices pose ''additional downside risks to growth,'' he said.
 At the same time, if already lofty oil prices, now above $124 a barrel, continue to rise, that could worsen inflation, Mr. Bernanke warned.
 The Fed's aggressive rate-cutting campaign has contributed to a lower value for the dollar. That, in turn, has helped push up the prices for imported goods flowing into the United States and fueled a rise in consumer prices. Mr. Bernanke called that development ''unwelcome.'' He said the Fed was ''attentive to the implications of changes in the value of the dollar for inflation and inflation expectations.''
 During a question-and-answer session, Mr. Bernanke called the dollar's impact on the rise in commodity prices ''relatively modest'' and said that global supply and demand were more important factors driving up energy prices and other prices. Still, the ''weaker dollar does have inflationary impact,'' and the Fed is attuned to that, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); IMPORT PRICES (73%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (72%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



97 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Property Taxes '08

 BODY:
New York's homeowners can't be blamed for wanting relief from today's heart-stopping property-tax bills. But a new call to cap property taxes for schools is an election-year gimmick that will do far more damage than good. Gov. David Paterson, who endorsed the idea on Tuesday, should take a deep breath and then call for a broader look at ways to make taxes fairer and the state's contributions to schools more equitable. 
 The proposal would allow local property taxes for schools -- usually about 60 percent of the bill -- to increase at no more than 4 percent each year outside of the cities. To go over that cap, at least 55 percent of local voters would have to approve it. But as communities in California and Massachusetts have learned the hard way, a tax cap is a dangerously blunt instrument. 
 California's schools have been forced to slash vital services. In Massachusetts, the state has tried to make up the difference by increasing its school budget by more than 8 percent after inflation, a leap that New York is unlikely to be able to maintain.
 The property-tax cap is the headline proposal from a commission on tax relief led by the Nassau County executive, Thomas Suozzi. It is as if the group decided to fix only one gear in the state's very complicated tax apparatus. The proposal would not give any relief to property owners or even renters in urban areas of the state. Instead, if the state decides to pour more money into suddenly cash-starved nonurban school districts, the cap could well result in added burdens in the cities.
 There are some aspects of the Suozzi plan that deserve serious attention. One is a proposal to overhaul the hodgepodge of property-tax rebates and exemptions, most a result of political favoritism in Albany. Another recommends incentives for helping school districts consolidate, a better way of saving taxpayer money. 
 The best part of the Suozzi proposal could be done more quickly. That is a ''circuit breaker'' program that would freeze individual property taxes when they became too large a percentage of a homeowner's income. 
 The whole package may be little more than a campaign rallying cry for suburban and upstate lawmakers. The teachers' union is against it, a virtual veto these days in Albany. Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver has urged caution. He's right. Governor Paterson should get the state's tax experts to look at the whole picture, and not just listen to one group of angry taxpayers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); VETO (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); COUNTIES (73%); TAX CONSULTING (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (54%); TEACHER UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



98 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Lautenberg Easily Wins Spirited Primary Race, Despite a Tepid Turnout

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN; Jonathan Miller and Nate Schweber contributed reporting.

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
In a barbed contest that focused as much on his age as on his accomplishments, Senator Frank R. Lautenberg easily swatted away a challenge from Representative Robert E. Andrews in the Democratic primary on Tuesday and will seek his fifth term in the Senate in November. 
 From the time Mr. Andrews stunned the state's political establishment by entering the race in April, he tried to frame his candidacy as one about change versus the status quo -- a code phrase for the sentiment that the 84-year-old Mr. Lautenberg, who entered the Senate in 1982, should step aside. 
 But Mr. Lautenberg responded with a spirited campaign that attacked Mr. Andrews, 50, for initially supporting the war in Iraq and other policies that leaned more Republican than Democratic. At 11:20 p.m., with 94 percent of the vote counted, Mr. Lautenberg led Mr. Andrews, 61 to 34 percent, while Mayor Donald Cresitello of Morristown, garnered 6 percent.
 On the Republican side, with 93 percent of the vote counted, former Representative Richard A. Zimmer had 46 percent, while State Senator Joseph Pennacchio had 40 percent and Murray Sabrin had 14 percent.
 ''To the winner of the Republican nomination for the Senate,'' Mr. Lautenberg said to supporters in Newark, ''we don't need a senator from New Jersey voting against progress, against change and against the interests of working families.
 ''New Jersey's senator needs to be an advocate for the people, not an apologist for Bush, or for someone who makes their living supporting special interests. Get it?''
 Mr. Zimmer wasted no time touting his record as a fiscal conservative.
 ''I am running for the U.S. Senate as the un-Lautenberg,'' Mr. Zimmer told his supporters in Princeton. ''I believe New Jersey families are better off when your money stays here rather than being sent off to Washington.'' 
 Turnout appeared to be low, with some polling places reporting intervals of 30 minutes or more between voters. Then again, New Jersey voters had already voted in the presidential primary in February.
 In addition to the Senate primaries, voters also chose candidates for Congressional races, as well as a smattering of county and local seats.
 The most closely watched Congressional contest was an unexpectedly nasty Republican battle in central New Jersey in which State Senator Leonard Lance, a veteran legislator and former minority leader with a reputation as a fiscal conservative, comfortably defeated six other candidates for the seat held by Representative Mike Ferguson, who is stepping down.
 Mr. Lance will now take on Assemblywoman Linda Stender.
 But it was the Democratic Party that dominated statewide politics for the last two months after Mr. Andrews announced that he would challenge Mr. Lautenberg despite pledging -- along with the other members of New Jersey's Democratic Congressional delegation -- not to do so. 
 Mr. Andrews's decision touched off a classic scrum among New Jersey's power brokers. Not surprisingly, Mr. Andrews lined up support in South Jersey as well as in the voter-rich pockets of Newark and Middlesex and Union Counties, while Mr. Lautenberg kept a tight grip on most of the state's powerful county organizations as well as the support of Gov. Jon S. Corzine, Senator Robert Menendez and other high-ranking Democrats. 
 From the outset, Mr. Andrews -- 34 years younger than the incumbent -- said that he was the superior candidate because he possessed more energy. He produced a sharp-edged commercial reminding voters that in Mr. Lautenberg's first race for Senate, in 1982, Mr. Lautenberg questioned whether his Republican opponent, Representative Millicent Fenwick, was too old at 72 to be an effective legislator. 
 But Mr. Lautenberg, who portrayed himself as just as vigorous as when he was growing up on the streets of Paterson, framed the contest largely as a referendum on the war in Iraq. Mr. Andrews was a leading sponsor of the resolution authorizing the use of force, and stood close to President Bush during a White House signing ceremony. Mr. Lautenberg argued that Mr. Andrews was too close to the President on a host of issues, making him too conservative for New Jersey, where Democrats outnumber Republicans by a 5-to-3 ratio. 
 Still, Mr. Andrews was endorsed by most of the state's newspapers, based on his plans to change health care policy and stimulate the sagging economy. He also outperformed Mr. Lautenberg at two debates, though they came late in campaign that drew little interest. In the end, Mr. Lautenberg simply had too much support from the Democratic establishment. 
 In Roselle Park, Bill Carroll, 69, a retired teacher and administrator, captured the sentiments of many voters, saying that although Mr. Andrews was ''a good candidate,'' that was not enough to boot out an incumbent. ''I think he's getting pretty old, but he's still pretty sharp,'' Mr. Carroll said of Mr. Lautenberg. 
 But for him, the real deal breaker was the war in Iraq. ''From Day 1, I could not support someone who voted to go to war,'' Mr. Carroll said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After voting in Cliffside Park, N.J., Senator Frank R. Lautenberg greeted Sylvia Visconti. With his victory on Tuesday, Mr. Lautenberg will be running for a fifth term in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARMINE GALASSO/THE RECORD, VIA THE ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (71%); IRAQ WAR (69%); FAMILY (64%)

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (93%); ROBERT E ANDREWS (90%); LEONARD LANCE (57%); MIKE FERGUSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (69%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



99 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: After Grueling Battle, Obama Claims Nomination

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama heads into the general election with obvious advantages: He is a Democratic candidate running in a sour atmosphere for Republicans, in a contest where voters are hungry for change and coming out of a campaign in which he filled arena after arena with supporters.
 Yet while he would like to shift his attention fully to the onslaught already coming from Senator John McCain and the Republicans, Mr. Obama still has problems in his own party that may overshadow everything else until he addresses them: How to repair relations with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and her supporters and whether to offer her a spot on the ticket. 
 Mrs. Clinton used her final hours of the long primary season to make clear that she would be open to being Mr. Obama's running mate. If there was ever any hope in Democratic circles that she would let Mr. Obama off the hook with an evasion or a flat declaration of no interest, Mrs. Clinton dashed it on Tuesday.
 Like her husband, Mrs. Clinton has a way of becoming the center of attention even when the spotlight is supposed to be trained elsewhere, a reality that Mr. Obama will no doubt continue to confront no matter how he proceeds. It was hardly a surprise that Mr. Obama lavished praise on Mrs. Clinton and her accomplishments in his remarks Tuesday night.
 Until he deals with the Clinton question, it could be hard for Mr. Obama to move on to what he would like to achieve next: presenting himself to the entire electorate and not just Democrats, laying out his political ideology before Mr. McCain does it on his terms and trying to rectify some of the weaknesses highlighted by the combative primary process.
 Beyond that, there are other questions. Can he survive an onslaught from a Republican machine that has proved adept over the past 20 years at discrediting Democratic candidates, particularly those with limited experience in running national campaigns? Is he, given his voting record, vulnerable to the kind of attacks Mr. McCain began Tuesday night as he sought to portray Mr. Obama as out of touch with much of the country on issues like taxes, government and threats to American security? 
 Much of the cautious optimism in the Obama campaign is based on the expectation that this is a turn-the-page election, that deep anger with President Bush, along with discontent over the war in Iraq and the economy will be channeled into a Democratic victory in November. But it is not yet clear that those substantive issues will fully trump cultural issues and values -- like race, patriotism and class -- or the question of whether voters will judge Mr. Obama, just a few years out of the Illinois legislature, to have the experience necessary to sit in the Oval Office.
 There would be obvious advantages to an Obama-Clinton ticket. For one, it would go far toward healing wounded feelings among Mrs. Clinton's supporters, especially women. Some of those supporters have suggested that they would either stay home or vote for Mr. McCain, who made an explicit appeal for their support Tuesday night as he tried to increase pressure on Mr. Obama. Mrs. Clinton would provide Mr. Obama with some of the foreign policy credentials he needs, bring her own bank of contributors and probably help put more states in play.
 ''I think the world of both of them,'' said Senator Thomas R. Carper, Democrat of Delaware. ''I want to see them run as a team.''
 Yet there is clear, if not publicly expressed, apprehension in Mr. Obama's circle about the wisdom of asking her to join the ticket. After gaining so much attention by campaigning on a promise of bringing fresh faces to Washington, Mr. Obama would be asking voters to put another Clinton in the White House, though in the No. 2 spot. 
 Mrs. Clinton does not come alone; beyond her own history -- and the legions of voters who do not like her -- she would bring along former President Bill Clinton, whose baggage might well be judged by Mr. Obama to outweigh his political skills, especially after a primary season that left Mr. Clinton's reputation dented.
 And running for president is very much about presenting command and authority. A crucial rule in the vice-presidential selection process is to avoid the perception of being pressured into a decision by a potential running mate. 
 ''It's backward looking to pick a Clinton at this point -- and he's all about forward looking, to being about change,'' said Matt Bennett, a co-founder of Third Way, a moderate Democratic organization. ''He's all about a fundamentally new kind of politics. Picking a Clinton is by definition backward looking, and I just don't think he wants that.''
 What is more, some Democrats argued that rather than producing a ticket that would be bigger than the sum of its parts, it might have the opposite effect by pushing away both the groups of voters who are reluctant to vote for an African-American and those who are reluctant to vote for a woman.
 Throughout the campaign, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama had a relationship that veered between strained and strange. Mr. Obama once referred to her during a debate as ''likable enough,'' while Mrs. Clinton at one point said she and Mr. McCain could offer voters ''a lifetime of experience'' while Mr. Obama ''will put forth a speech he made in 2002,'' a reference to the address in Chicago before he was elected to the Senate in which he came out against the Iraq war.
 Inevitably, as the campaign continued, relations between the two sides got worse -- exacerbated by Mrs. Clinton's unwavering insistence that she would be the stronger candidate against Mr. McCain; some of Mr. Clinton's remarks, like his characterization of Mr. Obama's strong and consistent opposition to the war as a ''fairy tale''; and impatience among Mr. Obama's supporters with Mrs. Clinton's decision to stay in the race to the end.
 Mrs. Clinton's actions on Tuesday could not have raised her stock with Mr. Obama. Whether she intended to or not, her remarks pulled the spotlight away from him, reminding him that in many ways, she is a character that is hard to push off the stage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle, on Tuesday in St. Paul, watching Hillary Rodham Clinton's speech on television. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



100 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Senator Warns of a 'Crisis' In Pentagon Cost Overruns

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee on Tuesday declared that cost overruns for Defense Department weapons had ''reached crisis proportions,'' after government auditors reported that the projected final cost of the Pentagon's major programs had ballooned $295 billion over initial budget estimates. 
 The chairman, Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, also said that he would propose a law creating an independent director of cost assessment at the Pentagon. Mr. Levin said there was a need for stronger evaluation of whether contractors were making unrealistic promises to get programs started, ensuring later overruns and delays.
 ''It's going to take a fundamental change in the structure and the culture of the acquisition system to address that problem,'' Mr. Levin said at a committee hearing on the cost overruns.
 Testifying before the committee, the Pentagon's top procurement officer, John J. Young Jr., reserved judgment on Mr. Levin's proposal, saying he needed more time to study it. 
 The Defense Department has long struggled with overruns and delays stemming from a variety of causes, including unduly optimistic initial estimates and costly changes requested in the midst of a program. 
 But the system is growing worse, according to a report earlier this spring by the Government Accountability Office. 
 In 2000, for example, the projected cost of the Pentagon's 75 major weapon programs was $42 billion, or 27 percent, over initial budgets, and the average delay before initial deliveries of the systems was 16 months. By 2007, with 95 major weapons programs on the list, projected cost inflation had swollen to $295 billion, or 40 percent over early estimates, and the average delay had stretched out to 21 months.
 One of the problems, Mr. Levin noted, is that estimated unit costs for the Air Force's F-35 Joint Strike Fighter have grown by nearly 40 percent per plane, costing taxpayers billions of extra dollars.
 Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, called the overruns ''sickening'' and ''unacceptable,'' adding, ''This would never be tolerated in the private sector.''
 Adding to the dismal portrait, Bloomberg News on Monday reported that Pentagon auditors had uncovered flaws in Lockheed Martin Corporation's system for tracking costs and schedules for the Joint Strike Fighter program, rendering the data ''useless'' or ''suspect'' for identifying future problems before costs swell. 
 Lockheed Martin had agreed to a series of monthly milestones it must meet to correct the flaws, Mr. Young said. If it misses a milestone, he added, the government will withhold $10 million owed to the company. 
 Mr. Young, who took over defense acquisitions last year, won praise from the senators for his efforts to bring greater discipline to the procurement process, including creating panels to block unnecessary changes to program requirements. 
 Mr. Young also said he was pushing the military to look for other ways to save money, including by buying weapons at the most efficient annual rate to lower overall costs and by testing more prototypes before beginning production.
 But lawmakers said that more changes were necessary. Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, called the Pentagon's record on acquisition ''exasperating and embarrassing, and ultimately very harmful to our attempts to provide for our national security.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 26, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about the Pentagon's loss of engineering-management expertise overstated the percentage increase in projected cost overruns for 95 major weapons programs in 2007 and 75 projects in 2000. A $295 billion overrun projected for 2007 was 26 percent above initial estimates, not 40 percent. And a $42 billion estimated overrun in 2000 was 6 percent over budget, not 27 percent. (The 40 percent and 27 percent increases were for cost overruns in the projects' research and development in 2007 and 2000, respectively.) The incorrect percentages also appeared in an article on June 4 about a senator's criticism of the cost overruns.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, head of the Armed Services Committee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES)
 John J. Young Jr., the Pentagon's top procurement officer, said he was pushing for savings.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUDITS (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (74%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (85%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (90%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



101 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Shifts Focus to Small Cars in Sign of Sport Utility Demise

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting from Wilmington, Del.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Even General Motors, the steadfast champion of big sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks, is thinking small now.
 With no end in sight for elevated gas prices, G.M. announced drastic cuts in production of sport utility vehicles and pickups on Tuesday and stepped up plans for smaller cars and engines.
 G.M.'s chairman and chief executive, Rick Wagoner, said G.M. will cease production at four North American assembly plants that make S.U.V.'s and pickups by 2010.
 And in a humbling admission that the S.U.V. era is all but over, G.M., Detroit's leading automaker, said it was considering selling the gas-guzzling Hummer brand it once regarded as a pillar of future growth. 
 In announcing the changes, Mr. Wagoner said $4-a-gallon gas prices had forced a ''structural shift'' by American consumers away from large vehicles into more fuel-efficient cars.
 ''These prices are changing consumer behavior and changing it rapidly,'' Mr. Wagoner said before G.M.'s annual meeting in Wilmington, Del. ''We don't believe it's a spike or a temporary shift. We believe it is permanent.''
 While Ford Motor Company already slashed its pickup and S.U.V. output last month, the deep cuts at G.M. seem to be closing a chapter in the domestic auto industry. 
 ''I think G.M. is basically declaring the S.U.V. dead,'' said John Casesa, managing partner of the auto consulting firm Casesa Shapiro Group in New York. ''The trend away from these vehicles is irreversible.''
 The moves by G.M. underscore the radical transformation of the automotive landscape in recent months.
 Where large S.U.V.'s like the Chevrolet Tahoe and Ford Expedition ruled the road a few years ago, sales of those vehicles and others like them are plummeting under pressure from high fuel costs.
 At the same time, small cars and crossovers -- car-based all-wheel-drive vehicles that use less gas than S.U.V.'s -- are flying out of dealerships, with the Honda Civic and Toyota Corolla ranking as the two top-selling vehicles in the United States in May.
 G.M. unveiled its latest restructuring on the same day that it reported that its United States sales plunged 30 percent in May.
 But the day of reckoning for the full-size S.U.V. and its 14-miles-per-gallon fuel consumption has been coming for some time.
 ''At the peak in 2002, G.M. sold 600,000 full-size S.U.V.'s, but they're on pace this year to sell less than 250,000 of them,'' said David Healy, an analyst with Burnham Securities. ''And the nails in the coffin are getting screwed down a little tighter.''
 The production cuts will idle an estimated 8,000 workers at the plants in Janesville, Wis.; Moraine, Ohio; Oshawa, Ontario; and Toluca, Mexico. G.M. declined to provide details about what would happen to the workers affected.
 Mr. Wagoner called the shutdowns ''difficult'' decisions and said it was unlikely any of the plants would receive new products to stay open.
 ''These moves are all in response to the rapid rise in oil prices and the resulting changes in the U.S.,'' he said.
 G.M. hopes to counter the drop in S.U.V. and truck sales by increasing car production and accelerating the development of more fuel-efficient models.
 The automaker will add third shifts in September at plants in Michigan and Ohio that make midsize sedans and compact models.
 G.M.'s board also approved production of two new small cars and a new four-cylinder, 1.4-liter engine, and gave the green light for production of the Chevrolet Volt by 2010.
 The Volt, which will be powered by batteries augmented by a small gasoline engine, is the centerpiece of G.M.'s push to develop alternative-fuel vehicles.
 ''The Chevy Volt is a go,'' Mr. Wagoner said. ''We believe this is the biggest step in our industry's move away from our historic, virtually complete reliance on petroleum to power vehicles.''
 Over all, G.M. is cutting 500,000 vehicles out of its North American production capacity.
 By reducing capacity to 3.7 million vehicles a year from the current 4.2 million, the automaker expects to save $1 billion on top of a target of reducing costs by $5 billion by 2011.
 But even with the cuts, Mr. Wagoner declined to predict when G.M., which lost $3.3 billion in the first quarter this year, will become profitable in North America.
 On Wall Street, G.M.'s stock rose modestly, closing at $17.58, up 14 cents.
 Full-size S.U.V.'s and pickups have long been a major source of profits for G.M. and its domestic rivals, Ford and Chrysler.
 ''These are our most profitable vehicles, particularly the full-sized utes,'' said Frederick A. Henderson, G.M.'s president. ''We need to be able to produce more profitability from our passenger cars because we'll be under pressure in terms of revenue.''
 The plant shutdowns were announced days after G.M. said 19,000 of its hourly workers -- a quarter of a unionized work force that already has been drastically reduced -- had accepted buyouts or early retirement packages.
 There was no immediate comment from the United Automobile Workers union about the factory closures. But the president of the Canadian Auto Workers, Basil Hargrove, strongly criticized Mr. Wagoner and his management team for shutting the Ontario plant less than a month after G.M. and the C.A.W. agreed to a new contract.
 ''This is a panic decision that really raises a question in my mind for the first time about the leadership at the top of the house for G.M.,'' Mr. Hargrove said at a news conference Tuesday in Toronto.
 Panic or not, G.M. clearly is altering its strategy on the fly in the face of increasingly tough economic conditions.
 Industry analysts expect overall vehicle sales in the United States to fall below 15 million this year, the lowest point in more than a decade and far below the peak of 17.4 million in 2000. As recently as 2005, sales hit 17 million.
 ''This is tough stuff,'' Mr. Wagoner said. ''This market has radically changed.''
 The decision to conduct a ''strategic review'' of the Hummer brand underscored the painful reality G.M. is facing.
 Once considered a brand with global potential, the monster-sized Hummer has become a symbol of the decline of the large, gas-guzzling S.U.V.
 Mr. Wagoner said the review of the brand could result in ''a partial or complete sale'' of Hummer.
 That is a far cry from the ambitious goals that G.M. had for Hummer when it acquired rights to the brand nearly a decade ago.
 When he joined G.M. in 2001, Vice Chairman Robert A. Lutz gushed over the potential for the rugged, military-styled Hummers: ''I don't think the world realizes how big that can get.''
 When the brand's sales peaked at 71,000 vehicles in 2006, Mr. Lutz was calling for Hummer to double its two-S.U.V. lineup.
 But so far this year, Hummer sales have fallen 36 percent to 14,000 vehicles.
 Advertised heavily as the epitome of the ''go anywhere, do anything'' S.U.V., the Hummer has been a favorite target of environmentalist criticism of Detroit.
 ''It has come to represent all that is bad about gigantic S.U.V.'s,'' said Daniel Becker, a consultant to environmental groups in Washington. ''It's a shame it's taken G.M. so long to face the reality that people don't want this thing anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hundreds of sport utility vehicles fill a lot next to a General Motors plant in Moraine, Ohio, that the company plans to close by summer 2010 as part of its shift away from large automobiles.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AL BEHRMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C6) CHART: A Quick Shift From Trucks to Cars: This year, consumers have rapidly switched their preference toward cars when choosing a new vehicle.(Source: Motorintelligence.com) Chart shows bar graph for percentages of new vehicles sold. (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); TRENDS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (55%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



102 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Chief Cleric Says Iran Doesn't Seek Nuclear Arms

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN 

 BODY:
Iran's supreme religious leader vowed Tuesday that his country would pursue a peaceful atomic energy program and had no interest in nuclear weapons, calling them expensive and useless. 
 The remarks by the leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, did not represent any change in Iran's official position, but were unusual because he said them publicly, just a few days before the major world powers were expected to offer Iran new incentives to suspend its uranium enrichment program.
 Ayatollah Khamenei's remarks seemed clearly aimed at those powers, including the United States, that contend that Iran covets nuclear weapons and may secretly be trying to develop the technology to build them. Mr. Khamenei called those accusations false, saying they were meant to deprive Iran of its legitimate right to nuclear power.
 ''The Iranian nation is not seeking nuclear weapons,'' the ayatollah said at an event commemorating the 19th anniversary of the death of the founder of the 1979 Islamic Revolution, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.
 ''We are seeking nuclear energy for peaceful purposes for daily use, and we will continue this path to the envy of our enemies,'' he said.
 ''You know the Iranian nation is in principle and on religious grounds against the nuclear weapon. Nuclear weapons only incur high costs and have no use. They do not bring power to a nation,'' he said.
 The ayatollah spoke a day after the State Department said it expected Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief, to travel to Iran in mid-June to offer a package of new inducements if it abandoned uranium enrichment, which can be used to produce both electric power and nuclear weapons.
 Iran has consistently rejected demands that it stop enriching uranium, despite economic sanctions imposed by the United Nations Security Council. 
 Ayatollah Khamenei's speech also appeared to be a response to comments by the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mohamed ElBaradei, who said Monday in an unusually tough speech that Iran was holding back information needed to clarify intelligence reports that it had researched nuclear bombs in secret. The agency is the United Nations' nuclear monitor.
 In what appeared to be a warning, the ayatollah said that terrorists could one day acquire nuclear bombs, leading to insecurity around the world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (96%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); RELIGION (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%); TERRORISM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (90%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (59%); JAVIER SOLANA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN (74%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



103 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Today in Business

 BODY:
THINKING SMALLER With gas near $4 a gallon, more people are deciding that the benefits of owning big vehicles are not worth the costs. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. 
 General Motors announced drastic cuts in the production of sport utility vehicles and pickups and stepped up plans for smaller cars and engines. [C1.] 
 SEEKING OUSTER Carl C. Icahn, the billionaire investor, is seeking the removal of Jerry Yang, the chief executive of Yahoo, saying he mismanaged the negotiations with Microsoft. [C1.]
 FIGHTING A SHORT-SELLER Lehman Brothers is battling with a hedge fund manager who is betting that the investment bank's shares will fall. [C1.]
 REFORM EXPECTED Three large credit ratings companies are close to a settlement with the New York State attorney general over their handling of risky mortgage securities.[C1.]
 FOREIGN EXECUTIVES WANTED As pressure grows on European businesses to go global, they are seeing the advantage in hiring executives who know international business. [C1.]
 BUILDER POSTS A LOSS Toll Brothers, the builder of luxury homes, reported a quarterly loss, but the results were better than analysts had expected. [C2.]
 MSN BEEFS UP MSN, the Microsoft Web portal, is betting that two of Hollywood's most innovative executives, Gail Berman, left, and Lloyd Braun, can help the Web site become competitive in advertiser-supported entertainment on the Web. [C2.]
 A NEW GROOVE Cablevision is running a $15 million campaign to portray Fuse as a source of mainstream music. Advertising. [C4.]
 NO MORE CUTS The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said the economy should improve in the second half and suggested that further interest rate cuts were unlikely. [C4.]
 MOVING FORWARD Advanced Micro Devices will sell notebook chips with strong graphics and video capabilities. [C4.]
 FALLING SALES General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler combined for a record-low market share of 44.4 percent in May and were outsold for the first time ever by their Asian rivals. [C6.]
 FIGHTING RIVALS To stave off competitors seeking to copy its formula for success, Pure Digital will begin selling a slender new model of its Flip Camcorder. [C7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); MARKET SHARE (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (68%); SEARCH ENGINES (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (54%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); AMD (NYSE) (53%); AMD (FRA) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (90%); BEN BERNANKE (57%); JERRY YANG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



104 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BARACK OBAMA; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: In Their Own Words

 BODY:
Tuesday night in St. Paul, as transcribed by The New York Times. A full transcript: nytimes.com/politics. 
 ''Sixteen months have passed since we first stood together on the steps of the Old State Capitol in Springfield, Ill. Thousands of miles have been traveled. Millions of voices have been heard. And because of what you said -- because you decided that change must come to Washington; because you believed that this year must be different than all the rest; because you chose to listen not to your doubts or your fears but to your greatest hopes and highest aspirations, tonight we mark the end of one historic journey with the beginning of another -- a journey that will bring a new and better day to America. 
 Because of you tonight, I can stand before you and say that I will be the Democratic nominee for President of the United States. ...
 While John McCain can legitimately tout moments of independence from his party in the past, such independence has not been the hallmark of his presidential campaign.
 It's not change when John McCain decided to stand with George Bush 95 percent of the time, as he did in the Senate last year. It's not change when he offers four more years of Bush economic policies that have failed to create well-paying jobs, or insure our workers, or help Americans afford the skyrocketing cost of college -- policies that have lowered the real incomes of the average American family, widened the gap between Wall Street and Main Street, and left our children with a mountain of debt.
 And it's not change when he promises to continue a policy in Iraq that asks everything of our brave men and women in uniform and nothing of Iraqi politicians -- a policy where all we look for are reasons to stay in Iraq, while we spend billions of dollars a month on a war that isn't making the American people any safer.
 So I'll say this -- there are many words to describe John McCain's attempt to pass off his embrace of George Bush's policies as bipartisan and new. But change is not one of them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); FAMILY (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



105 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: In Hiring, Europeans Go Global

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
When Jose Luis Duran came from Spain in 1994 to work at Carrefour, the big French retailer, he spoke no French. ''It was total immersion from the first day,'' he said. ''It was shocking, but you learn fast.''
 A decade later, Carrefour named Mr. Duran, then 41, chief executive. He was the first foreigner to hold that title. 
 More than a half-century after the first steps toward European economic union, European companies are breaking down the glass ceiling that reserved their top spots for a local. As pressure grows on European businesses to go global, they are seeing the advantage in hiring executives who know the rough and tumble of international business, and who have experience with integrating employees and operations across different cultures.
 And as capital itself becomes global, European companies increasingly thirsty for private capital are recruiting managers for their performance instead of their nationality, a signal to investors that a company means business. 
 Mr. Duran's remarkable rise at Carrefour is by no means an isolated case. In 2005, Unilever named a Frenchman to run the huge English-Dutch multinational, its first chief executive to be neither English nor Dutch. One year earlier, the Italian Gucci Group, which is controlled by the French Pinault family, hired a Dutchman from Unilever as chief executive.
 In Europe's largest economies, the national stock exchange is looking more international. In Britain, for example, 34 of the 100 companies on the FTSE 100 index now have chief executives who are not British. While a decade ago, the list would have included many executives from English-speaking nations like the United States, Australia or Ireland, now in addition to 15 Americans, there are three Frenchmen, a Swede, a Spaniard, an Indian and a Kazak -- Yong Keu Cha, the 50-year-old chief executive of Kazakhmys, a mining company. 
 In France, seven of the 40 companies on the CAC 40 index have non-French chief executives, compared with one a decade ago; in Germany, five of the 30 DAX index companies are run by foreigners, compared with none 10 years ago. 
 Experts say such diversification has only just begun. Indeed, nationals still run most European companies. In Italy, for instance, foreigners run only two of 40 companies on the MIB index, and one, Sergio Marchionne of Fiat, has dual Canadian and Italian citizenship. 
 But even in the last redoubts, the days of jingoistic capitalism are limited. ''Smart international businesses and boards will be saying, 'Find the best person for the job,' '' said Luke Meynell, director of boardroom searches at Russell Reynolds, a search firm in London. 
 One reason for the shift is the entry of nonnationals into executive jobs below the chief executive. Unilever's six-member executive board, the likely source for the next chief executive, now consists of a Frenchman, two Indians, a South African and two Americans, but no one who is English or Dutch. At Carrefour, the five-member executive board consists of two Spaniards in addition to Mr. Duran. 
 The trend is not entirely new. In 1988, L'Oreal, the French cosmetics company, chose Lindsay Owen-Jones, a Welshman, as chairman and chief executive. But Mr. Owen-Jones, then 42, was hardly distinguishable from a Frenchman: he had a degree from a French business school, spoke fluent French and had an Italian wife, which softened his British image.
 The hunt for cross-cultural managers comes at a crucial time. As traditional markets in Europe and the United states grow more slowly, European companies are facing increased competition from globalization. Companies have responded aggressively, and global experience is often valued above cost-cutting skill. 
 ''I call it the tropicalization of Carrefour,'' said Mr. Duran, the son of a Spanish father and German mother who grew up in Madrid speaking Spanish and German. ''It says it's an open group, no taking anything for granted.''
 In the United States, American companies have hired a rash of foreign-born chief executives in recent years. But the bigger cultural barriers can actually be within Europe, where language, as well as work customs, vary by country. 
 ''Upper-level management still tends to be linked to the general cultural identity of the firms,'' said Junko Takagi, an expert on management and diversity at the Essec business school outside Paris. ''For the time being, few firms do not have a national identity attached to them.''
 Still, a view of the globe as their apple is certainly something Dutch executives carry in their portfolio. Of the 26 years that Robert Polet, 52, a Dutchman and the chief executive of the Gucci Group, spent at Unilever, most were spent far from headquarters, in Germany, Malaysia, Belgium and elsewhere.
 So in 2004, when the Pinault family acquired Gucci for $8 billion and set out to find a chief executive, they tapped Mr. Polet. Gucci had Italian roots, a French owner, corporate headquarters in London and markets across the globe. ''The culture gap I found when I came,'' Mr. Polet said, ''was distinctly Anglo-Saxon, influenced by my predecessor.'' That was Domenico De Sole, who turned around Gucci in the 1990s and whose education and corporate experience were American. Mr. Polet flew to Mr. De Sole's home in South Carolina for two days to ''understand his personality,'' he said.
 ''I found that Gucci was neither French, nor Italian, nor American, but it was so in a mix of natural and historical tensions that it was probably good to be a Dutchman,'' Mr. Polet said, with a laugh. ''That's a bit what the Dutch people do.''
 Groomed in an international world, having studied in the Netherlands and in Oregon, he liked that Gucci's geographical divisions were run by locals -- the Asia Pacific region by a Chinese, Japan by a Japanese and the United States by an American. 
 Some analysts say European companies are increasingly willing to hire foreigners because of the increasingly international makeup of boards, itself a result of the globalization of capital. ''This is tying into the internationalization of nonexecutives in companies,'' said Harm van Esch, a specialist in nonexecutive board searches at Russell Reynolds in Amsterdam. In the Netherlands, roughly half of all corporate board members are no longer Dutch.
 Sometimes, of course, the culture fights back. Last year, the Indian steel group Mittal acquired the European steel maker Arcelor, and it announced it would eliminate about half the 1,100 jobs at an Arcelor mill in Gandrange, in eastern France. 
 After Indian management confirmed the cuts, French workers smashed their bosses' offices and threw furniture and files out windows. ''If a European company decided on layoffs in India, I doubt there would be any such reaction,'' said Jacob Cohen, professor of business law at the Singapore campus of the Insead business school.
 Clearly the chances of a successful national transplant are greater if the executive is a longtime company employee, like Mr. Owen-Jones. That was also the case at Unilever, known for brands like Lipton tea and Knorr soups, when it named Patrick Cescau, a Frenchman, to be its chief executive.
 Unilever was struggling in the early years of this decade and decided to overhaul its executive structure. Reflecting its binational character, Unilever had two chief executives and two headquarters, in Rotterdam and London. Under the new plan Mr. Cescau would be the sole chief executive, the first in Unilever's 78-year history to be neither Dutch nor English. 
 Mr. Cescau, 59, began his Unilever career in France, but his first culture shock, despite his marriage to a German, came in Germany. ''The German business was very different, very formal,'' he said. ''Hierarchy was extraordinarily important, it was very organized, disciplined, yet a very successful company. And there was no word of English, you had to speak German.'' 
 In France, he said, ''I could go to the chairman, open his door, sit down; in Germany, you had to write a short letter with what you wanted to do, and pass it to the boss.'' 
 Now, he says, German employees work without ties and address their chairman, Henning Rehder, simply as ''Henning.''
 Asked where he would settle after retirement, he smiled and said he had bought a retirement home in the south of France.
 ''The reason I wanted a house in France,'' he said, ''was not about reason, but about emotion, roots.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Polet, a Dutchman, and chief of the Gucci Group.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GIUSEPPE ARESU/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Lindsay Owen-Jones, who is from Wales, heads L'Oreal.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEAN-CLAUDE COUTAUSSE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); WOMEN (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%)

COMPANY: CARREFOUR SA (92%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (85%); KAZAKHMYS PLC (53%)

TICKER: CRR (BIT) (92%); CA (PAR) (92%); UNIA (AMS) (85%); UNA (BIT) (85%); UNA (AMS) (85%); UN (NYSE) (85%); ULVR (LSE) (85%); UL (NYSE) (85%); KAZ (LSE) (53%); 0847 (HKSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (92%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (92%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (92%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (85%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (53%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (53%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (53%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (53%)

PERSON: JOSE LUIS DURAN (90%); SERGIO MARCHIONNE (56%); LINDSAY OWEN-JONES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%) EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (86%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WALES (79%); GERMANY (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008



106 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; IXTAPA JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Sharks Strike Panic Along Mexico's Pacific Coast

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: IXTAPA, Mexico 

 BODY:
''Tiburon!'' a little boy cried out, jumping up and down in the sand with his finger outstretched toward the ocean. Everyone around followed the youngster's panicky gaze out past the waves and into the Pacific, where they spotted not a shark's fin but a buoy.
 ''Everybody's seeing sharks these days,'' said the security man at one of the giant resort hotels that has flown a black flag over its lifeguard tower in recent days, warning swimmers to beware. 
 Since the end of April, the beaches north of here have experienced three separate shark attacks, two of them fatal, a rarity along this coastline. Needless to say, there are some jitters these days about whether the shark or sharks responsible might strike again.
 An Ixtapa lifeguard, sitting atop a tower, admitted that every shout or scream he hears these days causes his heart to race. There is a fair amount of shrieking that occurs at every beach, whether caused by a hard-fought point in beach volleyball, a wave splashing the face of a child or maybe someone stepping down too hard on a sharp-edged shell. Now, though, any raised voice has him thinking: someone else has been bitten.
 The first victim, Adrian Ruiz, 24, of San Francisco, arrived at a hotel on the beach in Troncones in the early evening of April 28 and immediately headed for the waves. Not too long afterward people on shore saw blood in the water.
 ''I ran to the water and grabbed him,'' said Osman Altamirano, 26, who works at a beachfront hotel. ''Half his leg was gone. He was shaking. We put him in the back of a pickup but didn't get him to the hospital in time.''
 Then, on May 23, a shark mauled a surfer, Osvaldo Mata Valdovinos, 21, at Pantla beach. He also bled to death.
 The following day, at Playa Linda, Bruce Grimes, 49, a Florida native who owns a local surf shop, had his own encounter with a shark he estimated to be about six feet long.
 ''I was sitting on my board when all of a sudden I got raised out of the water,'' he said. ''At first I thought it was a manatee, but then it came back and I saw it was a shark. He tried to knock me off my board and then he took a bite out of me.''
 Bleeding from a deep wound in his hand and forearm, Mr. Grimes made it to shore and managed to drive himself to a local hospital, where doctors sewed him up with more than 100 stitches.
 The resort towns of Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo, which prop up the economy of Guerrero State, have been scrambling to respond.
 After the first attack, officials eased normally tight restrictions on shark fishing and sent an armada of fishermen out into the ocean to strike back. A number of sharks were brought back and hung as trophies, an effort to send a signal that the crisis was under control. 
 But that response -- not unlike the one employed on Amity Island in the movie ''Jaws'' -- served mainly to rile environmental groups already concerned by the dwindling shark population along Mexico's coast. Demonstrations were organized calling for an end to the killing.
 Even the authorities were not sure how best to respond to the spate of attacks. ''We don't have much experience with this,'' acknowledged Jose Leonardo Castillo-Geniz, a shark researcher at Mexico's Regional Center for Fisheries Research in Ensenada.
 After the last two attacks, they called in George Burgess, a shark expert at the University of Florida, who promptly declared that the quest to hunt down killer sharks was fruitless. ''The chances of finding the sharks that actually did the biting is practically nil,'' he said.
 On top of that, he said, stringing the animals up, as the authorities here did, only scares away more tourists, just as the bloody after-attack photographs that local newspapers have been printing do.
 Mr. Burgess, who maintains a computer database of shark attacks worldwide, instead recommended a few practical measures, including more lifeguards, faster emergency response and signs warning people of the danger. 
 Mexican authorities have signed on to his recommendations. They have also dispatched the navy to patrol the coastline and have sent biologists out to tag hundreds of sharks in an effort to establish why they are coming so close to the shore.
 Mr. Burgess said the answer might have something to do with La Nina conditions affecting the Pacific this year, bringing the cool waters that sharks prefer closer to the coastline than normal. The last string of shark attacks in the area, four near Acapulco, took place in the early 1970s, also during La Nina conditions, he said.
 That may be good news for local tourism officials, because La Nina conditions rarely last more than a year and a half, and then disappear for an average of about five years before reappearing. Mr. Burgess suggested that anyone who entered the water anywhere should do so with a bit of trepidation.
 ''We're still working on the precise size of the sharks by studying the bites,'' said Mr. Burgess, who says it could take a year to truly understand the recent spate of attacks. ''But suffice it to say that in all three cases, the attacking shark was large.''
 He added: ''We need to remember that humans are visitors to the wilderness when we enter the sea. It's not like going into a pool. Whether it's the sea or the jungle, there are risks.''
 Yet, for many the risks are still worth taking.
 At Troncones beach, Daniel Abraham, 16, of Michoacan State, arrived for a day of swimming and found a large warning sign stuck in the sand and displaying an ominous picture of a shark.
 ''Is it true that there was an attack here?'' he asked Sergio Flores, who works for Wild Coast, an environmental group, and happened to be around. Mr. Flores nodded.
 ''I suggest you get a cold beer and enjoy the sand,'' Mr. Flores said. ''Wet your feet if you want. Play volleyball. Enjoy yourself.''
 But Daniel was having none of that. Within minutes, he and a friend were chest deep in the ocean near the spot where one of the mauled surfers had been pulled out bleeding weeks before.
 In no time at all, there were shouts coming from the water, joyful ones though, and no signs of any shark.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After a shark attack in April off Troncones beach, left, officials eased limits on shark fishing and sent an armada of fishermen out to strike back in resort towns like Zihuatanejo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARC LACEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
WILD COAST)
 A shark bit Bruce Grimes, 49, an American who owns a local surf shop, at an Ixtapa beach. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDUARDO VERDUGO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAP: Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo bolster the Guerrero economy. Map of Ixtapa in Mexico. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); SURFING (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); RESORTS (77%); BITES & STINGS (77%); HOTEL STAFF (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



107 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Latino Immigrants Hit by Jobs Shortage

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
Latino immigrants were especially hard hit over the last year by the slump in the construction industry, reaching 7.5 percent unemployment in the first three months of 2008, according to a report released Wednesday by the Pew Hispanic Center. 
 The loss of construction jobs by immigrants from Latin America contributed to a spike in unemployment among all Latino workers to 6.5 percent, compared with 4.7 percent unemployment for non-Latino workers, the report found. As recently as late 2006, Latino workers had achieved their historic low unemployment rate of 4.9 percent, based mainly on a job boom among immigrants, the report said.
 ''To put it bluntly, Hispanics had a rough time in the labor market in 2007,'' said Rakesh Kochhar, the author of the report who is associate director for research at the Pew center, a nonpartisan organization in Washington.
 Job loss was particularly severe for Mexican immigrants, whose unemployment rate rose to 8.4 percent from 5.5 percent in 2007, the report found. Of 247,000 jobs lost by Latino workers in the construction industry in 2007, workers born in Mexico lost 152,000 jobs, or about 60 percent.
 Latino workers make up about 14 percent of the United States labor force, and about 52 percent of them are immigrants. The Pew report, which is based on recent data from the census and the Bureau of Labor Statistics, does not distinguish between legal and illegal immigrants.
 The banking credit crisis and a drop in home prices led to an abrupt slowdown in new home building last year. Illegal immigrant workers have been concentrated in construction, accounting for 12 percent of employment in that industry, according to a Pew study in 2006. Mexicans account for about 55 percent of more than 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States, the Pew center has estimated.
 Despite the heavy impact of the economic downturn on Latino immigrants, they did not appear to be giving up on finding jobs or leaving the United States, according to the report. Labor force participation among Latino immigrant workers has remained more or less constant since 2003, Mr. Kochhar said.
 ''For now they continue to be here and they continue to look actively for work,'' he said.
 But the report found signs that fewer Latino immigrants are coming to the United States. In 2007, the population of Latino immigrants ages 16 and older increased by 462,000, about the same as in 2006. Those figures were in contrast to 2005, when the number of Latino immigrant workers increased by 784,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (92%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (69%); HOME PRICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



108 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE FOOD CHAIN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Food Is Gold, and Investors Pour Billions Into Farming

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
Huge investment funds have already poured hundreds of billions of dollars into booming financial markets for commodities like wheat, corn and soybeans.
 But a few big private investors are starting to make bolder and longer-term bets that the world's need for food will greatly increase -- by buying farmland, fertilizer, grain elevators and shipping equipment.
 One has bought several ethanol plants, Canadian farmland and enough storage space in the Midwest to hold millions of bushels of grain. 
 Another is buying more than five dozen grain elevators, nearly that many fertilizer distribution outlets and a fleet of barges and ships. 
 And three institutional investors, including the giant BlackRock fund group in New York, are separately planning to invest hundreds of millions of dollars in agriculture, chiefly farmland, from sub-Saharan Africa to the English countryside.
 ''It's going on big time,'' said Brad Cole, president of Cole Partners Asset Management in Chicago, which runs a fund of hedge funds focused on natural resources. ''There is considerable interest in what we call 'owning structure' -- like United States farmland, Argentine farmland, English farmland -- wherever the profit picture is improving.''
 These new bets by big investors could bolster food production at a time when the world needs more of it.
 The investors plan to consolidate small plots of land into more productive large ones, to introduce new technology and to provide capital to modernize and maintain grain elevators and fertilizer supply depots. 
 But the long-term implications are less clear. Some traditional players in the farm economy, and others who study and shape agriculture policy, say they are concerned these newcomers will focus on profits above all else, and not share the industry's commitment to farming through good times and bad.
 ''Farmland can be a bubble just like Florida real estate,'' said Jeffrey Hainline, president of Advance Trading, a 28-year-old commodity brokerage firm and consulting service in Bloomington, Ill. ''The cycle of getting in and out would be very volatile and disruptive.''
 By owning land and other parts of the agricultural business, these new investors are freed from rules aimed at curbing the number of speculative bets that they and other financial investors can make in commodity markets. ''I just wonder if they need some sheep's clothing to put on,'' Mr. Hainline said.
 Mark Lapolla, an adviser to institutional investors, is also a bit wary of the potential disruption this new money could cause. ''It is important to ask whether these financial investors want to actually operate the means of production -- or simply want to have a direct link into the physical supply of commodities and thereby reduce the risk of their speculation,'' he said.
 Grain elevators, especially, could give these investors new ways to make money, because they can buy or sell the actual bushels of corn or soybeans, rather than buying and selling financial derivatives that are linked to those commodities. 
 When crop prices are climbing, holding inventory for future sale can yield higher profits than selling to meet current demand, for example. Or if prices diverge in different parts of the world, inventory can be shipped to the more profitable market.
 ''It's a huge disadvantage to not be able to trade the physical commodity,'' said Andrew J. Redleaf, founder of Whitebox Advisors, a hedge fund management firm in Minneapolis. 
 Mr. Redleaf bought several large grain elevator complexes from ConAgra and Cargill last year for a long-term stake in what he sees as a high-growth business. The elevators can store 36 million bushels of grain.
 ''We discovered that our lease customers, major food company types, are really happy to see us, because they are apt to see Cargill and ConAgra as competitors,'' he said.
 The executives making such bets say that fears about their new role are unfounded, and that their investments will be a plus for farming and, ultimately, for consumers. 
 ''The world is asking for more food, more energy. You see a huge demand,'' said Axel Hinsch, chief executive of Calyx Agro, a division of the giant Louis Dreyfus Commodities, which is buying tens of thousands of acres of cropland in Brazil with the backing of big institutional investors, including AIG Investments.
 ''What this new investment will buy is more technology,'' Mr. Hinsch said. ''We will be helping to accelerate the development of infrastructure, and the consumer will benefit because there will be more supply.''
 Financial investors also can provide grain elevator operators the money they need to weather today's more volatile commodity markets. When wild swings in prices become common, as they are now, elevator operators have to put up more cash to lock in future prices. John Duryea, co-portfolio manager of the Ospraie Special Opportunity Fund, is buying 66 grain elevators with a total capacity of 110 million bushels from ConAgra for $2.1 billion. The deal, expected to close by the end of June, also will give Ospraie a stake in 57 fertilizer distribution centers and the barges and ships necessary to keep them supplied with low-cost imports.
 Maintaining these essential services ''helps bring costs down to the farmers,'' Mr. Duryea said. ''That has to help mitigate the price increases for crops.''
 Mr. Duryea of the Ospraie fund dismissed the idea that financial investors, with obligations to suppliers and customers of their elevators and fertilizer services, would put their thumb on the supply-demand scale by holding back inventory to move prices artificially. 
 ''It is not in our best interests for anyone to be negatively affected by what we do,'' he said.
 Perhaps the most ambitious plans are those of Susan Payne, founder and chief executive of Emergent Asset Management, based near London. 
 Emergent is raising $450 million to $750 million to invest in farmland in sub-Saharan Africa, where it plans to consolidate small plots into more productive holdings and introduce better equipment. Emergent also plans to provide clinics and schools for local labor. 
 One crop and a source of fuel for farming operations will be jatropha, an oil-seed plant useful for biofuels that is grown in sandy soil unsuitable for food production, Ms. Payne said.
 ''We are getting strong response from institutional investors -- pensions, insurance companies, endowments, some sovereign wealth funds,'' she said.
 The fund chose Africa because ''land values are very, very inexpensive, compared to other agriculture-based economies,'' she said. ''Its microclimates are enticing, allowing a range of different crops. There's accessible labor. And there's good logistics -- wide open roads, good truck transport, sea transport.''
 The Emergent fund is one of a growing roster of farmland investment funds based in Britain.
 Last October, the London branch of BlackRock introduced the BlackRock Agriculture Fund, aiming to raise $200 million to invest in fertilizer production, timberland and biofuels. The fund currently stands at more than $450 million.
 Braemar Group, near Manchester, is investing exclusively in Britain. ''Britain is a nice, stable northwestern European economy with the same climate and quality of soil as northwestern Europe,'' said Marc Duschenes, Braemar's chief executive. ''But our land is at a 50 percent discount to Ireland and Denmark. We just haven't caught up yet.''
 Europe, like the United States, is facing mandated increases in biofuel production, he said, and cropland near new ethanol facilities in the northeast of England will be the first source of supply. ''No one is going to put a ton of grain on a boat in Latin America and ship it to the northeast of England to turn it into bioethanol,'' he said.
 For Gary R. Blumenthal, chief executive of World Perspectives, an agriculture consulting firm in Washington, the new investments by big financial players, if sustained, could be just what global agriculture needs -- ''where you can bring small, fragmented pieces together to boost the production side of agriculture.''
 He added: ''Investment funds are seeing that this consolidation brings value to them. But I'm saying this brings value to everyone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A cattle farm in South Africa is among the holdings of Emergent Asset Management. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMERGENT ASSET MANAGEMENT)
 Andrew J. Redleaf, head of the hedge fund Whitebox Advisors, bought several grain elevators from ConAgra and Cargill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN GARVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); FERTILIZERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (78%); CORN MARKETS (78%); WHEAT MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); BIOFUELS (73%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (71%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); ETHANOL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BLOOMINGTON, IL, USA (70%) MIDWEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (76%); ENGLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



109 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: Lights, Camera, Generous Tax Credit

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN

 BODY:
Angela Peri was shepherding the more than 200 extras she had sent to the set of a new movie, ''Paul Blart: Mall Cop,'' being filmed in an upscale mall near Boston. So Ms. Peri, who runs a small casting agency, Boston Casting, hardly had a moment to talk about the impact of the new tax credits going to filmmakers in Massachusetts. 
 ''It's nuts,'' she said. After nearly two decades of eking out a living with industrial films, commercials and the rare feature film, her business has doubled in the last year. ''We're working 12 to 15 hour days.'' 
 Since last July, when Gov. Deval L. Patrick signed into law a 25 percent film tax credit, a wave of major film projects has landed in Massachusetts. The legislation was part of a fierce competition among a growing number of states to entice Hollywood to make films within their borders. 
 In April, both New York and Michigan raised the ante with generous rebate plans, with Michigan raising its tax credit to 42 percent. And in May, California's governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, urged legislators in his state to enhance its tax credit in hopes of keeping Hollywood in Hollywood. Nearly all 50 states have instituted film tax credits in recent years.
 Still, the tax credits are not universally supported. A few Massachusetts legislators have recently criticized them, arguing that taxpayers are being fooled by the glamour and that much of the money generated by the films will end up leaving the state in the pockets of wealthy directors and movie stars.
 Advocates of the tax credits disagree, of course. They insist that the economic payoff for welcoming big feature films with multimillion dollar budgets is huge, particularly for the small businesses in the places where the movies are being made. 
 Massachusetts, with its aggressive push to lure film projects, is already seeing a big payback. According to Nick Paleologos, executive director of the Massachusetts Film Office in Boston, the tax credit has breathed life into a once-moribund local industry. 
 Since 2006, when a more limited tax credit was first offered, Massachusetts has realized $545 million in direct new film-based revenue compared with just $6 million the year before the tax credit was approved, according to the state's Department of Revenue.
 ''In January and February last year, hotels in Boston were empty,'' Mr. Paleologos said. ''This year they were full. The movie company comes in and takes 200 rooms for two months. The jobs connected to those rooms has a ripple effect. Instead of collecting unemployment, workers are collecting paychecks and paying state income taxes. They go out and spend that money and other businesses make money and pay more taxes.''
 In 2005, for example, just one feature film was made in the state and only two the next year. In 2007, with the new tax credit, the number jumped to eight, and this year, there are already seven being made before July with five in the wings. 
 Since January, multiple productions were shooting simultaneously in and around the Boston area. Besides ''Paul Blart: Mall Cop,'' starring the comic actor Kevin James, Martin Scorsese was directing Leonardo DiCaprio in ''Ashecliffe''; Ricky Gervais, the British comic actor, was directing and starring in his first feature film, ''This Side of the Truth,'' on the streets of Lowell. Sandra Bullock was filming ''The Proposal'' in Rockport and Gloucester; and Matthew McConaughey was filming ''The Ghosts of Girlfriends Past'' in Boston. Because of the weak dollar, foreign filmmakers are also heading to Massachusetts to take advantage of what could amount to a 50 cent rebate on every dollar spent. 
 Hotels, restaurants and bars are reaping the economic rewards along with small businesses that provide film equipment, production crews, security, construction, catering, hairstyling, makeup and extras. The local film union has seen membership rise by nearly 50 percent and wages double as the film work pours in. The Massachusetts Department of Labor is sponsoring programs to refine the skills of trades people for film work because the demand for labor is so high. 
 ''We chose Massachusetts due to the rebate,'' said Lynda Obst, producer of ''This Side of the Truth.'' Ms. Obst said the tax credit will save the production more than $3 million, which is a huge advantage for a film with an $18 million budget. 
 The city of Lowell, 45 minutes northwest of Boston, has welcomed Mr. Gervais and his film crew with open arms. The former mill town and birthplace of Jack Kerouac is reaping an estimated $2 million from the production for the local economy. 
 Sean Harmon, owner of Harmon's Paint and Wallpaper, said he has done about $20,000 in business with the film production already. ''This is all found business,'' Mr. Harmon said. ''It's been a boon to the whole city.'' 
 With a large cast and crew descending on the city for more than two months of shooting, local restaurants, hotels, laundries, bars and other businesses are cashing in. ''All these small businesses are getting the traffic of 160 crew members with a per-diem to spend,'' Ms. Obst said. 
 Mr. Gervais, who created and starred in the original British version of ''The Office'' and later ''Extras,'' said he looked at nearly a dozen communities in New England before settling on Lowell. ''I do like the idea that this generates income for small businesses,'' he said. ''It's important to put something back. And we end up with an extra $3 million doing it here rather than New York or elsewhere.''
 In fact, it was a coalition of small business owners like Ms. Peri that persuaded the commonwealth to pass the aggressive tax credit. In late 2004, the group, lead by Joe Maiella, senior vice president of CrewStar, a small firm that offers payroll services and other crew-related services for film productions, made the case that Massachusetts was missing a lucrative opportunity. 
 With its pristine shoreline, diverse geographies, and historic cities and towns, the state had natural appeal. Tourism is a major economic driver, and a starring role in a feature film means millions of dollars worth of free advertising for the state. 
 ''Massachusetts was not even on the radar map in attracting this level of film production,'' Mr. Maiella said. ''We recognized that we had to coalesce the industry here to achieve a number of initiatives. We used models from other states, particularly Louisiana, to draft a bill that we knew would work.''
 The initial bill put a $7 million limit on the tax credit, which effectively kept big film projects away. Under the coalition's prodding, Governor Patrick removed the cap last July, increased the credit to 25 percent from 20 percent and offered motion picture producers flexibility in how they took advantage of the credit. ''Some states give you credit only below the line, with all sorts of restrictions and permutations,'' Mr. Paleologos said. ''Here, you know what your credit is worth.''
 The embarrassment of riches comes with a price. The local support businesses are scrambling to keep up with demand. Production crews are snapped up and kept busy for months, forcing new productions to import crews from Los Angeles or New York. 
 ''You have to be able to provide the infrastructure,'' Mr. Paleologos said. ''Studios want to hire locally and avoid paying airfare and hotels and per-diems for outside crews.'' 
 Thus far, Massachusetts has not lost a motion picture project for lack of support crews but it is in a race to keep pace. In addition to the state Labor Department's retraining efforts, the state is promoting education programs tied to the numerous local colleges and universities to train students in the film production business. Many actors and production people who left the state are returning. 
 In addition, three groups of private investors are seeking to spend up to $400 million to build state of the art soundstages in Plymouth, Weymouth or Boston that will not only create thousands of new jobs but make production in Massachusetts even more viable.
 With all that, those in the local film community are well aware of the heated battle to take some of the work away.
 ''It's about the money,'' Ms. Peri acknowledges. ''If they can get 42 percent rebate in Michigan, they'll just pack up and find a way to make Michigan look like Paris.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Angela Peri runs Boston Casting, a small casting agency that has experienced a business surge.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Ricky Gervais, a British actor, is directing his first film in Lowell, Mass., a former mill town northwest of Boston.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MOVIE FILMING (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIE CASTING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNORS (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); INCOME TAX (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); DEVAL PATRICK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



110 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ARTICLES ON THESE DEVELOPMENTS ARE AT NYTIMES.COM/BUSINESS.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: On The Web

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
UTILITIES AND TREES Almost five years after overgrown trees helped set off a blackout that left 50 million people in the dark, a reliability enforcement group said it had demanded $225,000 in civil penalties from two electric utilities that were still not trimming their trees properly. MATTHEW L. WALD 
 FOLGERS BRAND SOLD The J. M. Smucker Company, the maker of jams and jellies, announced Wednesday that it had agreed to buy the Folgers coffee business from Procter & Gamble for $2.95 billion in stock. ABHA BHATTARAI
 WALGREEN SETTLEMENT Walgreen, the drugstore chain operator, has agreed to pay $35 million to settle a federal whistle-blower lawsuit claiming that it overcharged Medicaid for prescriptions by switching from capsules to tablets, or vice versa, depending on which was more expensive. (AP)
 PLANT CLOSING PROTEST A blockade by the Canadian Auto Workers to protest the closure of a truck plant forced General Motors of Canada to close its head office. IAN AUSTEN
 ECONOMIC OUTLOOK Growth among the leading industrialized countries will slip this year and next, with activity flat in the United States, but a serious recession or inflation spiral should be avoided, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said. MATTHEW SALTMARSH
 WALL STREET
 RATING SURPRISE Stock of MBIA and Ambac fell after Moody's said it might reduce their AAA ratings. But why? The share prices already indicated that investors didn't think the ratings were deserved. 
 FLOYD NORRIS
 nytimes.com/norris
 AUTOMOBILES
 AMERICAN IN PARIS American Car City near Paris has sold American vehicles to French buyers for nearly a decade, and judging from the vehicles for sale, there is a thirst for big cars and pickup trucks. 
 NICK KURCZEWSKI
 nytimes.com/wheels
 HONDA IN THE SKY Last week, 19 skydivers jumped out of an airplane above the skies of Madrid to spell the word ''Honda'' live on British television. 
 AZADEH ENSHA
 nytimes.com/wheels
 SMALL BUSINESS
 HELP YOURSELF Self-help books for people who wouldn't be caught dead reading a self-help book. MARCI ALBOHER
 nytimes.com/shiftingcareers
 TECHNOLOGY
 BANDWIDTH WATCH Comcast will test new devices that will keep track of its users and assemble a blacklist of heavy users. Those on the blacklist will find that all of their online activities may slow down at peak times: from downloading movies to checking e-mail. SAUL HANSELL
 nytimes.com/bits
 GOOGLE EXPANSION Google signed a development agreement with NASA's Ames Research Center that includes a 42-acre lease that will allow it to expand the Googleplex by 50 percent. MIGUEL HELFT
 nytimes.com/bits
 MEDIA
 COUP FOR CABLE CNN drew a bigger audience than its broadcast rivals Tuesday as 4.73 million viewers tuned into its coverage of Barack Obama's victory speech. BRIAN STELTER
 nytimes.com/bits

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); PLANT CLOSINGS (73%); COFFEE & TEA (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RECESSION (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (71%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNERS (71%); MEDICAID (70%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (70%); LITIGATION (70%); SKYDIVING (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); INFLATION (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); BANDWIDTH (65%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (62%); COFFEE (56%); MEDICARE FRAUD (54%)

COMPANY: J M SMUCKER CO (72%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); GENERAL MOTORS OF CANADA LTD (56%); GOOGLE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

TICKER: SJM (NYSE) (72%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (72%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



111 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Philadelphia Will Try to Reduce Foreclosures

BYLINE: By JON HURDLE

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
Philadelphia announced a program on Wednesday to reduce the number of people who are forced from their homes because they cannot afford the payments on an adjustable-rate subprime mortgage. 
 The program, which officials called the first of its kind by a city, will require any property scheduled for sale by the local sheriff's office to be referred to officials who will negotiate with lenders in an effort to restructure the loan so that the borrower can keep the property.
 About 1,200 foreclosure sales scheduled for April and May have been delayed until July to give borrowers more time to negotiate. About 800 of those properties are owner-occupied, said Ian Phillips of the community advocacy group Acorn, which has helped to structure the program.
 Mayor Michael Nutter said the program, in which the city is investing $2 million to pay for legal services and people to counsel homeowners, is intended to solve payment problems before they reach foreclosure. Mr. Nutter urged people to contact the city before they receive a foreclosure letter from their lender.
 ''The issue of mortgage foreclosure is a crisis not only in Philadelphia but across the country,'' he said at a news conference.
 Foreclosure filings here rose 18 percent, to 6,237, in 2007 from the previous year and are expected to increase to about 8,500 this year, officials said. In 2006, 37 percent of all mortgage loans made in Philadelphia were sub-prime -- made to people with poor credit histories -- up from 20 percent in 2004.
 Nationally, thousands of home owners with subprime loans have been unable to pay higher mortgage payments after low introductory rates expired. 
 In the fourth quarter of 2007, the proportion of mortgage loans in foreclosure was 2.04 percent, a record, according to data from the Mortgage Bankers Association, which will release figures for the first quarter of 2008 on Thursday. 
 Adjustable-rate subprime loans for fourth-quarter 2007 accounted for 7 percent of all mortgages but 42 percent of those in foreclosure, the association said.
 Yajaira Cruz-Rivera, a mother of four from Northeast Philadelphia, said that in February 2005 she took out what she thought was a 30-year mortgage for $106,000 at a fixed rate of 7 percent to buy a single-family home. She expected her payments to be a manageable $925 a month. 
 Two weeks later, she said, she received a letter from the lender, informing her that the monthly payment had risen to $1,235 and the rate to 10.3 percent. By adjusting her budget, Ms. Cruz-Rivera said she could just afford the higher payment, but was unable to meet the lender's demand when it was raised again, to $1,671. It was then she discovered she had an adjustable-rate subprime loan. 
 After being threatened with foreclosure, Ms. Cruz-Rivera said she had renegotiated her payment to a fixed rate that carries a payment of $1,284 a month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



112 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Rose at a Pace That Exceeded Expectations

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
United States productivity grew at a slightly faster-than-expected rate in the first quarter, which may calm some of the Federal Reserve's worries over elevated inflation, the government reported Wednesday. 
 Productivity grew at a 2.6 percent annual rate during the first quarter on stronger output than was initially gauged.
 The Labor Department said in a statement that first-quarter output was revised higher to show a 0.7 percent gain at an annual rate, from the 0.4 percent previously reported. Worker hours shrank 1.8 percent as businesses cut back on labor inputs to shield profits amid a cooling United States economy. It was the third straight quarterly decline in hours.
 Economists polled by Reuters expected nonfarm productivity, which measures the hourly output per worker, to rise at a 2.5 percent pace. Compared with the first quarter of 2007, productivity was up 3.3 percent, the quickest pace in nearly four years.
 Both the service sector and private employment posted surprising gains for May in other reports released Wednesday.
 The service sector grew in May for a second consecutive month, according to a report by the Institute for Supply Management that exceeded Wall Street expectations but showed inflation in the sector hit its highest since September 2005.
 The reading came after a separate report showed the private sector added workers in May, defying expectations of a fall.
 ''We hav0e been getting stronger-than-expected data over the past couple of weeks, both from the manufacturing side and now from the services side,'' said Michael Pond, a strategist at Barclays Capital in New York. 
 reportreport

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



113 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Energy Lessons

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
Perhaps there's something to treadmill wisdom. We're all so narrow-band these days, using the vast resources of broadband to direct ourselves into a chosen news and ideological tunnel. Polarized pluralism defines us.
 But the scattershot offerings of the gym's lateral TV screens are an antidote to this tunnel vision. Seen through a film of sweat, they offer an unpredictable mix. Tailored news delivery they're not.
 Green energy is a big subject, of course, approached from all angles on countless screens. This raises the question of why nobody's hooked up all the treadmills to the grid. 
 What would be more irresistible in today's climate than losing pounds and powering the lights at once? New York City gyms alone could probably illuminate the entire eastern seaboard. We could celebrate our kilowatt footprint!
 Less big than green is the offer of mortgages, which used to dominate advertising on all those screens, until the credit crunch. It's disappeared faster than you can say ''slow-motion train wreck.''
 I confess I get mesmerized by all the prices on view during my workouts, not that I'd consider buying a pork-belly future or accumulating zinc. Actually, scratch that, I might. Meat and zinc are coming things.
 So are the BRIC countries. The acronym was coined five years back by Goldman Sachs for the emerging behemoths: Brazil, Russia, India and China. At the time, Brazil gave the acronym brio but didn't really belong. Its growth rates were anemic.
 But Goldman Sachs didn't get rich by getting it wrong -- even on mortgages. Sure enough, Brazil's BRIC status now looks rock-solid. Still, I got a shock when, gazing at CNBC as the incline on the treadmill's ''random'' program steepened brutally, I deciphered the words ''Brazil's Investing Thrill'' running across a screen.
 What?
 A little history is in order. I lived in Brazil in the 1980s when hyperinflation and debt defaults were the norm. People joked that the only way out was Galeao -- Rio de Janeiro's international airport.
 They liked to recall that the author Stefan Zweig, arriving in Brazil from Nazi Europe, coined the phrase ''Pais do Futuro'' (''Country of the Future'') -- and then killed himself. Charles de Gaulle's Brazil verdict seemed irrefutable: not a serious country.
 Now, fast-forward two decades. Foreign reserves hit $195 billion at the end of April. The real keeps rising against the dollar. Growth was 5.4 percent last year and won't be far short of that in 2008. The main Bovespa index in Sao Paolo is up about 13 percent in dollar terms this year. Standard & Poor's just boosted the country's sovereign debt to investment grade.
 Investment grade! U.S. pension funds like that. Brazil's investing thrill!
 Sorry about all the numbers. They're not the point. The point is countries really do get re-branded.
 Germany is a harmless place these days incapable of summoning a frisson. Russia has no ideology worth its name: it produces more tennis players than dialectics. As for Brazil, it's no longer defined by Pele, pistols and poverty, although there are still plenty of the latter two.
 As it happened, when I saw CNBC's paean to Brazil, I'd just returned from there, and it had become clear to me that oil, ethanol, land and water have produced a moment of Brazilian alchemy. Energy is the country's new brand.
 Some 35 years after the first oil shock, Brazil has moved from dependence on imports to self-sufficiency while the United States still relies on imported oil for more than half its needs. In the same period, Brazil has developed the world's most advanced ethanol program, based on sugar cane, while the U.S. corn ethanol program is essentially a wasteful folly of dubious carbon offset merits.
 You don't have to be suffering on a treadmill to get irked about this.
 Corn is food. Turning it into fuel, which is costly and energy-intensive, removes nourishment from the global food supply. Subsidizing corn-ethanol production in Iowa also diverts land from soy, another important staple.
 Sugar cane is not a staple. It's eight times more productive than corn. It grows year round. It must be processed fast, so CO2-spewing transport to distant ethanol plants is impossible (unlike for corn).
 Its leftover biomass can be used to produce electricity, enough, by some estimates, to provide a third of Brazil's power needs by 2030. Ethanol already accounts for about 50 percent of car fuel in Brazil. The vast extent of unused arable land -- only 16 percent is cultivated -- offers enormous scope. At $40 per barrel-of-oil-equivalent in Brazil, sugar-cane ethanol makes strategic and economic sense.
 Yet, the new U.S. farm bill extends the current steep ethanol import tariff -- 54 cents a gallon -- until 2010, to keep what Brazil makes out. The Iowa boondoggle marches on.
 This is nuts. Let the right ethanol in, think in broadband about energy -- and hook up those damn exercise bikes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BRIC COUNTRIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (87%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); AIRPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (54%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



114 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths IVERS, LENORE SOPHIA

 BODY:
 IVERS--Lenore Sophia, 54, of New York, NY died Friday May 30, 2008 in the St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital, New York City. Lenore was born in Gardner, on March 23, 1954, the daughter of the late Joseph and the late Frances E. (Tawter) Ivers. 
She leaves two brothers, Dr. James J. Ivers with wife Gail, daughters Melissa and Katelyn, and son Jonathan of West Boylston, MA, and Paul F. Ivers with wife Sarah and two sons, Joseph and Noah of Bedford, MA. She grew up in Gardner and attended Sacred Heart School grades 1-8, then graduating from Gardner High School as Valedictorian in 1972. Upon graduation, she earned a Bachelor degree in Economics from Wellesley College, followed by an M.B.A. from Columbia University in New York. Lenore has lived in New York City for over 32 years, building a career in the financial sector which included most recently the position of Joint Staff Pension Funds Senior Investment Officer at the United Nations, and was preceded by the positions Portfolio Manager and Director of Research at Prudential Management International, Supervisory Portfolio Administrator at Reich and Tang, and Performance Analyst at Sanford Berstein and Company. Her career not only fulfilled her professionally, but dovetailed with her love of travel and the arts, since it was centered in New York City and it involved international investment efforts. Funeral services will be held Friday, June 6, 2008 at 1:30pm at the Sacred Heart Church in Gardner. Burial will follow in St. John's Cemetery. Calling hours will be held Friday, June 6, 2008 from 12:30pm at the John H. Mack Funeral Home, 91 Vernon St., Gardner. Donations may be made in her memory to either Operation Smile, 6435 Tidewater Dr., Norfolk, VA 23509, www.operation smile.org, or Sacred Heart School, 53 Lynn St., Gardner, MA 01440, www.sacredheart gardner.org. For more information or to sign our online guest book please visit: www.mackfuneralhome.com John H. Mack Funeral Home, 91 Vernon St., Gardner, is directing services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CALENDARS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



115 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Investors Fret Over Financial Sector

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street ended mixed on Wednesday as concerns about the financial sector eroded enthusiasm over a decline in oil prices and a report that suggested the service economy was still growing modestly. 
 Worries about financial companies flared after Moody's Investors Service warned it might downgrade the AAA ratings of the bond insurers Ambac and MBIA Insurance.
 Some investors looking to sidestep the troubled financial sector moved into technology stocks, giving the Nasdaq composite index a 0.91 percent lift. 
 Light crude fell $1.45, to $122.30 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after the Energy Department reported that demand for gasoline receded last week and that fuel inventories jumped more than expected. Still, retail gas prices advanced to a fresh record above $3.98 a gallon on average.
 The Institute for Supply Management's service sector index came to 51.7 percent for May, down from 52 in April. But any reading above 50 signals economic expansion, so the report indicated that the economy, while behaving erratically, is not in a steady downturn.
 Still, renewed concerns about the health of the financial sector kept some buyers at bay.
 ''The market is not going to recover until the financials do,'' said Neil Massa, senior trader at MFC Global Investment Management in Boston. ''They're not going to until all of these balance sheet items are taken care of.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 12.37, or 0.10 percent, to 12,390.48.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.45, or 0.03 percent, to 1,377.20, while the Nasdaq rose 22.66, to 2,503.14.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 4.71, or 0.64 percent, to 743.71.
 Hugh Whelan, managing director at Hartford Investment Management, said Wall Street would probably remain moored at its current levels until there was a sustained pullback in oil and a more robust corporate profit picture emerged.
 He said some investors were gravitating toward technology stocks, thinking that profit at such companies were likely to hold up better in a weak economy. ''It's just a sector that is not plagued by some of the worries that are foremost on people's mind,'' he said.
 One financial company that weighed on the market on Tuesday showed a rebound. Lehman Brothers rose 79 cents to $31.40, after Merrill Lynch raised its rating on the company. On Tuesday, Lehman denied rumors that it had tapped the Federal Reserve's discount window because of cash problems. 
 J. M. Smucker said it had agreed to buy the Folgers coffee brand from Procter & Gamble in a nearly $3 billion stock deal. Smucker rose 12 cents to $53.87, and P.& G. rose $1.04 to $66.45.
 United Airlines' parent, UAL, rose 61 cents, or 7.2 percent, to $9.14, after saying it planned to cut as many as 1,100 more jobs, remove 70 aircraft from its fleet and reduce domestic capacity in the face of energy costs. The carrier previously said it planned to cut 500 jobs and that it would mothball some of its least fuel-efficient aircraft.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 22/32, to 99 5/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 3.98 percent from 3.89 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart shows line graph for daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BONDS (79%); INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (74%); COFFEE & TEA (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (71%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); COFFEE (66%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



116 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Monsanto Seeks Big Increase in Crop Yields

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Monsanto, the leader in agricultural biotechnology, pledged Wednesday to develop seeds that would double the yields of corn, soybeans and cotton by 2030 and would require 30 percent less water, land and energy to grow. 
 The announcement, coming as world leaders are meeting in Rome to discuss rising food prices and growing food shortages, appears to be aimed at least in part at winning acceptance of genetically modified crops by showing that they can play a major role in feeding the world. 
 Much of what is in the commitment are things the company was doing anyway. But Monsanto's chief executive, Hugh Grant, said in an interview Wednesday that the company wanted to make the goals public ''so this isn't just a bound report on some library shelf.'' He said it was only coincidence that the announcement was made at the same time as the meeting in Rome. 
 Monsanto said it had developed its commitment after consulting farmers, political leaders, academics and advocacy groups as to what needed to be done to increase food production without converting more forests into farmland or increasing pollution. 
 It is a matter of debate how much genetic engineering, which involves adding bacterial or other foreign genes to the DNA of plants, could contribute to improving output. 
 A recent review of agricultural technology, sponsored by the United Nations and the World Bank, depicted a limited role. But in Rome on Tuesday, the United States secretary of agriculture, Edward T. Schafer, said biotechnology would be essential if the world was to increase food supply by 2030 to meet rising demand. 
 Soybeans, corn and cotton that have been genetically engineered to provide herbicide tolerance, insect resistance or both are widely grown in the United States and several other countries. But they are largely shunned in Europe and some other areas because of concerns about potential environmental and health effects. 
 Perhaps seeking to avoid controversy, Monsanto's announcement did not mention the term ''genetic engineering.'' It referred instead to ''other technologies'' beyond breeding. 
 Monsanto's goal of doubling yields by 2030 over levels in 2000 might require a sharp acceleration in the rate by which agricultural productivity has been increasing. James E. Specht, a soybean genetics expert at the University of Nebraska, said he doubted it could be done. 
 ''The hype-to-reality ratio of that one is essentially infinity,'' Mr. Specht said. ''Seeing an exponential change in the yield curve is unlikely.'' 
 Mr. Specht said that on irrigated farms in Nebraska, soybean yields have been increasing by about 0.6 bushels an acre every year. At that rate it would take 83 years for yields to double from the 50 bushels an acre recorded in 2000. 
 But Monsanto executives say that a new technique called marker-assisted selection could double the rate of gain made from breeding. That technique does not involve altering crops by putting in foreign genes. Rather it uses genetic tests to help choose which plants to use in conventional cross-breeding, vastly speeding up the process. 
 Monsanto executives say genetic engineering could provide additional increases in output beyond that. The company's insect-resistant crops already help protect corn and cotton. And Monsanto scientists are working on genetically engineered crops that would grow better with less water and fertilizer. 
 Moreover, the company is not talking about the United States alone. In some countries, output could be increased sharply just by introducing modern hybrid corn, whether or not that corn is genetically engineered, Mr. Grant said. 
 Bill Freese, a science policy analyst at the Center for Food Safety, a Washington group critical of biotech crops, said some studies had shown that genetic engineering can actually reduce yields. He and other critics also say that the biotech crops developed so far have mainly been aimed at feeding livestock in wealthy countries, not improving the staple crops grown by small farmers in poor countries. 
 As part of its announcement Wednesday, Monsanto said it would work to improve the lives of small and poor farmers by sharing its technology. It recently announced a project with some other organizations to develop drought-tolerant corn for Africa, with Monsanto not charging royalties for use of its technology. 
 Monsanto also said it would donate $10 million over five years to public-sector programs aimed at improving yields of wheat and rice, which are not a primary focus of the company's efforts. Much of the breeding of those two food staples are performed by governments and universities. 
 While Mr. Grant said that skeptics might say Monsanto was exploiting the food crisis to win acceptance for its technology, other people ''will say it's long overdue, and thank goodness the companies are stepping up.''
 Shares of Monsanto fell by $1.54, to close at $131.60 Wednesday. But the stock has more than doubled in the last year, in part because of soaring crop prices. Besides being a leader in genetic engineering, Monsanto is one of the largest suppliers of seeds in the world. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Researchers at Monsanto's Breeding Research Center in Stonington, Ill., are working on new soybean products.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONSANTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (92%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (91%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); CROP PRODUCTION (90%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); BIOETHICS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); HERBICIDES (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SOYBEAN FARMING (78%); DNA (78%); FOOD PRICES (77%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); YIELD CURVE (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (91%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (91%)

PERSON: HUGH GRANT (MONSANTO) (59%); ED SCHAFER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



117 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: In Cost-Cutting Moves, United Will Close Low-Fare Carrier Ted and Ground Planes

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
The closet with the Kate Spade flight attendant uniforms just got some company: teddy bears.
 United Airlines is discontinuing Ted, the low-fare, no-frills division it started in 2004, as part of a broader move to ground aircraft, cut jobs and reduce costs.
 With the end of Ted, which sold stuffed animals with the airline's name, the popular industry strategy of developing an ''airline within an airline'' has been retired again, at least for now. 
 Delta shut down its Song division, which featured uniforms designed by Ms. Spade, two years ago.
 With jet fuel costing 84 percent more than it did a year ago, major airlines are raising fares and re-examining every feature of their flights, eliminating those they cannot afford.
 Along with suspending Ted, United said it would remove 100 aircraft from its fleet, including six Boeing 747-400 long-range jets, and 94 Boeing 737 medium-range planes. The airline, which had already announced plans to eliminate 30 of the planes, also said it would lay off up to 1,100 employees, on top of 500 job cuts already announced.
 The cuts followed similar steps by Delta Air Lines and American Airlines, which have said they would ground planes and discontinue routes to try to fight rising fuel costs.
 Shares of the UAL Corporation, United's parent, closed at $9.14, up about 7 percent. Several analysts said they were raising their outlooks for the stock or reducing their loss estimates as a result of the capacity cuts. 
 United's move was ''a large step toward regaining sustainable profitability,'' Daniel McKenzie, an analyst with Credit Suisse, said in a research report on Wednesday.
 Ted's quiet demise was a sharp contrast to the hoopla that surrounded the airline when it took its first flight in February 2004.
 Ted, and its rival, Song, which was introduced by Delta in 2003, were created to challenge low-fare carriers like Southwest Airlines and JetBlue Airways, which had taken market share away from the major airlines.
 Early on, United's chief executive, Glenn F. Tilton, envisioned a low-fare division as a key new strategy for its emergence from bankruptcy protection, which United entered in December 2002. Ted, based in Denver, served 20 markets in the United States and Mexico.
 Ted's creator, Sean Donohue, an executive vice president at United, described Ted at the time as ''warm, friendly and inviting.'' On Wednesday, United said Mr. Donohue was leaving the airline.
 Critics were not charmed, pointing out that the airline-within-an-airline concept failed in the 1990s, when United offered the Shuttle-by-United on the West Coast, Continental offered service on Continental Lite and Delta tried DeltaExpress in Florida, which lasted until 2003.
 Robert W. Mann Jr., an airline industry consultant, noted at the time that jokes were making the rounds that Ted really stood for ''the end of United,'' while others predicted that American would invent a low-fare carrier called Can and Northwest would develop West.
 Delta painted a fleet of Boeing 757 jets in Song's gray and lime green colors, and hired Ms. Spade to design uniforms to match. Flight attendants served equally colorful cocktails to passengers, who sat in leather seats equipped with individual television screens. 
 Delta ended its Song service in 2006, not long after it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. 
 United will begin returning Ted's Airbus A320 jets to its main fleet next spring, said Jean Medina, a company spokeswoman. 
 ''Ted worked well in another economic environment,'' Ms. Medina said. Reconfiguring the Ted plans means United can get more revenue from the same routes, she said. 
 ''This also gives us the flexibility to move these aircraft into other business markets'' where Ted service was not offered. 
 A spokeswoman for Delta said the airline also found the experience to be useful.
 ''For us, we found that Song was a learning product,'' said Betsy Talton. The airline learned that ''passengers wanted food, even if they had to pay for it, and they wanted two classes of service'' which Song did not offer. 
 Ted has economy and economy-plus service, which offers more legroom.
 The demise of Ted and Song shows the difficulty of competing with Southwest, which continues to offer pillows and snacks and allows passengers to check two bags free, though it has discontinued the limit of $299-each way tickets it long had.
 ''We started with the notion of a low-fare, low-cost airline,'' said a Southwest spokeswoman, Beth Harbin. ''We did not have to become one, and we did not have to develop a segment of our company to be one.'' 
 Z. John Zhang, a professor of marketing at the Wharton School, said he doubted that the demise of Ted, Song and their predecessors would spell the end of such efforts to differentiate service. 
 Indeed, later this month, British Airways will introduce a new carrier, Open Skies, with initial flights between New York and Paris. Each of its six Boeing 757 planes will have just 82 seats, with only 30 in coach and the rest in business and first class. Eventually, the airline plans to serve other cities in Continental Europe. 
 Once the United States airlines survive the latest crisis, Professor Zhang said he expected they would try the airline-within-an-airline concept yet again, to try to attract passengers' attention.
 ''Once the airline industry gets reorganized and gets its footing, the service will come back, if service is something that customers really demand,'' Professor Zhang said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Customers at the Denver airport. United saidWednesday it would lay off up to 1,100 employees.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIR FARES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JET FUEL (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MARKET SHARE (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (93%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); BOEING CO (91%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (84%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (93%); DAL (NYSE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (91%); BAB (BRU) (91%); BA (NYSE) (91%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (84%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (90%) COLORADO, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



118 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Zimbabwe's Reign of Terror

 BODY:
In his cynical and bloody bid to hang on to power, Zimbabwe's president, Robert Mugabe, has bet on the indifference of his neighbors and the rest of the world. So far, shamefully, he has been right. 
 On Tuesday, three-and-a-half weeks before a runoff presidential election, Mr. Mugabe's henchmen detained Morgan Tsvangirai, the popular opposition leader and likely winner of the first round, for nine hours. That is only the latest outrage.
 International aid agencies reported this week that they had been ordered to stop distributing food to hundreds of thousands of hungry Zimbabweans, at least until the June 27 vote. Officials working for Mr. Mugabe claimed that the aid groups were backing the opposition, but it is clear that the government wants to further intimidate voters while reducing the number of possible outside witnesses to its campaign of terror.
 At least 50 people have been killed since March, when the first round of voting took place, and thousands have been beaten, driven from their homes or both. Still, the international community, and African leaders in particular, have done nothing more than wring their hands. 
 The spectacle of Mr. Mugabe attending a United Nations food conference in Rome this week as if he was just another world leader was especially shameful. Mr. Mugabe used the conference to blame the West -- again -- for his country's implosion. 
 The truth is that it is his own destructive 30-year rule that destroyed commercial agriculture in Zimbabwe, frightened away foreign investment, pushed inflation to more than 100,000 percent and made millions of people dependent on foreign assistance. 
 Mr. Mugabe was not invited to a ceremonial leaders' dinner in Rome, and some officials, including from the United States and Britain, refused to meet with him. That may have assuaged some consciences. But it clearly had no effect at all on Mr. Mugabe, who is a master at feeding racial resentments. That is why African leaders urgently need to use all of their clout to halt the reign of terror and ensure that Zimbabwe's elections are as free and as fair as possible. 
 They need to demand freedom for Mr. Tsvangirai and others to campaign. They need to send high-level envoys to warn Mr. Mugabe, his generals and other cronies that they will pay a high, personal price -- including frozen foreign bank accounts and denied visas -- if these abuses continue. (Mr. Mugabe is unlikely to listen, but the rest may be more willing to recalculate their loyalties.) And they need to blanket Zimbabwe with election monitors. 
 South Africa's president, Thabo Mbeki, has the most potential influence. But Mr. Mbeki has abdicated his responsibility, so other African leaders must take charge. 
 Until now, the United States has chosen a comparatively low-key role, rather than feeding Mr. Mugabe's anti-Western rants. The time for low-key is past. Washington should use its presidency of the United Nations Security Council this month to rally international condemnation of Mr. Mugabe and forge a plan that might have a chance of averting disaster in Zimbabwe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); FOOD CHARITIES (75%); ELECTION MONITORING (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (58%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



119 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: It's Over. Now It Begins.

 BODY:
The Democratic Party has chosen Barack Obama, and that left Hillary Rodham Clinton with a choice.
 The news on Wednesday -- that she planned to withdraw by week's end -- encouraged us that she was making the right one: to exit this race in a way that unifies her party and begins to repair her political legacy, rather than further delaying the vital debate over who offers the vision, ideas and leadership to be the next president.
 We endorsed Mrs. Clinton and supported her right to fight for the Democratic nomination while there were still votes to be cast. The long and grueling primary campaigns left no doubt about the depth of her intelligence, the strength of her will and the power of her ideas. But they left many Americans with nagging doubts about her character because the greater blame for the campaigns' negativity fell on Mrs. Clinton. 
 If she withdraws by the end of the week and throws her considerable support to Mr. Obama, as her aides say she plans to do, she has a chance to start to allay those doubts.
 Mr. Obama has not amassed a winning number of delegates through the primaries and caucuses. But the Democratic nominating process -- a system that needs repair -- provides for the party's leaders to settle just this kind of inconclusive contest. They have done that.
 Mrs. Clinton's demeanor was curious on Tuesday night when she told supporters that she would consult with her team and party leaders to determine ''how to move forward.'' But word from her aides the next day that she had decided to ''suspend'' her campaign suggested that she was just saving face and recognizing the passions of her supporters and that the chants of ''Denver! Denver! Denver!'' had not lulled her into contemplating a fight at the party's convention in August.
 It is up to Mr. Obama to decide whether to make her his running mate, but if that is Mrs. Clinton's aim, it should not be a precondition for ending this fight. 
 Mrs. Clinton spent some time at her rally in New York on the last primary night answering the question, ''What does Hillary want?'' She listed powerful ideas and important goals: ending the war in Iraq, strengthening the economy, giving voice to the millions left out of George W. Bush's America, providing universal health care, restoring the nation's role as a leader in the world.
 Those are not just what Mrs. Clinton wants, they are what America needs. And at this point in the campaign, with John McCain trying to seem independent while toeing the Republican line on the most important issues, it is far more likely that a Democratic president would give the country a clean break from the most disastrous presidency of modern times.
 From the start, however, the Democratic contest has been marred by rancor. We heard talk from Obama supporters in the snows of New Hampshire about staying home in November if they could not have their nominee. Now polls show that many of Mrs. Clinton's nearly 18 million voters who are understandably disappointed say that they will sit out the election or vote for Mr. McCain. Mrs. Clinton can serve those voters best by making her promised exit and rallying them behind Mr. Obama. 
 For Mr. Obama, the leadership test begins with giving Mrs. Clinton's backers a place in his campaign. They have passion and talent and can help make Mr. Obama an even stronger candidate in what could well be a very tough race. 
 Mr. McCain has used the time since he clinched the Republican nomination to set the table for the fall campaign and to pin false labels on Mr. Obama: wild-eyed liberal, appeaser of terrorists. After seven years of divisiveness and failure, the country doesn't need more name-calling. It needs a higher-toned and far more substantive campaign. 
 Mr. Obama, who has a tendency to be more vague about his plans than we would like, needs to press back hard and with as much detail as possible about how he plans to address many urgent problems that the United States faces. 
 On the Iraq war, all Mr. McCain has offered so far is the same dodge Mr. Bush has employed so many times: to flip-flop between ''things are going so badly in Iraq that we cannot leave'' and -- the more recent -- ''things are going so well in Iraq that we cannot leave.'' Mr. Obama needs to explain that that is not a strategy and then outline his own plans for an orderly exit. 
 There are many other issues to be debated between now and November. How is this country going to set the economy back on its feet and deal with the mortgage crisis? Will it impose accountability on the money managers and bankers who caused it? How will the United States, after seven years of damaging inaction, confront global warming and rising fuel prices?
 Voters need to hear about the presidential candidates' very different philosophies about judicial appointments and about how each would approach the profound damage that President Bush's mismanagement has done to civil liberties, the balance of powers in the federal government and the United States' standing in the world.
 Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton spent the last year debating their marginal differences on these issues. The nation has enough problems, and there are enough real differences between Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain on virtually all of them for a full debate that truly tests the mettle of the two men competing for the presidency. The primaries are over. That debate needs to begin now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); IRAQ WAR (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



120 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian President Seeks Renewed Talks With Hamas

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER; Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza City.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, called unexpectedly late Wednesday for a resumption of dialogue with the Islamic militant group Hamas, a move that could herald a breakdown of his peace talks with Israel.
 In a short televised speech, Mr. Abbas, who is based in the West Bank, expressed his desire to restore national unity. Hamas took control of Gaza in June 2007. 
 Mr. Abbas said that if talks with Hamas succeeded, he would call for legislative and presidential elections. His term is supposed to end in January. 
 The Hamas takeover followed a brief but bloody factional war that ended with the routing of the Fatah forces loyal to Mr. Abbas. He subsequently fired the Hamas-led unity government, in which Fatah had participated, and appointed an alternative government in the West Bank.
 Hamas has long declared its readiness for negotiations to heal the national division, but Fatah has demanded that Hamas rescind control of Gaza first. Mr. Abbas's tone on Wednesday was more neutral, and Hamas leaders in Gaza welcomed the speech.
 Ahmed Youssef, an adviser to the Hamas government in Gaza, said the language was ''very positive'' and opened the door for dialogue ''without placing any conditions for the first time.''
 Saeb Erekat, a senior aide to Mr. Abbas, denied on Wednesday that Fatah had dropped its demand for Hamas to ''revoke its coup d'etat in Gaza.'' But, in an interview on Tuesday in Ramallah on the West Bank, Mr. Erekat hinted about the need for renewed dialogue. ''I have a problem internally with Hamas, and it is not going to be solved by bullets,'' he said.
 Israel resumed peace talks with Mr. Abbas only after he broke away from Hamas. Israel has had indirect contact with Hamas to explore the possibility of a temporary cease-fire in and around Gaza, so far without success. But Israel has refused to have direct contact with the group, which it considers a terrorist organization, and it has threatened to cut off talks with Mr. Abbas if he rejoins forces with Hamas. 
 In any case, the Israeli-Palestinian peace talks that were initiated at the United States-sponsored conference in Annapolis, Md., last fall have yielded little. With the Israeli prime minister, Ehud Olmert, embroiled in a corruption investigation and the country apparently moving toward early elections, there seems little chance of an agreement on Palestinian statehood this year. 
 The chief of the Palestinian negotiating team, Ahmed Qurei, said Wednesday that ''only a miracle'' would make it work. 
 Mr. Youssef, the Hamas adviser, interpreted Mr. Abbas's call for dialogue as a sign of distress. ''He has been disappointed by the American administration and his Israeli negotiators,'' Mr. Youssef said, adding that Mr. Abbas had been losing the respect of his people ''on a daily basis.''
 The Palestinians have been frustrated by Israel's refusal to freeze settlement activity in the West Bank. Israel says it will not build new settlements, but construction continues on existing ones, mainly in the large blocs that Israel intends to retain under any permanent agreement. 
 On Sunday the Israeli Housing Ministry said it was proceeding with plans to build more than 800 apartments in two Jewish suburbs in East Jerusalem. The Palestinians claim that territory, which Israel annexed after the 1967 war, as part of a future state. 
 Against this backdrop, Mr. Abbas's prime minister, Salam Fayyad, started a high-profile dispute with Israel on Wednesday when he called on the European Union to refuse Israel's request to upgrade its ties with the union. Mr. Fayyad said that Israel should first meet its obligations, ''especially those related to halting all settlement activities and other violations of human rights in Palestine.''
 Mr. Fayyad sent a letter to the European Union with a similar message in late May, his adviser Jamal Zakout said.
 An Israeli government official expressed ''deep regret and disappointment'' on Wednesday at what he called the Palestinians' efforts to ''undermine'' Israel's relations with Europe.
 Al Qaeda Seeks Blockade's End
 CAIRO (AP) -- Al Qaeda's No. 2 leader called on Muslims to start a holy war to break Israel's economic blockade of the Gaza Strip, in an audio recording posted Wednesday on an Islamic militant Web site.
 In the 11-minute tape, a voice purportedly belonging to the Qaeda official, Ayman al-Zawahri, says in Arabic that ''the sons of the nation should break the shackles of the treacherous regimes and move to wage jihad.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mahmoud Abbas said that if talks with Hamas succeeded, he would call for elections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABBAS MOMANI/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (94%); PEACE PROCESS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AL FATAH (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COUPS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); RELIGION (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); CORRUPTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (93%); EHUD OLMERT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (58%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (58%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



121 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: From $15 Per Diem in Albany to N.B.A. Riches

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Coach Phil Jackson once had to complain that his road per diem wasn't enough for a decent meal. He once had to lobby for a raise to $30,000 after winning his first championship on the bench.
 ''I will never put a team in monetary stress for a few more bucks,'' Jackson wrote to Jim Coyne of the Albany Patroons in May 1984. ''But I do think you know I am worth that much.''
 Adjusted for inflation, nine championships' worth with a 10th in his sights, is it fair to say Jackson merited the roughly $10 million he earned this season, with his recently extended contract due to bump his salary up again next fall? 
 In his own begrudging way, Red Auerbach once acknowledged that Jackson was an excellent coach but one whose championship teams were ''ready-made for him.'' Now here is Jackson with the chance to forever dispel the Auerbachian belief that he has been no more than a clever shepherd of greatness, from Jordan and Pippen to Kobe and Shaq.
 Had any of those players ever won it all before Jackson? How, exactly, did Kobe and his Shaq-less cast fare during Jackson's one-year leave? (Didn't make the playoffs.)
 In a fascinating N.B.A. finals sidebar, Jackson's revamped Lakers may well have to win a championship here in Boston, on Auerbach's hallowed turf, where pro basketball's signature rivalry resumes tonight after 21 years. If they do, Jackson becomes the sport's most credentialed coach, the protege of another Red, Holzman, leaving the Auerbach loyalists a Celtics shade of green.
 And all, quite possibly, because Jim Coyne, an Albany county executive and president of a new Continental Basketball Association franchise more than a quarter century ago, had a thing for Holzman's championship Knicks and especially for their role players. He telephoned Jackson during the 1982-83 season to offer him the job that a former Knicks teammate, Dean Meminger, was about to lose.
 ''I think at that time, Phil had pretty much divorced himself from the game,'' Coyne said in a telephone interview. ''I called him at his home out west. He said, 'Can you call back in an hour?' I called back and he said O.K. The next season, we won the C.B.A. title.''
 After which Jackson handwrote Coyne a two-page letter from Puerto Rico, where he coached during warm-weather months, to state his contractual demands. In addition to a pay increase, he wanted his meal money raised from $15 to 18 to $25 to $30; for the Patroons to pay fines incurred from technical foul calls, which he believed were ''a coaching tool''; and for his friend Charley Rosen to be paid more as an assistant and allowed to travel.
 Coyne, who dug out the correspondence and faxed it along, responded by tentatively agreeing to the $30,000 salary, rejecting the per diem in lieu of the pay increase, vaguely responding to the technical foul request and citing league rules forbidding assistants to go on the road.
 Viewed from its extremes, the Jackson evolution has been a strange, long trip, Albany to Hollywood, Zen and now. Back when he was with the Patroons, the spiritual Jackson described coaching in the C.B.A. to me as ''a more organic experience.'' A nice way, apparently, to rationalize being his own scout, traveling secretary, parent surrogate and driver of the team van, occasionally from Albany to Bangor, Me.
 ''I used to ask Phil why he didn't make the players drive,'' Coyne said. ''He'd say: 'More leg room in the driver's seat.' ''
 Air travel being permissible for C.B.A. trips longer than 200 miles, I happened to run into Jackson and his team in December 1985 at the gate in Atlanta, changing planes on my way to Pensacola, Fla., to report a story on a comeback by the former Knicks center Marvin Webster. That night, after the game in Pensacola, Jackson suggested we dine at a roadside seafood shack that was no threat to his tight budget. 
 The man Knicks fans knew as Action Jackson was 41, with a houseful of children in Woodstock, N.Y., working in what he called ''a negative situation'' financially, contemplating life's options, law school among them. He believed he was too much the iconoclast, the curly haired hippie who had written in an autobiography about his experimentation with drugs, to land a head-coaching job in the N.B.A. But even in the mind-boggling basketball bush leagues, he found the profession captivating, even addictive. 
 While logic was telling him to get on with life, there was a gnawing belief that he could be good, real good, if only someone would give him a chance.
 It must be noted that Jackson spent four and a half years in Albany, more dues than most ever pay, before Jerry Krause, the Bulls' general manager, hired him as an assistant in 1987. He succeeded Doug Collins as the head coach two years later. ''The rest is history,'' said Coyne, who reflected on that first call to Jackson when the Hall of Fame called him last year.
 ''From a pay phone in an American Legion hall in Lima, Ohio,'' Coyne said. Fittingly enough, and where $15-$18 a day was no doubt worth more than in Chicago or L.A.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Phil Jackson started his pro headcoaching career with the Albany Patroons of the C.B.A. before going on to win nine N.B.A. championships.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBANY TIMES UNION)
 MORE MONEY PLEASE: Jackson's letter to the Patroons' president after leading Albany to the title, and the response. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); INTERVIEWS (79%); ATHLETES (77%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (54%)

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



122 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; FRENCH OPEN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Safina, Back From the Brink Again, and Monfils Advance

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
A sign of impending doom to most tennis players who confront it, match point has been a guarantee of nothing but sunshine ahead for Dinara Safina at this rainy French Open.
 After being a point from defeat Monday against No. 1 seed Maria Sharapova at 3-5 in the second set, Safina was back on the plank with her toes dangling over the waves against Elena Dementieva on Wednesday at 3-5 in the second set.
 But Safina once again found a way to sneak back on the deck and into the next round. 
 Dementieva, the seventh seed, hit a two-handed backhand return long to let Safina get back to deuce. Safina proceeded, with considerable difficulty, to close out the set and then romp into her first Grand Slam semifinal with a 4-6, 7-6 (5), 6-0 victory. 
 ''Of course, once you went through this, you always believe, why not the second time?'' the 13th-seeded Safina said. ''So inside, it's kind of, O.K., still the match is not over. ''
 Her next opponent, Svetlana Kuznetsova, has been warned.
 ''It's going to be very tough match,'' Kuznetsova said. ''She has too many lives, so I have to be careful with her.''
 Kuznetsova, a finalist here in 2006 and the United States Open champion in 2004, continued her comparative cruise through the draw with a 7-5, 6-2 win over the unseeded Kaia Kanepi of Estonia.
 The other semifinal Thursday will be between two Serbs: No. 2 seed Ana Ivanovic and No. 3 Jelena Jankovic. 
 Safina's upset of Sharapova guaranteed that Ivanovic, Jankovic or Kuznetsova would take over the top spot in the rankings next week for the first time. 
 The men's semifinal lineup is also set, and the four players involved include the three men vying for command of the game and the surprise of the tournament: the unseeded Frenchman Gael Monfils.
 Rafael Nadal, the three-time defending champion, will face Novak Djokovic in the most anticipated of Friday's semifinals. The 59th-ranked Monfils will face the No. 1 seed, Roger Federer, in the other, which just may generate more interest in France. 
 Federer started poorly Wednesday before recovering to win his quarterfinal, 2-6, 6-2, 6-3, 6-4, against the 24th-seeded Fernando Gonzalez, a big-hitting Chilean who had not lost on clay this season. 
 Monfils's unexpected presence in the quarterfinals meant that Federer's match was played on the second show court at Roland Garros, while Monfils and his fifth-seeded opponent, David Ferrer of Spain, played on center stage, on Philippe Chatrier court.
 But even the partisan crowd was not quite ready for what happened next, as Monfils held up physically against one of the most indefatigable of attacking baseliners, rolling to a 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 6-1 upset.
 Monfils, once the world's top-ranked junior, has struggled since peaking at No. 23 in the rankings in 2006. 
 Injuries and frequent coaching changes have knocked him back, along with a tendency to play defensively.
 But he looked to be in fine form Wednesday, wearing down Ferrer, who had played consecutive five-set matches. 
 ''It's true that I was worn out, especially the arm,'' Ferrer said. ''I was tired. He, on the other hand, played very well.''
 After reuniting with his coach Thierry Champion, a former French touring professional known for his success in marathon matches, the 21-year-old Monfils has whipped himself into shape and a strong state of mind. There was no hint Wednesday that this was his first Grand Slam quarterfinal.
 ''Thierry told me to stop playing economically,'' Monfils said. ''He told me to be strong in my head.'' 
 Safina's match against Dementieva was a much more civilized repeat of Safina's screech-filled bout with Sharapova. But then the family connections run deep between Safina and Dementieva, whose first coach in Moscow was Safina's mother, Rausa Islanova.
 Islanova was in the stands Wednesday, although she no longer coaches Dementieva or her daughter, who is working with a Croatian coach, Zeljko Krajan. ''She's just my mother,'' Safina said. ''I have a coach.'' 
 For nearly two sets, Krajan must have been suffering, as Safina got the worst of the baseline exchanges and berated herself in Russian. 
 Then, in a rush, Dementieva, like Sharapova, had to accept that her formerly vulnerable opponent was suddenly bearing down, hitting line after line and digging out shots in the corners. In both cases, the change came with Safina down by 2-5 in the second set. 
 ''At 5-2, I just changed completely my game,'' Safina said. ''Just kept telling myself, give her one more ball, give her one more ball.''
 There would be plenty more in the second set, with Safina requiring six set points to finally tie the match. Extended rallies were the rule, with each player searching for angles and Safina intent on changing pace and trajectory. The differences, in the end, were small yet visible. Dementieva's backhand was the weak link, and her much improved serve did not produce quite enough pressure.
 Then there was Dementieva's nerve. A champion for the ages probably finds a way to get the ball in play on match point. A champion probably finds a way not to make four unforced ground-stroke errors when serving for the match at 5-4 in the next game. And a champion certainly finds a way not to drop the final set, 6-0, after allowing Safina back into the match.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dinara Safina, above, reached her first Grand Slam semifinal. She will next face Svetlana Kuznetsova at the French Open.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS GUILLOT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); RANKINGS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%)

PERSON: ROGER FEDERER (78%); NOVAK DJOKOVIC (58%); MARIA SHARAPOVA (58%); RAFAEL NADAL (58%); ANA IVANOVIC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (74%); ESTONIA (54%); SPAIN (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



123 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Leaders Speak of Their Own Issues at a Conference Addressing Food Shortages

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL and ANDREW MARTIN

DATELINE: ROME 

 BODY:
It was supposed to be an emergency conference on food shortages, climate change and energy. At the opening ceremony on Tuesday, the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, noted that there were nearly one billion people short of food, and he called upon countries gathered here to act with ''a sense of purpose and mission.'' 
 But when the microphone was turned on for the powerful politicians who had flown in from all over the world, they spoke mostly about economic issues in their own countries and political priorities. 
 The United States' agriculture secretary, Ed Schafer, talked about the benefits of biofuels and genetically modified crops. Brazil's president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, spoke for half an hour about how Brazilian biofuels were superior to American ones. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, president of Iran, talked about the need to inject religion into food politics. 
 Everyone complained about other people's protectionism -- and defended their own.
 Food experts on Wednesday, as well as many representatives from poor countries, wondered whether these divided forces could add up to any kind of solution to a global conundrum: how to feed one billion hungry people.
 ''What is the common denominator here? It is a food crisis,'' said Denis Sassou-Nguesso, president of the Congo Republic. ''That is the immediate problem for us.'' 
 A ''green revolution'' about three decades ago brought vastly increased output to agriculture in much of the world, with improved agricultural techniques and fertilizers. But it did little to improve agriculture in some of the poorest parts of the world, particularly Africa, where harvests have remained stagnant under the pressures of neglect, political unrest and, now, climate change.
 But in the industrialized world, farming became more of a regulated business. Farm entitlements became so entrenched that repeated efforts at reform, even in the face of soaring crop prices, have fallen flat, as evidenced by the inability to reach agreement on farming disputes at the World Trade Organization.
 Against this backdrop, the food emergency has done little to prompt a consensus on a new approach that might make the world agricultural system more responsive to global food demand. There has been plenty of argument this week over whether shortages and high prices were caused by the rush to biofuels, protective tariffs, the soaring price of oil, distorting subsidies or a market failure. But the issues appear too complex, and too heavily freighted with politics, to be addressed soon. 
 Robert B. Zoellick, president of the World Bank, said money was crucial to solving the short-term need for food aid to feed the world's hungry. But he said preventing food crises would require more difficult policy changes.
 In the meantime, many representatives from poorer countries expressed frustration at the tenor of the meeting. ''We believe the problem is much more political than everything else,'' said Walter Poveda Ricaurte, agriculture minister of Ecuador. ''We have to differentiate between the countries who are really affected by the food crisis and those who are seeing it as an economic opportunity.''
 He said that when food prices were low, in recent decades, Ecuador had stopped producing its own wheat, corn and soy -- favoring cheap imports instead. Now that prices of these commodities have doubled in the past year, the country can no longer afford them, he said. 
 The conference has raised money for emergency relief. The Islamic Development Bank pledged $1.5 million on Wednesday. Mr. Ban estimated that $15 billion to $20 billion was needed to help resolve the food crisis. 
 But there was little sign that the economic and political disputes that often took center stage here resulted in new compromises. 
 Mr. da Silva attacked the ''absurdly protectionist farm policies in rich countries,'' a clear reference to the United States, which protects its own corn ethanol from competition with Brazilian ethanol, made from sugar cane. 
 American delegates attacked barriers to trade in poorer countries as well as in the European Union. China, which has not invested heavily in biofuels, said that ''grain-based biofuels has driven up grain utilization and has potential to trigger more far reaching problems.''
 Officials at the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, which sponsored the meeting, were sanguine about the results. ''Sometimes I think the discussion is not focused on the need of countries and poor people,'' said Jose Maria Sumpsi, assistant director general of the organization. ''But you have to take into account that you are hearing the positions of the governments -- defending their political views -- which is different from whether they will fund immediate action.'' 
 The conference is to issue its concluding statement on Thursday, and delegates said the wording of the section on biofuels was a point of contention. The United States said only 2 to 3 percent of the global increase in food prices was attributable to competition from biofuels. But other countries put the figure far higher. 
 ''I doubt there will be a positive agreement on biofuels'' from the conference, said Mr. Schafer, the American agriculture secretary, though he indicated that some ''acceptable'' language would be in the meeting's final document.
 There has also been only limited discussion about developing a new kind of aid program that most experts agree is needed: one that invests in developing agriculture in poor countries and that spends less money in shipping food halfway around the world to feed hungry people. 
 ''The era of food aid is over -- there is no more sending food from America to Africa,'' Kofi Annan, former United Nations secretary general, said in an interview. Instead, he said, donors need to do more to improve agricultural practices in Africa and Asia, with donations of tools, fertilizers, seeds, silos and knowledge. 
 Officials from many major donor countries said they had been rethinking food aid policies -- if only because food prices were now so high and transport was becoming increasingly costly.
 Henrietta H. Fore, administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, said that transport costs were now soaking up 50 percent of its food aid money, and that the rising prices of essential commodities like oil were ''eating away at our purchasing power.'' 
 In the past, the program was heavily weighted toward sending food abroad, and it required that its aid be purchased in the United States and shipped on American vessels. 
 She said that in a bill now before Congress, 25 percent of food in a new $350 million aid package could be purchased overseas. But that has not been approved yet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker in Brazil cutting sugar cane, which the country uses to make ethanol. Competition between the United States and Brazil on ethanol was a point of contention at a conference on food. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (92%); BIOMASS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (76%); AGRICULTURE (75%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); BIOFUELS (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (73%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (70%); FERTILIZERS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); RELIGION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (73%); ED SCHAFER (57%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (57%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (54%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); CONGO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



124 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Governor Declares Drought in California and Warns of Rationing

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Its reservoir levels receding and its grounds parched, California has fallen officially into drought, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said Wednesday, warning that the state might be forced to ration water to cities and regions if conservation efforts did not improve. 
 The drought declaration -- the first for the state since 1991 -- includes orders to transfer water from less dry areas to those that are dangerously dry. Mr. Schwarzenegger also said he would ask the federal government for aid to farmers and press water districts, cities and local water agencies to accelerate conservation. Drought conditions have hampered farming, increased water rates throughout California and created potentially dangerous conditions in areas prone to wildfires. 
 The declaration comes after the driest California spring in 88 years, with runoff in river basins that feed most reservoirs at 41 percent of average levels. It stops short of a water emergency, which would probably include mandatory rationing. 
 Efforts to capture water have also been hampered by evaporation of some mountain snowpacks that provide water, an effect, state officials say, of global climate change. 
 A survey this year found that the state's snowpack water content was 67 percent of average, and the Colorado River Basin, from which California draws some water, is coming off a record eight-year drought, contributing to the drop in reservoir storage.
 The drought declaration, made when reservoir levels are far higher than they were when Gov. Pete Wilson issued a similar statement in 1991 -- is as much a political statement as a practical one. Mr. Schwarzenegger is pressing the Legislature to approve an $11.9 billion water bond as part of the state budget to pay for water storage and to fix the state's aging water delivery systems. 
 The governor, a Republican, has said that addressing California's seemingly omnipresent water shortage is one of his most urgent priorities, but his ideas have not passed muster with the Legislature in the past. 
 ''This drought is an urgent reminder of the immediate need to upgrade California's water infrastructure,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said Wednesday in a prepared statement. ''There is no more time to waste because nothing is more vital to protect our economy, our environment and our quality of life.''
 A bill to require Californians to cut water use 20 percent recently passed the Assembly. The bill, which requires Senate approval, puts most of the onus on residents, and little on the agriculture industry, underscoring tension over conservation between city dwellers and farmers, who consume most of the state's water. 
 Across the state, many districts and municipalities are instituting or considering recycling, rationing and higher fees for excessive use. For instance, Los Angeles officials recently announced their intentions to begin using heavily cleansed sewage to increase drinking water supplies. 
 The East Bay Municipal Utility District and the Long Beach Water Department, serving districts at opposite ends of the state, have made water rationing mandatory. 
 ''Some cities and regions are rationing, some are doing nothing and a group of people are in the middle,'' the director of California's Department of Water Resources, Lester A. Snow, said in a telephone interview. ''The governor thought it was important to step out in front and get ahead of this. It is in part to avoid an emergency.''
 In a telephone interview later, Mr. Schwarzenegger said, ''Water is like our gold, and we have to treat it like that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A farm near Bakersfield has been put up for sale for commercial development. There is tension between city residents and farmers, who consume most of California's water
 With water being diverted upstream, the Kern River in Bakersfield, Calif., is expected to remain dry. Reserve wells were opened this week in Kern County. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID MCNEW/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DROUGHT (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); WATER RIGHTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (73%); BEACHES (72%); UTILITY RATES (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); RIVERS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



125 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: At Harvard, They Hail A Fed Chief

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
Ben S. Bernanke spoke about the economic pressures created by high oil prices and inflation at his alma mater on Wednesday.
 What many graduating seniors at Harvard may not have realized is just how familiar the territory is for Mr. Bernanke, now the Federal Reserve chairman.
 Back in 1975, he tackled the issue of high energy prices in his senior thesis, which he wrote as a long-haired undergraduate. He created a model that prescribed deregulating natural gas prices -- years before the government took that route to help end the energy crisis and the wage-price spiral of the 1970s. The thesis won Harvard's prize for best undergraduate economics paper.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Bernanke dismissed the idea that rising oil prices pose the same kind of threat to the economy today. While acknowledging the similarities, he said the environment has changed considerably. Increased efficiency of energy use and the use of alternate energy sources have softened the blow of record high oil costs, he said. 
 Echoing comments from earlier in the week, when he warned about the problems of the weak dollar, Mr. Bernanke said the current rate of inflation, at about 3.5 percent, was ''significantly higher than we would like.'' But he noted that price pressures were nowhere near the ''double-digit rates that inflation reached in the mid-1970s and then again in 1980.'' Back then, Arab oil embargoes wreaked havoc on the American energy market.
 ''In addition to creating long lines at gasoline stations, the oil price shock exacerbated what was already an intensifying buildup of inflation and inflation expectations,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bernanke gave credit to the economists who learned from the Fed's mistakes in that era, when the central bank found itself nearly helpless to keep prices in line. He also said that there is ''little indication today'' that a wage-price spiral will appear in the economy.
 His speech included only one reference to his thesis, titled ''An Integrated Model for Energy Policy.'' A review of the paper reveals a young economist eager to tackle pressing policy issues -- and skeptical of the complex economic models that would, three decades later, present him with the biggest challenge of his career.
 The thesis was the capstone to a brilliant undergraduate run that began in the fall of 1971, when Mr. Bernanke arrived in Harvard Yard as a spelling bee champ from a small rural town in South Carolina. 
 ''He had a lot more hair than he does now,'' Paul M. Brown, 55, a freshman roommate, recalled in a telephone interview. ''Handlebar moustache, half of a Fu Manchu. But no beard.''
 Freshman year was fairly austere for Mr. Bernanke, who alternated between advanced math classes and pick-up bridge games in his dorm. He studied in his cramped bedroom amid a sprawl of papers, his roommate said. 
 He also showed an early grasp of opportunity cost and economies of scale. As Mr. Brown tells it, the roommates could not afford a ride to New Haven when the Harvard-Yale football game rolled around. Instead, they rented a few buses, sold seats to classmates, and pocketed a small profit. 
 His real business acumen, however, appeared in the classroom. ''He was the superstar of all time as an undergraduate,'' said Dale Jorgenson, the economics professor who advised Mr. Bernanke's thesis.
 Mr. Bernanke's mane had started to thin out by the time he approached the professor in 1974. ''Ben quickly proved that he could write something quite comparable to a Ph.D. thesis,'' Professor Jorgenson said. 
 The resulting paper focused on a feat of quantitative engineering: Mr. Bernanke squashed together two economic models -- one narrow, one broad -- to create a program that would more accurately simulate the effect of energy policies on the larger economy. 
 After a few simulations, Mr. Bernanke's paper endorsed deregulating natural gas prices, a view that, Professor Jorgenson said, was ahead of its time. 
 ''I would say that the government pretty much followed our recommendation,'' Professor Jorgenson said. ''Not because we were in a position to have any influence over the outcome, but that's just the way things worked out.''
 Mr. Bernanke's support for deregulation foreshadowed his eventual reputation as a moderate conservative. In his speech Wednesday, Mr. Bernanke again argued that the government must allow for private-sector innovation to encourage growth and avoid inhibiting the ''dynamism of our economy.''
 His speech was more subdued than his thesis, which was written in a commanding, clean literary voice, and peppered with asides about an issue that would continue to confront the future Fed chief: the intersection of economic theory and real-world policymaking. At times, Mr. Bernanke waxed philosophical, reflecting on the limits of a theoretical model when applied outside the classroom.
 ''No matter how sophisticated the theory behind an estimated equation, the equation is always naive,'' he wrote. ''This is particularly problematical in the social sciences, when the basic unit of observation is so often that political, free-willed, unpredictable character, the individual human.'' 
 It was a flurry of sophisticated models that, in part, led to the current economic crisis that Mr. Bernanke has faced as Fed chairman. Bankers who hoped to repackage debt into complex vehicles -- considered foolproof by some -- were stunned by the subprime mortgage meltdown.
 In a dash of humility back then, he also deflected suggestions that his undergraduate research be used for serious policymaking. ''As the model stands now, I feel that it is probably not of great value in actual policy decision,'' he wrote, adding that the model is only a starting point ''that invites further development in a number of directions.''
 On Wednesday, halfway through his remarks, Mr. Bernanke poked fun at himself for delivering a relatively dry economics speech at what is usually a festive ceremony for college students. ''At this point you may be saying to yourself, 'Is it too late to book Ali G?' '' he joked. 
 He could have taken a different tack: an April article in the student newspaper, The Harvard Crimson, suggested that in lieu of a speech, Mr. Bernanke could ''hover over the Yard in a helicopter and drop fistfuls of cash.'' 
 Mr. Bernanke wasn't the only financial heavyweight from his class in town. Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, who shared a dining hall and library with Mr. Bernanke at Harvard, was celebrating his son's college graduation.
 In their 1975 yearbook, the Fed chief appeared just above a bespectacled Mr. Blankfein, who appeared in a wide-lapel, houndstooth blazer. Mr. Bernanke opted for plaid flannel. (The two knew each other at school but were not close friends.) 
 Professor Jorgenson, also in attendance, said he was glad to have Mr. Bernanke at the Fed's helm amid the economic crisis.
 ''I expected that he would do something great,'' he said. ''I didn't realize it was going to be this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, Federal Reserve chief, spoke about the economy at his alma mater Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM HUNGER/REUTERS)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (71%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



126 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Rejoicing in Kenya at U.S. Triumph of a Sort of Native Son

BYLINE: By REUBEN KYAMA

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya 

 BODY:
The banner headline across The Kenya Times on Wednesday seemed to say it all, ''Obama makes history, beats odds.''
 A day after Senator Barack Obama secured the Democratic presidential nomination, villagers in his father's hometown shouted traditional songs and praised God for the outsized success of a ''village son.'' 
 Here in the capital, office workers turned their attentions to the radio and television stations that constantly replayed Mr. Obama's victory speech. Unemployed men in the slums toasted the moment with a popular brand of beer, Senator Keg lager, that Kenyans have renamed ''Obama.'' 
 Beneath the sense of joy was cautious optimism. Despite the milestone reached by Mr. Obama, whose father was Kenyan, many Kenyans say that Republicans in the United States remain powerful, well financed and difficult to beat and that Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, has the inexorable advantage of being a white candidate in a largely white nation.
 ''It's still too early to celebrate,'' Joyce Nkuubi, 45, a florist, said. ''He has some more work to do if he's to defeat McCain.''
 The day was certainly not as jubilant as it was when Mr. Obama visited Kenya in 2006 in an orchestrated four-country African tour to raise awareness of AIDS and connect with his roots. Thousands of people lined the streets of Nairobi to catch a glimpse of him, waiting hours in the sun. 
 But in the west, in Nyangoma-Kogelo, a collection of tin-roofed shacks and rutted dirt roads with little electricity or running water, a celebration occurred without him. Scores of villagers flocked to the home of Sarah Obama, his step-grandmother, to dance in the family compound and pray.
 ''Everybody there is full of excitement,'' Barack Karama, a journalist in western Kenya, said. ''There are many journalists, as well as people who are streaming in and out to offer congratulatory messages to the grandmother.'' 
 Ms. Obama said she had predicted the victory, Mr. Karama said. 
 Many residents of Nyangoma-Kogelo are subsistence farmers, and Mr. Obama has come to represent pride and hope for them. 
 Because of his celebrity, the village has become something of a focal point, with journalists of many stripes putting up at a nearby port, Kisumu. 
 ''I have spent the whole day here in Kisumu talking with journalists,'' said Said Obama, an uncle of the senator. 
 Many Kenyans seemed to have few expectations that Mr. Obama, if elected president, would suddenly steer American policies to their advantage. But they saw significant, if sometimes indirect benefits. 
 ''Since Obama has his roots in Kenya, it is obvious that Kenya and Africa will receive a lot of international attention,'' Maurice Ogola, 31, computer technician, said. ''That international limelight on Kenya and Africa is very good. 
 ''We need much foreign aid, we need a lot of help to boost our economic growth, and that can come from a new America. Obama has a lot of potential to bring the much needed change.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); BEER & ALE (75%); SLUM DWELLINGS (70%); AIDS & HIV (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (90%) KENYA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



127 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: A Historic Night, an American Dream

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''After Grueling Battle, Obama Claims Nomination'' (front page, June 4):
 The nomination of Barack Obama by the Democratic Party is truly a historic moment. For those, like me, who can remember the Brown v. Board of Education Supreme Court decision, school integration battles in Little Rock, Ark., the sit-ins in Greensboro, N.C., the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King's March on Washington and the Voting Rights Act, it is absolutely amazing.
 All Americans -- black and white, men and women, Northerners and Southerners -- should pause along with the candidate to reflect on the significance of this event. It marks yet another major step in the redemption of America's soul from its dark legacy of slavery and Jim Crow bigotry, and its fulfillment of, as Mr. Obama often says, hope for a better life for all. 
 Paul M. Wortman East Setauket, N.Y., June 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Calm in the Swirl of History'' (Man in the News, front page, June 4):
 Even as one political horse race comes to a close and we move on to the next, we should all take a moment to reflect on the biggest lesson of the Democratic primary season: Dream big. When one is blessed enough to be born in America, anything is possible. 
 During the primaries we saw glass ceilings shattered and brick walls reduced to rubble; we saw stereotypes and conventional wisdom thrown out the window. I am inspired by the force with which millions of Americans in every state said with a unified voice that today in America sex and race are not barriers to becoming president of the United States.
 Tomorrow morning, all parents can look their children in the eye and say with all earnestness: If you work hard enough, if you are talented enough, you can be elected president.
 Always, but especially now, I am proud to be an American and proud of the vigor with which the country announced to the world: the American Dream is alive and well!
 Stephen M. Ahron New York, June 4, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Growing up as a young black girl in the 1950s, I always knew there were glass ceilings everywhere despite the many privileges that I enjoyed. My parents tried to instill a sense of possibility. 
 Against all odds, my dad earned a master's degree on the G.I. Bill, garnering credit for designing communication systems for the Apollo space program. His accomplishments raised the bar for many who came after and gave us all hope that America's doors were actually opening to us. But like the experiences of many black people, the highs often occurred simultaneously with the lows. 
 Even as my dad soared, I integrated a small private high school, igniting hidden hatreds and drawing death threats against our family. In this context, I have watched and hoped against hope that Barack Obama could get the Democratic nomination for president. 
 Today, my hope is not just audacious but bodacious.
 I can feel the shards of glass cascading over my shoulders as I look up to the limitless sky that is now my children's. 
 Elaine Wilkes Cody South Orange, N.J., June 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Next on Agenda Is Clinton's Role'' (news analysis, front page, June 4):
 The idea of Hillary Rodham Clinton as Barack Obama's running mate is fundamentally flawed. While it might seem politically expedient, it would deny Americans of all political persuasions the very choice that Mr. Obama offers: a break with the partisan intrigues of the past. 
 As a Democrat and former Clinton supporter as disenchanted by her campaign as I am inspired by his, I hope that Democratic Party power brokers will find the courage to let this emerging leader strike his own course. 
 Mark Hugh Miller Los Angeles, June 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''She's Still Here!,'' by Maureen Dowd (column, June 4):
 To everyone with two eyes and ears, it has been clear for weeks that the race for the Democratic nomination was over. Yet on Tuesday night, as Barack Obama finally clinched his party's nomination, Hillary Rodham Clinton did everything in her power to upstage his moment.
 Rather than rally her troops around the newly crowned Democratic nominee, she continued to hammer away at her case for electability while pointedly refusing to acknowledge that Mr. Obama had won the nomination. 
 As lifelong Democrats and strong Bill and Hillary Clinton supporters, my husband and I were shocked and appalled.
 The nominating contest is over. Mrs. Clinton lost, Mr. Obama won. The sooner she comes to that realization, the better, for the sake of the Democratic Party and the sake of both her and her husband's legacies.
 Diane Watson Scottsdale, Ariz., June 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As a lifelong Democrat, I share Bob Herbert's chagrin expressed in ''A Gift to the G.O.P.'' (column, June 3). But we should be wary of this frustration becoming a self-fulfilling -- and self-defeating -- prophecy. 
 The spring yielded unprecedented political buzz in states with later primaries, resulting in surges in Democratic voter registrations. 
 Hillary Rodham Clinton's presence in the campaign may have helped the party more than we realize. With two wars, two more Supreme Court seats and our economy at stake, will her supporters really vote for John McCain? I'll call that bluff any day, and I'm sure that Barack Obama will, too. 
 We'll be fine in November. 
 Justin Stoler San Diego, June 3, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GRADY WHITE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (77%); CHILDREN (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); MEN (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); RACE & RACISM (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); SLAVERY (70%); ELECTION LAW (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (57%); SUPREME COURTS (57%); APPEALS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (92%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



128 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Rare Poll Finds That Money Woes Are Cubans' Top Worry

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
A rare study conducted surreptitiously in Cuba found that more than half of those interviewed considered their economic woes to be their chief concern while less than 10 percent listed lack of political freedom as the main problem facing the country. 
 ''Almost every poll you ever see, even those in the U.S., goes to bread-and-butter issues,'' said Alex Sutton, director of Latin American and Caribbean programs at the International Republican Institute, which conducted the study. ''Everybody everywhere is interested in their purchasing power.'' 
 The institute is a nonprofit democracy-building group affiliated with the Republican Party that strongly opposes Cuba's Communist government.
 The results showed deep anxiety about the state of the country, with 35 percent of respondents saying things were ''so-so'' and 47 percent saying they were going ''badly'' or ''very badly.'' As for the government's ability to turn things around, Cubans were skeptical, with 70 percent of those interviewed saying they did not believe that the authorities would resolve the country's biggest problem in the next few years.
 The study, to be released on Thursday, was conducted from March 14 to April 12, after Raul Castro officially took over the presidency. 
 Since taking office, Raul Castro has rolled out a variety of changes, lifting longstanding restrictions on the sale of cellphones and consumer items, access to tourist hotels and renting cars, among other things. The survey did not specifically ask Cubans about those changes.
 Conducting surveys in Cuba is difficult and the institute did not seek the required permission from the authorities.
 For the study, Latin American interviewers talked to 587 Cuban adults face to face across all of Cuba's provinces. A telephone survey was not considered because large segments of the population do not have phones.
 In 2006, the Gallup Organization conducted a survey in Havana and Santiago that found that more Cubans approved of Fidel Castro's leadership than disapproved of it. The previous Gallup poll, in 1994, found that Cubans considered the revolution that brought Mr. Castro to power more of a success than a failure. Most Cubans in that survey also attributed their economic woes to the American trade embargo. 
 The International Republican Institute conducted its first Cuban study in October and plans regular interviews with a cross section of Cubans. 
 The study to be published Thursday found that young people were much more critical of Raul Castro's government than their parents and grandparents were. Nearly 70 percent of Cubans 18 to 29 said that if given a chance they would support a democratic system with multiparty elections, freedom of speech and freedom of expression. Among those 60 or older, support for such a change dropped to 44 percent.
 Cubans of all ages supported an economic overhaul. More than 80 percent said they backed a market economic system that included the right to own property and run businesses.
 Cuba's problems were ranked this way: low salaries and high cost of living, double currency standard, lack of political freedoms, embargo and isolation, food scarcity, lack of medicines, poor transportation infrastructure and lack of housing or dilapidated conditions.
 Given an opportunity to rate Raul Castro from zero to 10, with zero being ''very bad'' and 10 being ''very good,'' the average of the Cubans' responses was 5.55.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cubans used a cellphone to take photos in Havana recently after Cuba's government lifted some restrictions on consumer items. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA MORTON/GENESIS PHOTOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (57%)

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL REPUBLICAN INSTITUTE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (89%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



129 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2276 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 5, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 PAKISTAN'S LEADING PARTY 
 Mired by Infighting
 Pakistan's main political party, the Pakistan People's Party, took steps to curtail President Pervez Musharraf's power by proposing broad constitutional changes. But it upheld Mr. Musharraf's decision to dismiss the chief justice of the Supreme Court and other high court judges, angering the nation's lawyers. The move has spawned fresh conflict in a government that has held power for only two months, consuming its attention in the midst of pressing economic, food and energy concerns. Page A10 
 MACHINE'S ROLL IN WAR ON TERROR
 The amount of remotely piloted aircraft in Iraq and Afghanistan has more than doubled since last year, and the Air Force has promised that 25 of these craft will be in the air around the clock. The craft are part of a new wave of unmanned vehicles that reduce risk to ground troops and increase the ability to track terrorists and insurgent leaders, a resource that rates higher and higher as an end to the troop buildup looms. Page A12 
 EFFECT OF BANGLADESH ARRESTS
 Bangladesh's caretaker government began a ''crusade against crime'' a year ago. It has rounded up nearly 12,000 people on corruption charges, claiming its efforts are to maintain peace for the coming campaign season. Politicians counter that the arrests are a way to damp political activity, especially since the arrests began directly after the two main parties refused talks with the government. Page A17 
 IS THAT A FIN ON THE HORIZON?
 The shark, nature's wonder that seems to be made of little more than teeth and appetite, has been making its presence felt along Mexico's Pacific coastline. Since April, there have been three attacks; two of the victims bled to death. Efforts have been made to hunt the killers down, but experts say that attempts to find specific sharks are probably futile. Now enjoying or working on the beach requires an ear cocked for screams of terror among those of merrymaking. Page A8
 NATIONAL
 AFTER DRIEST SPRING, CALIFORNIA 
 Faces First Drought Since 1991
 California has officially fallen into drought, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said, warning that the state might be forced to ration water to cities and regions if conservation efforts do not improve. The drought declaration, the first for the state since 1991, comes after the driest California spring on record, with runoff in river basins that feed most reservoirs at 41 percent of average levels. PAGE A18
 OBAMA TURNS ATTENTION TO MIDEAST
 The Democratic nomination seemingly his, Senator Barack Obama turned from national to Middle East politics, telling the nation's foremost pro-Israel lobby that he favored a two-state Israel-Palestine settlement, but also saying that Jerusalem should remain both the capital of the Jewish nation and undivided. The remarks drew immediate criticism from Palestinian leaders in the West Bank and Gaza. PAGE A25
 STALLING CLIMATE CHANGE ACTION
 Senate Republicans brought discourse over legislation to combat global warming to a dead stop by insisting that the clerk read aloud every word of the 492-page bill. But even before that, there was not a lot of forward movement, thanks partly to Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, a firm nonbeliever in catastrophic climate change. PAGE A19
 NEW DISPUTE FOR RED CROSS
 The American Red Cross has again found itself at the center of a dispute over its fund-raising, this time to cover services after a tornado killed seven people and wrecked 400 houses last month. Worse still for the organization, the dispute occurs in the backyard of a major Congressional critic, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa. PAGE A23
 Consolidating Union Power A27
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 BLOOMBERG PONDERS FUTURE
 Shaped by Term Limits
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's political team is considering strategies that would allow him to remain in public life, perhaps by finding a way to continue in his present job, perhaps by running for governor. Meanwhile, he says he is undecided about what to do next and concerned whether whatever he does will be as satisfying as being mayor. PAGE C11 
 PATERSON DRAWS GROUPS' ANGER
 Some advocacy groups were already angry enough with Gov. David A. Paterson, accusing him at a news conference of abandoning the reform platform he had campaigned on, alongside Eliot Spitzer, in 2006. Before the event ended came word that Mr. Paterson had issued a fresh announcement about what he called a historic overhaul of state campaign finance laws. But that only made the groups angrier. PAGE C12 
 SCOOP OR PAY THE PRICE
 Each day, the 15 agents in the Sanitation Department's Canine Task Force fan out across the five boroughs to enforce one of the city's model ordinances, the ''pooper scooper'' law. Responding to increased complaints, the Sanitation Department added seven agents to the task force, and summonses this fiscal year are up about 40 percent over the same period a year before. PAGE C12 
 BUSINESS
 F.C.C. AIDE FINDS HIMSELF
 Entangled in Investigation
 As the chairman's chief of staff, Daniel Gonzalez has kept the Federal Communications Commission humming, the paper flowing and the staff vacancies filled. But a small energy company he became involved with turns out to have been fraudulent, and though there is no evidence that Mr. Gonzalez committed a crime or violated federal ethics rules, he faces the possibility of financial ruin. PAGE C1
 KEEPING IT SIMPLE AND FREE
 If you are one of those cellphone owners stymied from time to time by features, take heart. Some things are so simple, not even you can foul them up. ''All work essentially the same way,'' David Pogue writes, ''you dial an 800 number, speak your request and get the results back in a matter of seconds, usually in the form of a text message on your phone.'' PAGE C1
 OPPOSING MENTHOL CIGARETTES
 Seven former federal health secretaries are protesting the special treatment of menthol in a tobacco bill pending in Congress. As written, the legislation would ban cigarettes flavored with chocolate, strawberry and a number of other fruits, candy and spices, but allow menthol. Some see the exemption as insensitive to health concerns for blacks; three out of four black smokers pick menthol cigarettes. PAGE C1
 A DIFFERENT FILM CREDIT
 Nearly every state has instituted film tax credits in an effort to lure Hollywood -- including the state Hollywood is in. Critics say that much of the money generated by the films will end up leaving the state in the pockets of wealthy directors and movie stars. Advocates insist that the economic payoff for welcoming big feature films is huge. PAGE C3
 Pledging to Raise Crop Yields C3
 Yahoo Partnerships C8
 SPORTS
 WHAT'S THE BIG HURRY 
 For a Triple Crown?
 There are those for whom a Triple Crown winner this Saturday at the Belmont Stakes could come none too soon. After all, 10 horses have had a chance since Affirmed won it in 1978, and the thinking is that it's time. George Vecsey is not so sure. ''I've written that sentiment in the past,'' he says in Sports of The Times, ''but lately I am intrigued with the prospect of this challenge going on for a few more decades.'' PAGE C16 ONE FOR (ALMOST) EVERY FINGER
 He has been criticized as a coach whose championship teams were ''ready-made for him.'' But now Coach Phil Jackson of the Los Angeles Lakers has the chance to win a 10th NBA title, which would stand him pretty well in terms of coaching credentials. In Sports of The Times, Harvey Araton asks whether it is ''fair to say Jackson merited the roughly $10 million he earned this season, with his recently extended contract due to bump his salary up again next fall?'' PAGE C13
 OBITUARIES
 ALTON KELLEY, 67
 His psychedelic concert posters for artists like the Grateful Dead, Jimi Hendrix and Big Brother and the Holding Company helped define the visual style of the 1960s counterculture. He and his longtime collaborator, Stanley Mouse, combined sinuous Art Nouveau lettering and outre images plucked from sources near and far to create the visual equivalent of an acid trip. PAGE A28
 WILLIAM E. ODOM, 75
 A director of the National Security Agency in the Reagan administration, he became an early and outspoken opponent of the Iraq war. Mr. Odom, who also worked at the National Security Agency under President Jimmy Carter, was once described as a ''blue-ribbon hawk'' for his opposition to detente with the Soviet Union. His long military and national security career added gravitas to his warnings during the approach to the invasion of Iraq four years ago. PAGE A29
 HOME
 THERE'S STILL TIME LEFT
 To Home-Grow Tomatoes
 Perhaps you're the type who starts your own tomatoes from seeds, having worked the whole process out to an annual rite. But if you're the type who adopts your plants from someone else and then transplants, there are steps that will help ensure success. (If you're the type who buys tomatoes as faits accomplis, never mind.) PAGE D4 
 THE RISE OF DESIGN-ART
 Artists hate it, because they don't consider it art. Designers (except those selling it) hate it, because they don't think something has to be considered ''art'' to be taken seriously. But design-art, which is what auction houses call the high-priced, limited-edition furniture, is finding an audience among collectors. So, anybody for a $180,000 table? PAGE D1 
 A DIRTY JOB
 People who want to refinish their hardwood floors generally fall into one of three categories: 1. The kind skilled enough to do it themselves. 2. The kind who aren't skilled enough, but try it anyway. 3. The kind smart enough to hire a professional. Whatever the approach, it's a dirty and disruptive job. PAGE D2 
 STYLES
 HEIGHTENED SCRUTINY LEADS
 To Fewer International Adoptions
 Adoption experts say that international adoptions have become more tortuous to pursue because of child trafficking scandals, tightened rules and a shift by many countries toward more domestic adoptions. ''It's a consequence of the world paying attention to international adoptions in a way it never did before,'' said an executive with one research and advocacy organization. PAGE E1 
 HOW MUCH, DID YOU SAY?
 At the new hipster high-end clothing store Aloha Rag, on Spring and Greenwich, ''Clothes dangle from the racks on shiny metal hangers, spaced meticulously equidistant from one another, making them all look precious and expensive, which they are,'' Mike Albo writes. Expensive as in $290 for pair of white elastic-waist sweat pants. Yes. Sweat pants. PAGE E4 
 SALAD DAYS FOR THE INTERNET
 It may sound counterintuitive -- buying locally grown vegetables online -- but a number of Web sites now exist to deliver seasonal products from nearby farms to the doorsteps of customers. And it's about more than just the food, too. ''With high oil prices,'' Michelle Slatalla writes in Cyberfamilias, ''making an effort to reduce the energy costs associated with transporting food from farm to table can be a political stance.'' PAGE E2 
 Fly-Fishing Vests for Women physical E8 The Joy of Insects E7 
 ARTS
 WHEN NEIGHBORS BORROWED
 More Than Just Sugar
 It seems every decade or era gets its nostalgia wave (ah, the good old Depression) including, perhaps inexplicably, the 1970s. (Which looked back fondly at the 1950s through ''Happy Days.'') With ''That '70s Show'' now in rerunland, CBS is providing ''Swingtown,'' which Alessandra Stanley describes as ''a drama set in the 1970s that feasts on the comic decadence of the sexual revolution.'' PAGE B1 
 BACK IN BROOKLYN
 The Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater was resident at the Brooklyn Academy of Music from 1969 to 1971, but the company had not performed in a Brooklyn theater for over two decades. And maybe that partly explains the packed, wildly enthusiastic house greeting it at this week's short run at the Joyce Theater. PAGE B6
 AN OFFER NOT TO BE REFUSED
 The e-mail message came with an offer: the Police wanted to add one last show in New York City to what is billed as its last-ever tour, and it would do it as a fund-raiser for New York public television stations. So on June 14 comes a one-day pledge drive, during which $150 will secure a pair of tickets to the band's finale. PAGE B3 
 A Household's Wounds B8 
 A Playful, Complex Whirl B5 
 Imus Who? B1 
 EDITORIAL
 IT'S OVER. NOW IT BEGINS.
 The Democratic Party -- through a flawed system that needs repair -- has chosen Senator Barack Obama as its nominee. The primaries are over. It's now time to begin a debate between Mr. Obama and Senator John McCain that truly tests the mettle of the two men competing for the presidency. PAGE A30
 ZIMBABWE'S REIGN OF TERROR
 In his cynical and bloody bid to hang on to power, Zimbabwe's president, Robert Mugabe, has bet on the indifference of his neighbors and the rest of the world. So far, shamefully, he has been right. PAGE A30
 TAKE ME OUT$; TO THE BALLGAME(R)
 Looking for a way to make even more money than it already does, Major League Baseball has tried to force people to play ''fantasy'' baseball. Happily for fans and free speech, the Supreme Court tossed the MLB out of the game this week. PAGE A30
 OP-ED
 GAIL COLLINS
 The Republicans' plan for endless presidential town-hall meetings is an attempt to rescue themselves from a big problem: the only thing John McCain is good at is town-hall meetings. PAGE A31
 REMEMBERING OUR FATHER
 Forty years ago, as he was celebrating his victory in California's Democratic presidential primary, Senator Robert F. Kennedy was assassinated. The Op-Ed page has invited his children to share their memories of him. PAGE A31

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); DROUGHT (87%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); AIR FORCES (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); JUDGES (72%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (69%); BEACHES (68%); COASTAL AREAS (68%); DISASTER RELIEF (67%); CORRUPTION (66%); RIVERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) PAKISTAN (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BANGLADESH (92%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



130 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: A Town-Hall Summer

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS. 
Nicholas D. Kristof is off today.

 BODY:
John McCain wants to recreate the old Mickey Rooney-Judy Garland movies about a couple of kids putting on a show in the barn. Him and Barack, barnstorming around the country. They could fly together on the same plane! 
 ''Just two Americans running for the highest office in the greatest nation on earth!'' he said enthusiastically. 
 McCain sent Obama a letter inviting him -- negative minds might say challenging him -- to do a town-hall meeting every week from now until the end of August. He made it public at a town-hall meeting in Louisiana.
 Do you see a theme here?
 On the plus side, it's a good thing that somebody is trying to come up with a way to fill up the summer. If you think the primaries took too long, see how you like spending three months speculating about vice presidential candidates.
 But for all the talk about McCain wanting a ''higher level of discourse,'' the bottom line is that he is begging to be rescued from the big problem his campaign has encountered: which is that the only thing their candidate is good at is town-hall meetings.
 This was driven home Tuesday night when the Republicans decided to try to insert a McCain speech into the Democrats' final primary night. They were hoping to steal thunder from the moment when Obama clinched the nomination. The actual effect was to offer viewers a chance to compare the skills of the greatest orator in modern American politics with a guy who has never really learned how to read a teleprompter.
 ''I have a few years on my opponent, so I am surprised that a young man has bought into so many failed ideas,'' McCain said. Pause. Smile. McCain has only a couple of versions of smile. And for speeches, he tends to employ a kind of scary, humorless teeth-baring. 
 ''He doesn't trust us to make decisions for ourselves and wants the government to make them for us. And that's not change we can believe in.'' Pause. Smile. It was Pavlovian, really, as if some handler had run McCain through his paces over and over, administering an electric shock each time he ended a sentence without revealing his dental work.
 For the last several months, Democrats have been obsessing about the fact that they were still fighting while the opposition could campaign unencumbered. And McCain used that time to -- what? Recently, he busied himself trying to root out the most egregiously compromised lobbyists working on his campaign. This did less to remind people of his commitment to good government than it did to raise the question of how he allowed them all to get inside in the first place.
 One of the firees must have been the guy in charge of color coordination. McCain showed up Tuesday in front of a strange off-green backdrop that made his skin appear to have the tone of yellow parchment. 
 The fact that McCain's campaign operation suggests he is a dreadful manager, that his economic policy still seems to be limited to cutting federal spending on unnecessary bridges and that he seems to know only one way to communicate with the public does not mean that he is incapable of winning the election in November. The Democrats' ability to screw things up really has no limit. But it does demonstrate that there's no need for a panicky, desperate rush to clear the road for Obama's inevitable candidacy.
 The primaries took a long time, but they were fine. Everybody got a chance to vote. Obama was pressured into getting rid of his loopy pastor half a year before the general election. He uncovered some fault lines in his campaign. As he said on primary night, he is a better candidate ''for having had the honor to compete with Hillary Rodham Clinton.'' 
 Clinton's response was to act as though nothing really had changed. Her only immediate concession to reality was to drop saying ''when I am president.'' People have compared her to the guest who refuses to go home, but to the Obama-ites, she's more like the guest who shows up on the wrong night and then, resisting all hints, stands at the front door for the next six hours, casting expectant glances toward the living room. 
 She's obviously planning to quit, but she deserves the chance to do it in her own sweet time. 
 It's not surprising that Hillary was having trouble coming to grips with the fact that she lost. Every time she started to adjust, she won another big primary. The campaign felt as if it was in some kind of Bizarro world: the more she won, the farther back she fell. When she took South Dakota Tuesday night, in a big upset, the TV stations immediately announced that, thanks to South Dakota, Obama had a lock on the nomination. 
 It's nobody's fault. Barack played by the rules and did exactly what he needed to do to win. Good for him.
 This will all sort itself out. We've been through the endless debate period, and the endless primary period. Let's take a little breather before we rush into the endless town-meeting period. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICS (73%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



131 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2311 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 6, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 FASHION WORLD MOURNS LOSS
 Of the Ultimate Couturier
 As crowds lined the streets, the fashion world gathered at Saint-Roch Church in Paris, sometimes considered ''the church of artists,'' to mourn Yves Saint Laurent, who was generally regarded, as the daily newspaper Le Figaro called him, as the finest fashion designer of the last half of the 20th century. President Nicolas Sarkozy of France attended, along with many designers and celebrities. PAGE A7 
 BANKS URGED TO AID IN FOOD CRISIS
 A three-day United Nations conference on spiraling food costs concluded with delegates urging countries and financial institutions to provide more food for the world's poor and increase agriculture production to ensure adequate supplies in the future. But the final declaration sidestepped the issues of biofuel and biotechnology. PAGE A13 
 CHINA SEES DECLINE IN POLLUTANTS
 China's Ministry of Environmental Protection announced that emissions of three important pollutants declined last year, but total levels of pollution in the country's lakes, rivers and coastal waters still rose as more pollutants continued to flow into them. And the air in many Chinese cities remained severely polluted. PAGE A12 
 MYANMAR DETAINS COMEDIAN
 A comedian popular in Myanmar, U Maung Thura, who had been carrying out a private campaign to help the victims of last month's cyclone, has been detained by the police, his friends said. Private relief operations by Mr. Maung Thura and Buddhist monks, who said they were acting partly because the government was not doing enough, were widely seen in Myanmar as a rebuke to the ruling generals. PAGE A12 
 A U.N. Push on Sudan A10 
 Buddhist Monks Arrested in Tibet A7 
 NATIONAL
 ALASKAN ISOLATION 
 That Some Find Splendid
 A proposed 51-mile road would finally provide overland access to Juneau, the capital of Alaska, at a cost of nearly $400 million. But not everyone believes that being connected to the rest of North America is an entirely good thing. ''There is an insularity here,'' Mayor Bruce Botelho said, ''that I think is a net positive.'' PAGE A14
 A SLOW RETURN
 Just a handful of families have returned to the Yearning for Zion ranch, the home of a polygamist sect that was raided in West Texas in April. Others have heeded their lawyers' warnings and moved to other cities while criminal and child-abuse investigations continue. ''It will be a long ways to get back to normal,'' one resident said. But defining ''normal'' is part of what the whole dispute is about. PAGE A17
 HEARING ORDERED FOR DETAINEE
 A British judge has ordered a hearing into whether the British government must turn over evidence bearing on accusations by a prisoner at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, that he was tortured during interrogation in Morocco. The case of the prisoner, Binyam Mohamed, who is the last of 15 British citizens or residents still being held at Guantanamo, has been the source of tension between the United States and Britain. PAGE A16
 ANOTHER DISPUTED LICENSE PLATE
 South Carolina legislators have approved another vehicle license plate likely to be headed for a court challenge: a Christian cross over a stained glass window next to the phrase ''I Believe.'' Lawmakers previously allowed a ''Choose Life'' plate that has been challenged. Gov. Mark Sanford, a Republican, made a minor protest by refusing to actually sign the ''I Believe'' bill. PAGE A14
 A COMEBACK WITH MCCAIN
 In three years Carleton S. Fiorina has gone from an ousted chief executive of Hewlett-Packard to memoirist to relative self-imposed exile from public life. But now she is back on the main stage with an official title from the Republican National Committee and an unofficial one from Senator John McCain's presidential campaign: high-profile female face for a candidate whose support among women lags substantially behind that of his Democratic rivals. PAGE A18
 BUSINESS
 INQUIRY MAY PROVIDE PEEK
 Behind Bank Secrecy
 Clients of the Swiss bank UBS are running scared as American authorities intensify an investigation into offshore bank accounts that is tearing holes in the veil of secrecy surrounding tax havens like Switzerland and Liechtenstein. And it will not get better on Monday when a former UBS banker is expected to testify in court about how he helped clients evade taxes. ''He's going to sing like a parakeet,'' a former client said. PAGE C1
 EUROPE MAY RAISE INTEREST RATES
 The European Central Bank warned unexpectedly that it might raise interest rates next month to counter an inflationary spiral. Its president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said that the bank's governing council debated lifting the key rate at its meeting this week before voting to leave it at 4 percent. The Bank of England also left rates unchanged at 5 percent. The significant hardening of the tone taken by the European Central Bank reverberated through the markets, sending the euro higher against the dollar. PAGE C3
 SURPRISING SALES POSTED
 Despite falling consumer confidence and gas prices that teetered around $4 a gallon, retailers said that same-store sales for May were stronger than expected, touching off a stock market rally that lifted the main indexes nearly 2 percent. PAGE C1
 PRODUCTIVE? NOT GOOD ENOUGH.
 In today's automobile market, a manufacturer may view a less-productive plant making a hot-selling fuel-efficient car as a more valuable asset than the most productive plants whose vehicles are not selling as well. That explains why some of the most productive automotive factories are closing or losing large numbers of jobs in the industry's upheaval. PAGE C5
 SOARING RATES FOR SHIPPING
 Since mid-2006, various forces, including a shortage of ships and the seemingly unquenchable thirst by China for raw materials, has sent the world's benchmark for shipping rates soaring 365 percent. One predictable result is a hot market for ships. Another is the focusing of attention on the little-known Baltic Exchange in London, where ship brokers set the price for ferrying goods each day. PAGE C6
 Mergers Accelerate C2
 Grand Theft Rockets Sales C5
 Broadcom Founder Charged C5 
 OBITUARIES
 MATTHEW J. BRUCCOLI, 76
 His biography of F. Scott Fitzgerald and outpouring of scholarly essays and critical editions made him the dean of Fitzgerald studies in the United States. Mr. Bruccoli, who taught at the University of South Carolina for nearly 40 years, wrote more than 50 books on Fitzgerald and Ernest Hemingway. PAGE B7
 DR. OSCAR D. RATNOFF, 91
 A hematologist, he was able to isolate several of the blood proteins involved in coagulation, known as factors, and thereby helped unravel the biochemical sequence, called the waterfall sequence or waterfall cascade, that leads to effective clotting. PAGE B7
 metro
 A BRIDGE IS RENAMED,
 At Least Officially
 The Assembly voted to rename the Triborough Bridge for Robert F. Kennedy, who was elected to the United States Senate from New York in 1964 after serving his brother as attorney general. But the question is, will the name stick with New Yorkers? History suggests that the answer might be no. PAGE B3 
 BACK TO THE SENATE
 A day after Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton effectively bowed out of the race for president, many New Yorkers were unable to purge their raw sentiments about the epic Democratic primary. They seemed prepared to welcome her back to her day job, but there was also a sense among many that she has some fence-mending to do after a long and harsh campaign. PAGE B1 
 ESCAPES
 RAFTING THROUGH PREHISTORY
 On the San Juan River
 The San Juan River trickles out of the 14,000-foot San Juan Mountains in southwestern Colorado, gains muscle when it meets the Animas River, then snakes along the Utah-Arizona border before dumping into Lake Powell. And rolling past a host of almost alien-looking geological formations, cliff-top Anasazi dwellings and pristine wildlife habitat, it is something of a greatest hits album of southern Utah's attractions. PAGE F1 
 ROOMS WITH A VIEWFINDER
 Catherine Chalmers and her husband, Charles Lindsay, are among the most recent photographers drawn by the allures of Rensselaerville, N.Y., which has been attracting them since the mid-19th century. The view through the glass front walls of their hilltop home there includes a rolling expanse of former farmland, woods and a pond flanked by cattails and watercress. PAGE F1 
 A SON'S COMING OF AGE
 Sometimes the advice takes a while to sink in. Sometimes the chore seems like such a trivial thing, and you wonder why anyone would waste time worrying how it's done. And then you find yourself doing something you never thought you would do, and remembering those long-ago lessons, and wishing he were still around to see if you are doing it right. PAGE F8 
 Havens: Grayton Beach, Fla. F3 
 What's in the Well? F2 
 SPORTS
 BACK IN THE DAY,
 When Horses Were Manly
 Back in the day, some horse people are eager to point out, the likes of Secretariat, Seattle Slew and Affirmed were running fools, with a series of workouts that rarely, if ever, are seen these days. ''Horses were tougher then,'' said Patrice Wolfson, who owned Affirmed with her husband, Louis Wolfson. ''And I think horses today just don't have the stamina in many instances.'' PAGE D1
 RIDING A DREAM
 Sueno, the Spanish word for dream, is an apt word to apply to the rise of Jorge Flores, who emerged quite literally from a cast of thousands to win a tryout with Chivas USA. Even the tryout incorporated the word ''Sueno MLS.'' And so what better word to become a nickname? ''People say Jorge Flores,'' said his teammate Sasha Kljestan. ''Who? Everybody knows him as Sueno.'' PAGE D2 
 OFF-SEASON OF PAIN
 This off-season should have been filled with celebration for Abram Elam. After not getting drafted out of college, after being released twice, he latched on with the Jets in September and finished the season as a starting safety. But then he learned that a third sibling was dead, another shooting victim. His first thought? ''Not again. My mother and father have to go through this again.'' PAGE D1
 WEEKEND
 HERE HE COMES AGAIN, 
 Packing a Blow Dryer
 If you worry that the latest Adam Sandler comedy, ''You Don't Mess With the Zohan,'' might somehow be lacking in scatology, crude sexual humor and queasy homophobia, worry no more. It may also occur to you, as it did to A. O. Scott, ''that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict presents a singularly unpromising source of laughs.'' But, he goes on, ''as Yitzhak Rabin once said, enough of blood and tears.'' PAGE E1 
 PHOTOGRAPHY'S MASTERS
 ''Framing a Century: Master Photographers, 1840-1940,'' now at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, features 13 photographers to represent the formative first century of a medium so ubiquitous now. Selective? Yes, Roberta Smith writes. Limiting? No. ''Trimming photography's narrative to 13 overachievers has its merits,'' she adds. PAGE E25 
 NASA'S HOME MOVIES
 NASA has reached the half-century mark, and starting Sunday night the Discovery Channel plans to tell the tale with ''When We Left Earth.'' In his review, John Schwartz writes that the documentary is not just another recap of the parts everybody knows. The long-overlooked Gemini program is also there, along with Skylab, the first American space station. PAGE E1 
 JAZZ AVANT-GARDE
 Vision Festival, a gathering for free jazz and improvised music, takes place Tuesday through Sunday at the Clemente Soto Velez Cultural Center on the Lower East Side. With luck it will be more upbeat than last year's, which Nate Chinen says at times ''conveyed the air of a wake'' because of the recent closing of Tonic, an important performance space in the area. PAGE E6 
 SOFT SHOE WITH STAMINA
 Tony Danza surfaces yet again in ''I Could Have Danced All Night,'' which Stephen Holden calls ''one-man vaudeville in which the hyperkinetic star dashes from trick to trick hardly pausing for breath.'' The bottom line: You could find worse ways to spend your time than watching this guy. PAGE E5 
 Mahler's Haunting Ruminations E5 
 A Robbins-Chopin Partnership E3 
 Cool, Hot and Finnish E32 
 EDITORIAL
 THE TRUTH ABOUT THE WAR
 It has taken five years to finally come to a reckoning over how much the Bush administration knowingly twisted and hyped intelligence to justify the invasion of Iraq. On Thursday -- after years of Republican stonewalling -- a report by the Senate Intelligence Committee gave us as good a set of answers as we're likely to get. PAGE A20
 IT'S SO MUCH NICER ON K STREET
 The more the presidential candidates promise to rein in the rich Washington culture of influence peddling, the more voters need a reality check. The capital lobbying industry has been tracking record growth rates for the past decade. No wonder the former House speaker, Dennis Hastert, a Republican, cannot resist. PAGE A20
 OP-ED
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 The predictions of '90s technology gurus are coming true more slowly than enthusiasts expected, but their prediction that businesses would eventually have to sell the results of creative activity cheaply, or even give it away, is coming to pass. It's already happening in music, where bands are starting to depend on ancillary activities, not record sales, for their income. And it may happen to books now that e-books seem, finally, to be taking off. Bit by bit, everything that can be digitized will be digitized, making intellectual property ever easier to copy and ever harder to sell for more than a nominal price. PAGE A21
 DAVID BROOKS
 The concept of maturity has undergone several mutations over the course of American history. Over the past decades, we've seen president after president confident of his own talents but then undone by underappreciated flaws. It would be nice to have a president who had gone to school on his own failings. PAGE A21

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); RELIGION (78%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (75%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); LAKES (68%); COASTAL AREAS (67%); ELDORADO POLYGAMIST SECT (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); TORTURE (63%); EVIDENCE (60%); POLYGAMY (60%); JUDGES (60%); LAWYERS (60%); BIOFUELS (54%); AGRICULTURE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); JUNEAU, AK, USA (92%) ALASKA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (56%) CHINA (93%); MYANMAR (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TIBET (79%); MOROCCO (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CUBA (64%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



132 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: Germany Abuzz at Racy Novel Of Feminism, Sex and Hygiene

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH; Victor Homola contributed reporting from Berlin.

DATELINE: TEGERNHEIM, Germany 

 BODY:
Not many literary readings are restricted to an over-18 audience. Fewer still take place under circus tents. Yet nothing could be more appropriate for the scandalous German best-seller ''Wetlands,'' by a television personality and author, Charlotte Roche.
 With her jaunty dissection of the sex life and the private grooming habits of the novel's 18-year-old narrator, Helen Memel, Ms. Roche has turned the previously unspeakable into the national conversation in Germany. Since its debut in February, the novel (''Feuchtgebiete,'' in German) has sold more than 680,000 copies, becoming the only German book to top Amazon.com's global best-seller list.
 The book, which will be published next year in the United States, is a headlong dash through every crevice and byproduct, physical and psychological, of its narrator's body and mind. It is difficult to overstate the raunchiness of the novel, and hard to describe in a family newspaper.
 ''Wetlands'' opens in a hospital room after an intimate shaving accident. It gives a detailed topography of Helen's hemorrhoids, continues into the subject of anal intercourse and only gains momentum from there, eventually reaching avocado pits as objects of female sexual satisfaction and -- here is where the debate kicks in -- just possibly female empowerment. 
 The subject has struck a nerve here, catching a wave of popular interest in renewing the debate over women's roles and image in society.
 With its female chancellor, Angela Merkel, and progressive reputation, Germany would hardly seem to be thirsting for such a discussion. Yet, Germany has an old-fashioned tendency to expect women to choose between careers and motherhood rather than trying to accommodate both.
 Last year, another German television personality provoked a storm of controversy about the role of women by suggesting that they should stay home to raise their children, and then referring approvingly to the Nazi policy of encouraging German women to have large families. 
 Beyond the historical land mines, there are also measurable gender-equality problems in Germany, Europe's largest economy. Of the 27 European Union members, Germany is tied with Slovakia as third worst in the wage gap between men and women, with women earning 22 percent less, a figure surpassed only by Cyprus and Estonia.
 So the topic is being debated in every newspaper and magazine in Germany right now. The discussion has been amplified by two nonfiction books about young women, the more traditional ''New German Girls'' and ''We Alpha-Girls.'' 
 A provocative female rapper in Germany, Lady Bitch Ray, who runs her own independent label, Vagina Style Records, grabbed headlines when she accused Ms. Roche of stealing her explicit form of empowering raunch. ''I am what's in the book,'' said the rapper, 27, whose real name is Reyhan Sahin, in a telephone interview.
 Germans have been accused, on occasion, of overanalyzing. Sometimes a funny, dirty book is just a funny, dirty book, but not this one, according to its author. 
 Ms. Roche, 30, has long identified herself as a feminist and, in a vein first explored in 1960s-era American feminism, describes the book as a cri de coeur against the oppression of a waxed, shaved, douched and otherwise sanitized women's world. 
 Newspapers here have contrasted her unhygienic, free-spirited fictional heroine to an American-import model of womanhood: the stable of plucked, pencil-thin contestants on ''Germany's Next Top Model,'' a popular reality show hosted by the German supermodel Heidi Klum. 
 But Ms. Roche told the audience here that her inspiration for the book came not from those women, but from the feminine-product aisle of her local store. Peeking out at the audience from under dark brown bangs, speaking in a childish voice that accentuated her transgressions against propriety, Ms. Roche explained, to howls of laughter, how the lemon-scented products called out to her in uncensored terms that she was, as the commercials put it, not so fresh, or at least not fresh enough.
 ''It's not feminist in a political sense, but instead feminism of the body, that has to do with anxiety and repression and the fear that you stink, and this for me is clearly feminist, that one builds confidence with your own body,'' Ms. Roche, the mother of a young daughter and more serious in person than onstage, said last week in an interview after her reading here. 
 Ms. Roche's critics say that it is just a modern spin on not shaving your legs, this time for the genital-waxing generation. Meanwhile, sex sells and tends to grab the spotlight. As a result, a debate that might more profitably center on career counselors and day care is instead mired in old questions about sexual liberation.
 With this in mind, critics have asked what practical help a book like ''Wetlands'' can offer, and even whether, by hyper-sexualizing the main character, it represents an all-too-familiar commercial ploy rather than a step forward.
 ''The combination of pornography and feminism is old, and was already a favorite marketing strategy for Playboy in the '70s,'' said Alice Schwarzer, Germany's best-known feminist and founder of the magazine EMMA, modeled in part on Gloria Steinem's Ms. magazine, in an e-mail message responding to questions about the recent books. ''Right now we're living through another revival.''
 Those revivals come along fairly frequently -- think the porn star turned ''sex educator,'' Annie Sprinkle, Madonna and Eve Ensler of ''The Vagina Monologues'' -- with varying degrees of relevance to feminism. 
 ''When a woman breaks a taboo, it is automatically incorporated into the feminism debate, whether it really belongs there or not,'' said Ingrid Kolb, a German writer and longtime feminist. 
 While her generation in Europe and America grappled with many of the same issues in the early 1970s, there are differences, said Ms. Kolb, 67. For instance, the extremity of the beauty cult, particularly with surgery, was nowhere near what it is today.
 The notion of sexiness and sexual frankness as feminism -- pop empowerment, if you will -- is well established on both sides of the Atlantic. As in the United States, ''Sex and the City'' roared past the new ''Indiana Jones'' movie for the top spot at the German box office last weekend. 
 ''Wetlands'' is something different. It is far more anatomical and scatological than erotic. In the interview, Ms. Roche said she wrote scenes specifically to build up arousal, only to bury them again in the repulsive. Lost in the whole hubbub is also a very sad story about a young woman who has undergone family traumas, the emotional core of the novel.
 The event had something of a circus atmosphere. Some 200 fans showed up at the yellow-and-red-striped tent, paying more than $25 each to hear Ms. Roche read and answer questions. As the signing began, the song ''Rivers of Babylon'' pumped through the speakers, which, in the book, one of Helen's lovers sang as an ode to her sexual readiness. 
 Ardent fans have shown up to her readings with avocados as presents and, in several instances documented in the local media, the unprepared have fainted at some of the scenes. In one of those, Helen describes saving dried semen under her fingernails as ''a keepsake'' to savor later. And as attested by the reading in tiny Tegernheim -- a suburb of Regensburg on the Danube River, in famously conservative Bavaria -- the controversy surrounding the book is more than a media ruckus just in Berlin and other big cities.
 '' 'Sex and the City' is always just about sex, whereas this is more about hygiene, or, better put, not-hygiene. It's just something completely new,'' said Katja Bergmeister, 24, a student in Regensburg. She came with her roommate and her roommate's sister, all in their 20s and all clutching autographed posters of Ms. Roche. ''I could see how we would be able to speak more openly with one another now,'' she said.
 Ms. Bergmeister and her friends knew of Ms. Roche from her work as a presenter for music video channels, but many others said they had come to her through the book. ''It's sexuality like it's never represented in women's magazines, but more the way it is in real life,'' said Silvia Wilfurth, 28, a psychiatrist. ''It speaks to themes of the body and sexuality that normally are not addressed and that it is not bad at all to be discussed.'' 
 Ms. Roche, who was born in Britain but moved to Germany when she was a small child, said she hoped to help women find ''a language for lust.'' The sensational response to her book was unexpected, but she has taken it all in stride, including her first turn under the big top. ''I would say that my own profession is circus pony, so I feel quite comfortable,'' she said.
 Alex Bolland, the organizer of the reading, said that the local authorities had made him limit the event to an over-18 audience, but that he was still glad he could book Ms. Roche. 
 ''There are almost no taboos today,'' Mr. Bolland said. ''I appreciate it when someone can show that there are still a few out there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charlotte Roche
 Charlotte Roche at a reading of her novel, ''Wetlands,'' at the Leipzig Book Fair in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENS SCHLUETER/DDP)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); FAMILY (89%); WOMEN (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); WETLANDS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (72%); EQUAL PAY (72%); GENDER EQUALITY (70%); HEMORRHOIDS (66%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (56%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); SLOVAKIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); ESTONIA (67%); CYPRUS (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



133 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Zagat Family Says Company Is No Longer for Sale

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
Zagat Survey, publisher of the popular user-generated reviews of restaurants, hotels and other leisure businesses, has ended its effort to sell itself, the company said Thursday. 
 ''While we considered some very attractive options, given our company's strong performance and continued momentum and in light of the current economic climate, we have decided to continue to grow our business organically,'' Tim and Nina Zagat, the company's founders, said in a statement.
 The Zagats put the company up for sale in January. At the time, people briefed on the company's finances suggested that it could be valued at more than $200 million, but would-be buyers appeared to balk at the price. 
 Among early bidders were CBS, IAC/InterActiveCorp and Bruce Wasserstein's media company, people involved in the auction said.
 The company was valued at more than $100 million in 2000 when the Zagat family sold a third of it to an investor group led by General Atlantic, a private equity firm based in Greenwich, Conn.
 Begun as a hobby by the Zagats, the guide originated as a two-page list of New York restaurants with recommendations from their friends. 
 While its book business is still popular -- its Parisian restaurant guide sells more copies than France's Michelin series -- its online business, largely a paid subscription service, has been slower to catch on.
 In recent years, the company has struck a series of alliances, most recently with Facebook. Zagat content pops up on Google Maps, and Priceline.com offers rating and reviews using Zagat content.
 The company said on Thursday that it would continue to invest in its Internet and mobile products and build up licensing partnerships.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); USER GENERATED CONTENT (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (79%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%)

COMPANY: IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (70%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); PRICELINE.COM INC (54%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (70%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%); PCLN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (70%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (70%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (70%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%)

PERSON: BRUCE WASSERSTEIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



134 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Investor Optimism Gets the Upper Hand

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street surged Thursday as investors looked past a sharp rebound in oil prices and focused on better-than-expected retail sales and a decline in the number of laid-off workers seeking unemployment benefits.
 The Dow Jones industrials rose almost 214 points, posting its biggest daily point gain since April 18.
 The market got additional help from a deal by Verizon Wireless to acquire Alltel Communications for $5.9 billion in cash and the assumption of $22.2 billion in debt. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 213.97 points, or 1.73 percent, to 12,604.45.
 Broader stock indicators also advanced. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 26.85 points, or 1.95 percent, to 1,404.05, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 46.80 points, or 1.87 percent, to 2,549.94.
 Not all of Thursday's news was positive, however. Even though the Labor Department said applications for unemployment benefits declined last week by 18,000 to 357,000, its four-week average rose to a four-month high.
 Other worrisome developments included a spike of more than $5 in crude oil prices to almost $128 a barrel, a steep tumble by the dollar against the euro, rising bond yields, a record high in corn prices, and a Mortgage Bankers Association report showing that nearly 1 percent of mortgages fell into foreclosure from January to March.
 Among retailers reporting solid May results, Wal-Mart Stores said sales at stores open at least a year rose as consumers sought bargains. Wal-Mart shares rose $2.12, or 3.7 percent, to $59.80.
 Subodh Kumar, global investment strategist at Subodh Kumar & Associates. in Toronto, said the jobs figures and the Verizon Wireless deal offered investors reassurance about the health of the economy.
 ''''It looks like the U.S. is not in recession but, I would say, tepid growth,'' Mr. Kumar said.
 Bond prices fell Thursday. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 16/32, to 98 21/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 4.04 percent from 3.98 percent late Wednesday. Gold prices fell.
 The stock market appeared to be shrugging off a sharp rebound in oil prices. Light, sweet crude oil rose $5.49 at $127.79 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 The weekly jobs report came as investors continue to grapple with concerns about tightness in the credit market, the effect of still-high energy prices and a slumping housing market.
 In corporate news, Verizon Communications rose $1.98, or 5.4 percent, to $38.96 after the announcement of the Verizon Wireless deal. Verizon Wireless is a joint venture between Verizon Communications and Vodafone. Alltel was sold to TPG Capital and a unit of Goldman Sachs Group in a $27.5 billion leveraged buyout about seven months ago.
 If completed, the deal would push Verizon Wireless past AT&T to become the biggest operator in the United States.
 Continental Airlines rose 70 cents, or 4.8 percent, to $15.20 after announcing plans to cut 3,000 jobs and reduce its capacity in the fourth quarter by 11 percent as it grapples with surging jet fuel prices. 
 Wal-Mart said its May same-store sales rose 4.4 percent and its stock rose $2.12, or 3.7 percent, to $59.80.
 The stock market initially pulled back a bit after the ratings agency Standard & Poor's downgraded the bond insurers Ambac and MBIA. 
 Ambac rose 13 cents, or 5.2 percent, to $2.62, and MBIA rose 41 cents, or 7.3 percent, to $6.04.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
FREDDIE MAC YIELDS: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
 Charts detail daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); GRAIN MARKETS (76%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); EURO (71%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (71%); FORECLOSURE (70%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); MORTGAGE BANKING (65%); JOINT VENTURES (50%)

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (94%); ALLTEL CORP (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%); TPG CAPITAL LP (50%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (54%); VZC (LSE) (50%); VZ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (94%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



135 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Zimbabwe Tells All Aid Groups To Halt Efforts

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER; Neil MacFarquhar contributed reporting from the United Nations, and Graham Bowley from New York.

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
Zimbabwe's government has ordered all humanitarian aid groups to suspend their operations in the deeply impoverished nation, a prohibition that relief agencies estimate will deprive two million people of food aid and other basic assistance.
 The government had already barred CARE, one of the world's largest aid groups, from providing humanitarian aid in the country, accusing it of siding with the political opposition before a presidential runoff this month. 
 But Nicholas Goche, Zimbabwe's social welfare minister, greatly expanded the ban this week, applying it to all nongovernmental organizations working in a country where the economy is in shambles, unemployment has surpassed 80 percent and people are locked in an increasingly desperate struggle to survive.
 As news of the government's decision leaked out Thursday, the police detained American and British diplomats investigating political violence north of the capital and released them only after a harrowing ordeal that included a six-mile car chase and threats to burn the diplomats alive in their vehicle, American officials said. 
 The rough treatment signaled a further escalation of a campaign of intimidation and violence that governing party insiders say is being coordinated by President Robert Mugabe and a small clique of police, intelligence and military officials intent on winning the runoff and extending their 28 years in power.
 Aid workers and human rights groups say the suspension of humanitarian operations and the detention of the diplomats are part of the governing party's strategy to clear the countryside of witnesses to its brutal efforts to decimate the political opposition and drive its supporters out of the wards in which they are eligible to vote.
 ZANU-PF, the governing party, is clearly determined to go ahead with the runoff in the hope of preserving a veneer of legitimacy for a government that is increasingly viewed internationally as a pariah, and the party is trying to win it at any cost, Zimbabwean political analysts say.
 At an emergency meeting on Thursday in Harare, the capital, United Nations agencies and aid groups agreed to protest the suspension and issue a statement about its humanitarian implications, according to the minutes of the meeting. The nongovernmental organizations there worried about the safety of their field staff once the prohibition order reaches local administrators across the country.
 The list of targets for state-sponsored intimidation in Zimbabwe just keeps getting longer. First and foremost, it includes opposition officials and supporters, but also takes aim at civic leaders, trade unionists, election monitors, journalists, human rights lawyers, teachers, churchgoers -- and now aid workers and diplomats. 
 The American ambassador to Zimbabwe, James D. McGee, said the police tried to run the American diplomats off the road during a six-mile chase, then slashed the tires of their S.U.V. at a roadblock. War veterans, the often violent agents of the state, subsequently threatened to set fire to the Americans' vehicle with them inside, and tried to bash in the windows with their rifle butts. A Zimbabwean driver who brought the embassy's security officer to the scene was hauled from the car, beaten and tossed in a ditch, Mr. McGee said.
 The decision to chase the diplomats and hold them for hours was sanctioned by Augustine Chihuri, the country's powerful police commissioner, Mr. McGee said. And it was intended to intimidate diplomats who have been documenting the brutal beatings of supporters of Zimbabwe's political opposition ahead of the runoff, he contended. 
 ''The bottom line is this: Zimbabwe is a lawless country,'' said Mr. McGee, who was not on the trip on Thursday but was briefly detained at a roadblock last month on another investigative trip. ''The government is trying to intimidate diplomats from traveling to the countryside in order to witness the violence.''
 A police spokesman, Wayne Bvudzijena, denied that the diplomats had been threatened and told The Associated Press that the police were only trying to rescue them from a mob. ''It's unfortunate when diplomats behave like criminals and distort information,'' he said.
 The detention of the American diplomats, and four British officials who arrived at the roadblock a couple of hours later, came a day after the police in another province, Matabeleland, detained the opposition presidential candidate, Morgan Tsvangirai, for nine hours and seized the armored vehicle his party says is necessary for his security. Mr. Tsvangirai was viciously beaten by the police in a crackdown last year. Party officials said the police accused Mr. Tsvangirai on Wednesday of addressing a rally without their permission. Mr. Tsvangirai resumed campaigning on Thursday.
 A State Department spokesman, Sean McCormack, said the detention of the diplomats was ''a case of the kind of repression and violence this government is willing to use against its own people.'' And a White House spokeswoman, Dana Perino, said that the episode ''won't be forgotten.'' 
 Britain's deputy permanent representative to the United Nations, Karen Pierce, said in an interview that the treatment of the diplomats was ''symptomatic in a small way of much wider intimidation and violence that ordinary Zimbabweans are experiencing in the run-up to the elections.''
 Opposition officials have voiced deep disappointment that regional intervention to halt the violence before the runoff, now only three weeks away, has been weak and tardy. Marie Okabe, a United Nations spokeswoman, said Mr. Mugabe agreed to receive a senior United Nations official, Haile Menkarious, after meeting on Tuesday with the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, in Rome. Mr. Ban highlighted the need to stop the violence, she said.
 Mr. McGee, who has been accused by Mr. Mugabe of meddling in the country's affairs and has been threatened with expulsion, said Thursday's episode began as American and British diplomats met with opposition figures in a slum in Bindura, in Mashonaland Central Province. The police approached the diplomats and asked them to go to the station. 
 The senior American diplomat on the trip, Lt. Col. Ryan McMullen, the defense attache, then got on his cellphone with Mr. McGee, who told him to get the American team back into the two vehicles and head home to Harare. Mr. McGee said it was unlawful under diplomatic protocols for officials who are breaking no laws to be taken to a local police station for questioning.
 ''This is where it gets interesting,'' Mr. McGee said later in an interview.
 One of the two cars carrying the Americans took a route along back roads and evaded the police. The British went yet another way. And the third car, a Toyota Land Cruiser carrying Colonel McMullen, went on the main road. The police followed the Toyota. 
 It turned into a chase. The police tried to force the Toyota off the road, driving up beside it and almost sideswiping it, Mr. McGee said. Ultimately, though, the Toyota was forced to stop at a roadblock because of spikes that would have blown out the tires. The police quickly slashed all four tires anyway, he said.
 It was about 11 or 11:30 a.m. The three Americans and two Zimbabweans in the car were ordered to get out. ''My people said, 'That's just not going to happen,''' Mr. McGee said.
 Then two riot vehicles loaded with 17 soldiers pulled up and blocked in the Americans' car.
 ''It gets worse,'' Mr. McGee said.
 About a dozen war veterans appeared. ''They threatened to burn people alive in the vehicle ifthey don't get out,'' he said. ''They tried to forcefully remove them, tried to smash the windows with their rifles.'' 
 Mr. McGee had dispatched the embassy security officer and another accredited diplomat. When they arrived on the scene about 1:30 p.m., the security officer got out of his car, but the police grabbed him, took his radio and physically held him, Mr. McGee said. 
 In the meantime, Mr. McGee said the Foreign Ministry's protocol section refused to take his calls.
 Back at the roadblock, the governor of the province had arrived. ''Instead of trying to defuse the situation, he started to berate my people.'' Mr. McGee said. 
 Finally, about 4:30, the diplomats were released. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); ARSON (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); VANDALISM (69%); ELECTION MONITORING (68%); FIRES (67%); VETERANS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (79%) ZIMBABWE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



136 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: A Rising Tide of Mortgage Defaults, Not All on Risky Loans

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
About 1 in 11 American mortgages were past due or in foreclosure at the end of March, according to a report released on Thursday, a figure that is rising fast as home prices fall and the job market weakens.
 The first three months of 2008 marked the worst quarter for American homeowners in nearly three decades, according to the report, issued by the Mortgage Bankers Association. The rate of new foreclosures and past-due payments surged to their highest level since 1979, when the group first started collecting the data.
 All told, about 8.8 percent of home loans were past due or in foreclosure, or about 4.8 million loans. That is up from 7.9 percent at the end of December. (About a third of American homeowners do not have mortgages.) 
 Delinquency and foreclosure rates started rising from historically low levels in late 2006 and have picked up speed in nearly every quarter since. Analysts say at first past due mortgages represented mostly high-risk loans made to borrowers with blemished, or subprime, credit. Now, as the economy has weakened and home prices have fallen in many parts of the country, homeowners with better loans are also falling behind.
 Economists worry that a big loss of jobs in the coming months could drive default rates much higher. The Labor Department will release its report on the job market for May on Friday.
 ''It's not going to help the housing market out at all if you have a loss of jobs,'' said John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Investors Service. ''When employment's contracting, that makes it all the more difficult to sell your home at an attractive price.''
 Though defaults are rising in many places, it is worst in areas where home prices soared in recent years or where the local economy is now struggling. 
 California and Florida, for instance, accounted for nearly a third of all mortgages that were in foreclosure or 90 days delinquent. Home prices, construction and mortgage lending were particularly ebullient in those states earlier this decade. The housing industry accounted for a bigger portion of their economies during the boom. 
 ''The problems in California and Florida are extraordinary, and they are the main drivers of the national trend,'' said Jay Brinkmann, vice president for research and economics at the Mortgage Bankers Association.
 Midwestern states like Michigan and Ohio, where home prices did not soar, are suffering mostly from the loss of manufacturing jobs and high-risk loans. Default rates in those states appear to have leveled off in the last few months, which may be an early hopeful sign. 
 About 9.7 percent of loans in five Midwestern states were past due or in foreclosure in the first quarter, down from 10.5 in the fourth quarter.
 ''This decade has been brutal on the industrial economies of the United States,'' said Michael D. Youngblood, a mortgage analyst at Friedman, Billings, Ramsey. But ''the rate of labor market deterioration in these depressed cities is significantly slowing.''
 Michigan, Indiana and Ohio are still among the five states with the highest default rates. The other two states in that list are Florida and Mississippi.
 Defaults are highest for adjustable-rate mortgages -- loans that promised a low, fixed-interest rate for the first few years. But people who took out such mortgages are falling behind even before those loans reset to a higher adjustable rate. Analysts say that reflects the fact that those mortgages were popular among investors, buyers who made small or no down payments, and those who did not provide proof of their incomes.
 Falling home prices are also contributing greatly to foreclosures. Homeowners who owe more on their loan than their homes are worth are more likely to default if they encounter financial distress, said Robert Van Order, an adjunct finance professor at the University of Michigan.
 In past housing downturns like the one in the early 1990s, he said, housing prices did not fall nationwide and even in local markets they fell much more slowly. So far, home prices have fallen about 16 percent from their peak in the summer of 2006, according to the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller index. Economists at Lehman Brothers expect the decline to bottom at 25 percent.
 ''What that means now is people don't have that equity cushion as they get into trouble,'' said Mr. Van Order, who was once chief economist at Freddie Mac. ''The incentive to beg, borrow and steal is not there.''
 By many measures the job market is not falling apart; the unemployment rate was 5 percent in April. But these are challenging times even for those who have not lost jobs with gas prices at $4 a gallon, economists said.
 ''Wage increases are not keeping pace with inflation,'' said Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group. ''That really puts a lot of pressure on households to make some very serious financial decisions.''
 The surge in defaults has been challenging for mortgage servicing companies, which find it hard to keep up with the growing backlog of loans awaiting foreclosure, analysts say.
 Some mortgage servicing firms appear to be holding off because lawmakers in Congress are talking about a plan to refinance up to $300 billion in loans using the Federal Housing Administration, Mr. Youngblood said. The discussions are ''giving servicers hope of a better solution for many borrowers,'' he said.
 In states like California and Florida where they have huge inventories of repossessed homes, some companies are starting to move a little faster by auctioning off properties, Mr. Youngblood and others say. In some markets like Las Vegas about half the homes sold in recent months had been in foreclosure.
 Dean Williams, chief executive of the auction firm Williams & Williams, said mortgage companies are most eager to hire his firm in markets that have a ''rapidly and constantly increasing pile up'' of homes.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A chart on June 6 with an article about the rising rate of foreclosures and overdue mortgage payments had incorrect rates for some states in some editions. Seven states -- Arizona, California, Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Mississippi and Rhode Island -- had delinquency rates of 4 to 5 percent, not 5 to 6 percent. Two states, Indiana and Ohio, had delinquency rates of 5 to 6 percent, not over 6 percent. A corrected version can be found at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A home in Stockton, Calif., is one of the many in foreclosure in that state.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)
 Sharlita Thomas and many other people filled out paperwork during a workshop aimed at helping thousands of homeowners facing foreclosure in the Pittsburgh area.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAM PANCHAK/PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C4) CHART: Where Homeowners Are in the Worst Trouble: In the first quarter of 2008, the highest share of mortgages that were seriously delinquent -- 90 days or more past due or in foreclosure -- were concentrated in three areas of the country.(Source: Mortgage Bankers Association)(pg. C4) Chart details PERCENT OF MORTGAGES SERIOUSLY DELINQUENT and SERIOUSLY DELINQUENT MORTGAGES BY TYPE. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); TRENDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



137 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Doubts About 'Clean Coal'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Mounting Costs Slow the Push for Clean Coal'' (''The Energy Challenge'' series, front page, May 30) describes the challenges facing the push for ''carbon capture and sequestration,'' the idea of burying global warming pollution from coal-fired power plants. 
 In Appalachia, many of us dismiss so-called clean coal as the latest in a century of broken promises by the coal industry. Where the industry promised economic prosperity, we have some of the poorest counties in America. Where it promised responsible mining, we have a landscape and culture decimated by mountaintop removal. This industry has shown a blatant disregard for environmental and safety laws.
 Holding out the possibility of a distant new technology has served this industry well. Meanwhile, over the past year, coal has doubled in price as American companies have shipped more and more overseas.
 Meanwhile, wind can't be exported, and the price of the sun never goes up.
 Mary Anne Hitt Boone, N.C., May 30, 2008
 The writer is executive director of Appalachian Voices, an environmental organization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (91%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COAL MINING (78%); SURFACE MINING (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); COAL INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (71%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (57%); GLOBAL WARMING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



138 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 423 words

 BODY:
HIGHER PRICES, FEWER CHOICES Many airlines have decided that less is more; for passengers, it means cheap and plentiful flights are slipping away. 
 EXECUTIVE INDICTED Henry T. Nicholas III, below, the co-founder and former chief executive of the chip maker Broadcom, was charged with drug violations and securities fraud that forced Broadcom to take a $2.2 billion write-down. [C1.] 
 HOUSING CRISIS WORSENS The first three months of 2008 were the worst quarter for American homeowners in nearly 25 years, according to a new report. [C1.]
 Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey said he saw mortgage fraud as a serious problem, but he rejected the notion of creating a national task force to combat the issue. [C4.]
 TAX SHELTER SCRUTINY Under pressure from federal authorities, UBS is considering whether to divulge the names of up to 20,000 of its well-heeled American clients. [C1.]
 STRONG SALES Discount retailers fared well in May as price-conscious customers spent tax rebate checks on groceries, gasoline and off-price clothing. [C1.]
 ONE-SHOT ADS Live TV ads are making a comeback in the United States, as marketers make an effort to reach people who normally fast-forward through commercials. Advertising. [C2.]
 TELECOM MERGER BID France Telecom offered to buy TeliaSonera, a Swedish-Finnish telecommunications operator, for $42 billion in cash and stock. [C2.]
 INFLATION WORRIES The European Central Bank and the Bank of England left their interest rates unchanged. [C3.]
 SOWING THE SEEDS Two Federal Reserve Bank presidents said the central bank's decision to lend to securities firms might lead to further financial crises. [C3.]
 QUICK EXIT Differing accounts of the departure of Jane Friedman, the chief executive of HarperCollins Publishers Worldwide, suggest that she may have been pushed out. [C3.]
 NEWSPAPER REDUCTIONS The Tribune Company revealed plans to cut costs by trimming the content of its papers. [C3.]
 CLOSING PLANTS Detroit automakers are planning to cut back or close some of the most productive automobile factories. [C5.]
 NOT FOR SALE Faced with potential buyers who appeared to balk at the price, the owners of Zagat Survey took the company off the auction block. [C6.]
 A CHALLENGE Take-Two Interactive said the performance of Grand Theft Auto IV demonstrated that Electronic Arts' $2 billion takeover offer was too low. [C5.]
 CARGO RATES RISE Since mid-2006, the world's benchmark for shipping rates has surged 365 percent, which has attracted the interest of investment banks and hedge funds. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (87%); SALES FIGURES (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); INFLATION (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); VEHICLE THEFT (77%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); MERGERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); LARCENY & THEFT (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); TAKEOVERS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CLOSINGS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); TAX RELIEF (69%); RETAILERS (68%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); BROADCOM CORP (58%); TELIASONERA AB (55%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (53%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (52%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (93%); FTE (NYSE) (93%); FTE (BIT) (93%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (58%); TLSN (STO) (55%); TLS1V (HEL) (55%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (52%); EA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MUKASEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FINLAND (71%); EUROPE (69%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



139 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: In Juneau, Firm Resistance to a Road Out of Isolation

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: JUNEAU, Alaska 

 BODY:
The proposed 51-mile Juneau Access Road would provide something this remote capital city has never had: an overland route to the rest of North America. No longer would people have to take a ferry or a flight.
 Yet beyond the political and environmental fight that will determine whether the nearly $400 million road will ever be built, there is a central question: What would the improved access change the most, Juneau or outsiders' perceptions of it?
 ''There is an insularity here,'' Mayor Bruce Botelho said, ''that I think is a net positive.''
 Would the road rouse Juneau residents to emerge from their rainforest isolation and engage the rest of Alaska? 
 Would it help people in Anchorage, the state's economic and population center, finally accept Juneau as the state capital, because they would be able to drive there -- even if it took two days?
 And is there such a thing as too much access? Caravans of recreational vehicles clogging Juneau's steep and narrow streets might add more tension in a town already uncomfortable with its dependence on the million or so cruise ship passengers who drop in for a few hours each summer.
 ''I want to keep Alaska the way it is,'' said Greg Lutton, 38, waiting to catch a ferry last month in Auke Bay, north of downtown. ''I'll move down south if I want that kind of stuff.''
 But in a city where declines in logging and fishing have driven workers away, where lawmakers regularly mull moving the capital to a more central location, many residents also say the potential changes are worth it, for the sake of improving regional relations and connectivity.
 ''We're losing our younger generations,'' said Richard Knapp, who first started trying to build the road in 1984, when he became Alaska's commissioner of transportation. ''Opportunities are limited here, and there's nothing to do.''
 The new road would start where the old one ends now, at Berners Bay, a recreational jewel north of Juneau, and follow the shoreline of the steep and pristine fjord that is Lynn Canal toward the cities of Skagway and Haines, where highways connect to Canada and eventually northern Alaska and the Lower 48. 
 This month, the Army Corps of Engineers is expected to approve a permit to begin final design and initial construction.
 About $112 million in federal money has been designated for the project, and last month the Environmental Protection Agency said it would allow the project to go forward.
 Yet like so many ambitious Alaska proposals that have been cast as critical to economic development, the Juneau Access Road may have federal approval but it does not necessarily have a public mandate. Legal challenges have piled up.
 In the years since Mr. Knapp first pushed for the project, local environmentalists have become far better organized in their opposition. While the previous governor, Frank H. Murkowski, a Republican, supported the road, the current one, Sarah Palin, also a Republican, has said it is not a priority given that pending environmental lawsuits could potentially bring construction to a halt. 
 ''The most fiscally conservative thing to do is wait for all the litigation to conclude and see if the project is even possible,'' said Sharon Leighow, a spokeswoman for the governor. ''This could end up going absolutely nowhere.''
 State transportation officials say they will follow the governor's lead and wait, for now. 
 The road reveals strong divisions among residents here, with surveys and advisory votes showing a near-even split among them over whether to improve the state ferry system or build a new road. Up in Haines and Skagway, residents are more likely to oppose the road.
 Some Juneau residents echo arguments made by opponents in lawsuits, saying that the road poses an environmental threat as well as a daunting engineering challenge and will prove much more expensive than is projected. While the steepness of the terrain is expected to make construction extremely complicated (a video opposing the route, ''Steep, Not Cheap,'' is on YouTube) engineers also say the threat of avalanches would keep the road closed for about 34 days per year.
 ''They don't know what they're getting into; it's straight up,'' said Mike Fischer, as he stepped off a boat after bear hunting last month north of Echo Cove in Berners Bay, where the road would begin. ''It ain't happening. They can't do it.''
 At this, Mr. Fischer's friend and fellow hunter, Ken Kreitzer, interrupted.
 ''He's a 'cave' person,'' Mr. Kreitzer said of Mr. Fischer. ''You know what a 'cave' person is? It's a citizen against virtually everything.'' 
 Mr. Kreitzer took up the opposing view. ''If you get a road in, then a lot of the excuses for moving the capital go away,'' he said. ''People that don't want it now, I bet they'd use it all the time once it was there. The people who love the outdoors would love it, the access. I'd drive as far as I could.''
 Mr. Fischer returned fire: ''Nobody can afford to drive anymore anyway.'' He added: ''Besides, you can drive here. You just have to get on a ferry first.''
 In fact, the proposed project includes a 30-minute shuttle ferry to cover the final few miles, a point opponents seize upon to question the road's value. (Current ferry trips to Skagway or nearby Haines can take two and a half to four hours and sometimes much more.)
 State transportation planners say the road would eventually prove cheaper than maintaining the ferry system, that it would free drivers from sometimes erratic ferry runs and that it would save drivers' money. A family that takes a car on the ferry to Haines or Skagway currently might pay close to $200. 
 Critics say transportation officials are emotionally attached to the long-planned road. 
 ''A better way of putting it would be that D.O.T. is both professionally and emotionally attached to improving transportation in Southeast Alaska,'' said Reuben Yost, the road's project manager for the Alaska Department of Transportation and Special Facilities. ''I mean, most people don't even question should we have a road to our town?''
 But this town is different.
 ''A direct road access would change the fundamental character of Juneau,'' Mayor Botelho said.
 Still, while he opposes a land link, he also knows the allure it has held for many others. He referred to an old local newspaper clipping that promised a new railroad connection to Juneau, with the financing already lined up. The paper was published in 1917. The railroad was never built.
 ''The idea of a connection has been around for nearly a century,'' Mr. Botelho said. ''It's not likely to go away.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Queen, chief purser for the Alaska Marine Highway ferry Malaspina, which links Juneau to Haines and Skagway. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL PENN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Near the end of the road in Juneau, left. The proposed 51-mile access road would start where the old one leaves off, at Berners Bay, and follow the shoreline of the Lynn Canal, center. Right, protesters at a public hearing on the road in 2005. About $112 million in federal money has been designated for the project. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEFT, CENTER, MICHAEL PENN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RIGHT, BRIAN WALLACE/JUNEAU EMPIRE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAP: The road would connect Juneau to Skagway and Haines. Map of Juneau in Alaska. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (90%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); MAYORS (75%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); RAIN FORESTS (69%); CRUISES (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (52%); ARMIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (96%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



140 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Big Airlines In a Rush To Go Small

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Mary M. Chapman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In the three decades since deregulation, the nation's major airlines have operated with a simple strategy that bigger was better, and that the way to win the industry dogfight was to fly more planes on more routes to attract the most passengers.
 Now, with fuel prices almost double the level of a year ago, many big airlines have decided that less is more, and they are shrinking in a hurry. 
 Continental was the latest carrier to announce cuts, saying on Thursday that it would ground 67 planes. In all, airlines in the United States have announced plans since March to park more than 200 aircraft, from regional jets to big Boeing 747s, representing more than 10 percent of the major airlines' fleet.
 As they cut costs, they are also raising ticket prices and imposing new surcharges and fees to help offset soaring fuel costs. Air fares over all are up 16 percent this year, for coach tickets bought in advance, according to Harrell Associates, an industry consulting firm.
 For passengers, it all means a system that made flights cheap and plentiful is slipping away. ''Air travel will be less democratic from here on out,'' said Tim Winship, an editor of SmarterTravel.com, a Web site offering travel advice.
 Already, fewer Americans are flying. The soft economy is a factor, of course, but so are higher fares and the inconveniences of flying.
 The Air Transport Association, the industry's lobbying group, predicts 2.7 million fewer people will fly this summer than in 2007. 
 Industry executives say they can no longer provide the cheaper fares that made air travel an attractive substitute for car trips.
 Even Southwest Airlines -- which has long used the marketing slogan ''You are now free to move about the country'' -- has eliminated its self-imposed cap of charging no more than $299 for any one-way flight. Now it charges close to $400 each way on some routes.
 And this year, half a dozen smaller carriers, some of which offered low fares, have gone out of business or filed for bankruptcy.
 ''Higher fuel prices at the end of the day need to be reflected in our ticket prices,'' said Edward H. Bastian, president and chief financial officer at Delta Air Lines.
 Mr. Bastian said he was sympathetic to passengers' complaints about higher fares, fuel surcharges and fees, like the new $25 charges imposed last month by Delta and many airlines to check a second bag. (American plans to add a $15 fee for the first bag for many passengers on June 15.)
 ''Our goal is not to take it out on the customers,'' Mr. Bastian said. ''Our goal is to be able to provide a more stable and better product, albeit at a somewhat higher price.''
 Even some union leaders agree that prices need to rise, but say industry officials should have foreseen the impact of higher fuel costs.
 ''It's management's failure to prepare for the future,'' said Robert Roach Jr., general vice president of transportation for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, which represents workers at several airlines.
 Mr. Roach has long been an advocate for government intervention to set ticket prices that would allow airlines to make money and avoid cutting more jobs. Since March, airlines have said they would eliminate nearly 5,000 jobs on top of more than 100,000 they have already cut this decade.
 Airlines for the most part have tried to preserve their flying schedules for the summer, the busiest and most profitable time of the year. 
 American, though, is dropping its daily flight from Kennedy Airport to Stansted Airport outside London as of July 2, and will eliminate flights from Chicago to Buenos Aires and Honolulu. Cuts are expected to spread after Labor Day, as airlines speed up retirement of inefficient planes, cut flights and eliminate service to some cities altogether. 
 Continental is cutting 3,000 jobs, although officials said they hoped most of those cuts would involve voluntary departures by employees.
 Brian Bagenski, a spokesman for the Air Line Pilots Association, which represents pilots at Continental, said the union was ''pretty darned disappointed in the news.'' He added, ''Our concern is to protect jobs and find out how to mitigate effects on pilots and families.''
 The impact on passengers, however, will be clear. They can expect to pay more for fewer choices -- the industry's new norm. 
 ''The picture going forward for travelers is pretty grim,'' said Mr. Winship of SmarterTravel.com. ''There are going to be fewer flights since ticket prices will be significantly higher. From a service and comfort standpoint, consumers won't be getting more for their money. If anything, less.'' 
 Even with these steps, however, industry analysts say fuel prices are racing ahead of airlines' ability to cut costs and raise fares. Jamie Baker, an analyst with JPMorgan, said airlines could lose a collective $7.2 billion this year if fuel prices stay at current levels or rise further.
 That is raising fears of another round of bankruptcy filings. 
 To be sure, nobody in the industry expects any of the major carriers to go away, although the outlook for smaller airlines is less certain.
 For its part, Delta, which announced a merger with Northwest in April, is looking for more places to save. The two airlines, which originally expected to cost cuts of about $1 billion, now expect to cut ''significantly in excess'' of that amount, Mr. Bastian said. An announcement is due next month.
 But airlines cannot cut everything and expect passengers to endure the result, said Mr. Roach, the union official. 
 ''The flying public will be inconvenienced, and the employees will suffer because the public doesn't like what they're finding,'' he said. ''This just doesn't do well for the image of the industry.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Continental Airlines agents and passengers at the Los Angeles airport. Continental said on Thursday it would ground 67 planes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID McNEW/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); AIR FARES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); TICKET SALES (73%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (50%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (74%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); BOEING CO (58%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (54%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (74%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



141 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Two Fed Bank Presidents Warn About Lending to Securities Firms

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Two Federal Reserve Bank presidents warned in separate speeches on Thursday that the central bank's decision in March to lend to securities firms might sow the seeds of further financial crises.
 Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank in Richmond, Va., said in a speech to the European Economics and Financial Center in London that ''the effect of the recent credit extension on the incentives of financial market participants might induce greater risk-taking.'' That, in turn, ''could give rise to more frequent crises,'' he said.
 In a separate speech on Thursday, the Philadelphia Fed president, Charles I. Plosser, urged that officials specify the conditions ''under which the central bank will lend'' to firms. He told reporters in New York afterward that ''we run the risk of sowing the seeds of the next crisis.'' 
 Mr. Lacker urged that the central bank ''clearly'' set boundaries for its help to financial markets. In an interview Wednesday on the themes of his speech, Mr. Lacker said that even those new boundaries might not be believed by investors unless a financial firm failed ''in a costly way.''
 Together, the remarks amounted to a strong warning about the consequences of the Fed's aid to securities dealers, the first lending to nonbanks since the Great Depression. While other regulators have focused on tightening investment bank oversight in exchange for the lending, Mr. Lacker said there was a case for scaling back the new programs.
 Thomas M. Hoenig, president of the Kansas City Fed, said last month that the Fed's actions were ''likely to weaken market discipline,'' while Gary H. Stern, president of the Minneapolis Fed, worried in April about ''adequate incentives to contain'' an expansion in the Fed's safety net.
 Mr. Lacker, 52, heads a district that is home to Bank of America and Wachovia, two of the four biggest American banks. A former head of research at the Richmond Fed, he alone dissented in interest-rate votes at the Fed in late 2006, wanting to continue raising them to stem inflation.
 Shares of Lehman Brothers Holdings, which has access to the Fed's lending window, fell to an intraday low of $31.71 after Mr. Lacker's remarks, before closing at $33.85, up $2.45. Mr. Lacker did not discuss any firm other than Bear Stearns.
 ''Establishing a new set of boundaries for central bank lending is a high priority,'' Mr. Lacker said in the interview Wednesday. ''You would expect that'' the limits ''aren't going to be credible unless we let somebody fail in a costly way that is beyond that scope.''
 In Congressional testimony on Thursday, the Fed vice chairman, Donald L. Kohn, said that banks would probably report ''weak earnings'' and ''may likely face the need to further bolster loan-loss reserves.'' In a speech last week, he raised the possibility of giving securities dealers permanent access to the Fed, as long as regulators toughened their supervision.
 The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and the New York Fed's president, Timothy F. Geithner, defended the central bank's rescue of Bear Stearns in a Congressional hearing in April, contending that the firm's failure would have cascaded through the financial system.
 Mr. Lacker said that a case could be made for intervention to stem panic-driven runs on financial institutions, but added that he did not see a case for action when a crisis was unavoidable based on a deteriorating credit or business plan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charles Plosser, left, president of the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank, and Jeffrey Lacker, president of the Richmond Fed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE MERGEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KLEPONIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); TESTIMONY (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (74%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (74%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (74%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) VIRGINIA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



142 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Mukasey Declines to Create a U.S. Task Force to Investigate Mortgage Fraud

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey rejected on Thursday the idea of creating a national task force to combat the country's mortgage fraud crisis, calling the problem a localized one akin to ''white-collar street crimes.''
 Mr. Mukasey made clear that he saw the mortgage fraud problem at the root of the nation's housing crisis as a serious one. But he said he was confident that the Justice Department's current approach -- using local prosecutors' offices around the country to oversee separate F.B.I. investigations -- was adequate. 
 Since he took over as attorney general last November, Mr. Mukasey has grappled with how best to deal with the law enforcement side of the growing housing crisis. He said in March, for instance, that the Justice Department was still struggling to determine whether there was a ''larger criminal story'' behind the housing crisis.
 He gave his most definitive answer on Thursday in a briefing for reporters, saying that he did not think that the kind of national task force created at the Justice Department in 2002 to investigate the collapse of Enron was ''the proper response'' to the current crisis. 
 Some critics have called for the same sort of broad federal law enforcement response seen in the Enron case and a wave of other corporate scandals earlier this decade, or in the collapse of the savings and loan industry in the 1980s and 1990s. 
 ''This is disappointing,'' Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who leads the House financial services committee, said in an interview about Mr. Mukasey's remarks. 
 Calling the mortgage crisis, ''worse than Enron,'' Mr. Frank said, ''Enron didn't cause a worldwide recession. This has more innocent victims.''
 Mr. Frank noted that a $2.4 billion bill to prevent mortgage foreclosure, which has already passed the House, includes a provision backed by Republicans to provide an additional $300 million for law enforcement officials to fight mortgage fraud. He questioned how that money could be spent without a more centralized effort. 
 But administration officials maintain that they are aggressively investigating fraud allegations growing out of the housing crisis, with or without a national task force to coordinate the effort. 
 The Federal Bureau of Investigation is investigating 19 major corporate fraud cases related to the mortgage crisis. The targets of most of those investigations have not been disclosed. In addition, the F.B.I. has 1,380 small mortgage fraud investigations now open in field offices around the country, a sharp increase over previous years, officials said.
 Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who leads the Senate banking committee, said Mr. Mukasey's comments suggested that the administration ''vastly underestimates the scope of this problem.'' 
 Mr. Dodd said in a statement that ''millions of borrowers were lured into mortgages they could not afford by unscrupulous lenders and brokers, resulting in a housing crisis that has affected neighborhoods across America. The administration ought to be aggressively pursuing the perpetrators of these abusive practices.''
 John C. Coffee, a professor at Columbia Law School who specializes in corporate law, said that so far, the office of the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, appeared to have adopted a more aggressive approach to investigating possible mortgage fraud by major Wall Street firms than have his federal counterparts. 
 ''One area the attorney general should be concerned about is securities fraud at the core of our investment banking system,'' Professor Coffee said. ''The allegation that deserves attention is that these firms were knowingly packaging these securities with the knowledge that the quality of the collateral had materially deteriorated without disclosing that change.'' 
 The practice, he added, appears to reflect ''a systemic problem, with the red lights blinking.''
 Mr. Mukasey, in his comments to reporters, acknowledged that particular markets had problems at almost every stage of the housing process. Mortgage holders were not told the true terms of their loans, homes were overvalued, and investment firms put together mortgage-backed securities packages in ways that inflated their true value. 
 ''That has happened over and over again,'' Mr. Mukasey said of the problems. ''Someone that I met with characterized it as white-collar street crime.'' 
 But the attorney general said local jurisdictions were in the best position to investigate, and he noted several major prosecutions had already been brought in federal court in the Eastern District of New York. 
 ''There will be more and we will prosecute it, where we see it,'' he said. ''There's always more we can do. That said, I don't see what you call the Enron-type task force. This isn't that type of phenomena.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); LAWYERS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SCANDALS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BANK FAILURES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MUKASEY (91%); BARNEY FRANK (67%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



143 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: 2 Central Banks in Europe Leave Rates Unchanged

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
The European Central Bank, alarmed by soaring prices for food and fuel, warned unexpectedly Thursday that it might raise interest rates next month to counter an inflationary spiral. 
 Declaring the bank to be in a ''heightened state of alertness,'' its president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said that the risks to price stability had increased, and that the bank's governing council debated lifting the key rate at its meeting this week before voting to leave it at 4 percent.
 The Bank of England also left rates unchanged at 5 percent, suggesting that its fears about inflation outweighed concerns about a slowing economy and a deteriorating housing market. 
 Neither central bank had been expected to move rates, but the significant hardening of the tone taken by the European Central Bank reverberated through the markets, sending the euro higher against the dollar and upending the forecasts of many bank watchers about the bank's near-term policy. 
 ''They've set in motion a process that pushes the odds toward a hike in July,'' said Thomas Mayer, chief European economist at Deutsche Bank in London. ''The hawks scored a goal today.'' 
 The bank's governing council, Mr. Trichet said, remains split about the need for an immediate rate increase to curb prices. But with fuel strikes and protests over the cost of food erupting from Portugal to Germany, the debate no longer seems to be whether to raise rates, but when. 
 Mr. Trichet said any increase would be modest, on the order of a quarter of a percentage point.
 Most economists had expected the bank to hold rates steady for the rest of this year, with possible reductions in 2009, as Europe's economy reflected the weakness in the United States. For now, though, fears that oil and food prices will fuel an inflationary spiral have pushed aside worries about collateral damage from the credit crisis that began in the American housing market. 
 They have also overshadowed concerns about the strength of the euro against the dollar. Mr. Trichet welcomed recent statements aimed at resuscitating the dollar by the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr. But the subject was quickly dropped in a news conference consumed by questions about how to combat inflation. 
 Alluding to the tensions in Europe, Mr. Trichet said rising prices hurt people most at the bottom of the economic ladder.
 Safeguarding price stability is the cardinal task of the European Central Bank, which celebrated its 10th anniversary this week with much talk of its success in combating inflation. But the latest numbers show how far inflation has broken beyond the bank's threshold of 2 percent. 
 In May, the inflation rate was 3.6 percent, matching its record high for the period that the bank has managed monetary policy for the euro zone. The bank raised its staff projections for inflation to an average of 3.4 percent for 2008 and 2.4 percent for 2009. 
 Even these forecasts, Mr. Trichet said, are based on the optimistic assumptions that price increases for oil and other commodities will begin to moderate, and that so-called second round effects, like steep increases in union-negotiated wage contracts, can be avoided. 
 Jorg Kramer, chief economist of Commerzbank in Frankfurt, said there was evidence that rising prices had already spilled over into labor negotiations in Germany. ''On the wage front,'' he said, ''we've got problems for the first time in many years. It's wise for the E.C.B. to act now.'' 
 A rate increase in July, he said, would add to the credibility the bank won last August, when it injected billions of euros of cash into financial markets amid signs that lending had become paralyzed because of the subprime mortgage crisis. ''They are preparing the ground to be the first central bank to take action against the heightened inflation risk,'' he said.
 Yet the deep divisions in the 21-member governing council suggested the bank had not developed a unified response to the surging prices of oil, food and other commodities. 
 The debate is complicated by a widening divergence in Europe's economies: countries like Germany are proving resilient, while others, like Ireland and Spain, are suffering from an American-style collapse in their housing markets. For them, a rate increase will only add to the pain. 
 Mr. Trichet, who likes to present a veneer of consensus, said the group had broken into three camps: those who wanted a rate increase now; those who wanted one later; and those who did not want one at all. 
 ''We had a very good and a very deep discussion,'' he said, looking as if weeks had passed since Monday, the day of the bank's festive anniversary party. 
 The president of the German Bundesbank, Axel A. Weber, leads the faction that is pushing for a rate increase. Bank watchers said the shift in tone on Thursday was a major victory for him. But two other central bankers with inflation-fighting credentials -- Nicholas C. Garganas of Greece and Klaus Liebscher of Austria -- are leaving the governing council this summer, which could weaken support for Mr. Weber's campaign, especially if price pressures begin to ease. 
 ''The picture can change dramatically,'' said Elga Bartsch, a senior European economist at Morgan Stanley in London. ''The recent sharp rise in oil prices seems to have come to a halt. Growth is probably going to slow further. There might be further wobbles in financial markets.'' 
 The combination of rising prices and sluggish growth raises memories of the oil shock of the 1970s. Though Mr. Trichet acknowledged similarities between that period and today, he cautioned against overdrawing the analogy. And he rejected suggestions that the bank was in danger of repeating the mistakes of its forebears in responding too late to the threat. 
 ''We are not behind the curve,'' he said. ''We are correctly positioned.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean-Claude Trichet, right, the European Central Bank president, in Frankfurt with the bank's vice president, Lucas D. Papademos. Mr. Trichet said the risks to price stability had increased.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HANNELORE FOERSTER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (89%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); HENRY PAULSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



144 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: A Rising Tide of Mortgage Defaults, Not All on Risky Loans

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
This is a tale of sex, lies and foreclosures.
 In the spreading mortgage crisis, there are many homeowners who were tricked into taking out loans they could not afford, or who failed to understand the risks they were taking.
 This column is not about them.
 Instead it highlights a trail of foreclosures left by a Florida couple, Scott and Deanne Hopp. They bought and sold house after house, and seem to have done well at it for a time. They specialized in buying houses with less than no money down, borrowing more cash than they actually had to pay. 
 One of their homes caused a scandal when it was featured in the local newspaper as being used for sex parties promoted on the Internet. (The report said that some partygoers had to pay a fee, but that others had been admitted free in return for agreeing to allow the party organizers to use videotapes of their party activities.)
 The Hopps protested that was not their fault, that a tenant had organized the parties without their knowledge. Simply renting out the house was a violation of the terms of their mortgage, but the lender, Countrywide Financial, evidently did not notice. A month after the scandal broke, it gave the couple another million-dollar loan to buy a house four miles away.
 Now both of those loans have gone into foreclosure, and so have three others that were made by other lenders on other homes. The total judgments against the Hopps come to $3.9 million, and that does not include hundreds of thousands of dollars in second mortgages that apparently were not worth trying to collect. The houses are selling -- if they are selling at all -- for far less than the amounts owed.
 The Hopps were unusual, of course, but there were many other speculators happy to take advantage of almost free money. If home prices kept rising, they would have paid off the loans with sale proceeds. As it is, they may well have made a profit on the homes they lost to foreclosure.
 In the process, an artificial demand for homes was created, and there was overbuilding that may have left an excess supply of housing that will hold down prices for years to come.
 The impact of the speculative boom and bust may have been greatest in Florida. The Mortgage Bankers Association reported Thursday that at the end of the first quarter, 11.6 percent of all mortgages in Florida -- or more than one in nine -- were delinquent by at least 30 days. That figure included the 4.6 percent of mortgages -- or about one in 22 -- that were in foreclosure. Both figures were higher than in any other state.
 Countrywide, which is now being taken over by Bank of America, did not suffer directly when its first mortgage loans to the Hopps went under. The loans had been put into securitizations, and financed by institutional investors like Pimco and Transamerica Life Insurance. But it is not clear if Countrywide lost money on second-mortgage loans it also made to the Hopps.
 The house with the sex parties, at 5601 Flotilla Drive in Holmes Beach, provides an example of the ways the Hopps were able to finance their purchases -- and of how far Florida real estate values have fallen.
 To sum it all up, they bought the home in early 2004 for $710,000, borrowing $829,300. After a few new loans and a refinancing, they had a $980,000 first mortgage and a $70,000 second mortgage from Countrywide. The first loan was a negative amortization loan -- meaning the Hopps were paying only part of the interest payment -- and by the time the loan went into default, they owed $1.04 million. Add in the fees and back interest, and the total came to $1.1 million.
 The securitization records showed that $1.1 million was just 70 percent of the house's appraised value, but that appraisal proved to be a little high. Countrywide has been trying to sell it for months, at ever lower prices. The latest asking price is $729,900, but if no one offers that much the house is to be auctioned next month, with a minimum bid of $369,000.
 In June 2006, the month after The Islander, a local newspaper on Anna Maria Island off Florida's west coast, reported on the sex party, the Hopps got another loan from Countrywide, to buy another home on the island.
 The financing there was even more creative. It appeared that the two mortgage loans from Countrywide, totaling $1.36 million, amounted to just 68 percent of the $2 million purchase price. But there is ample reason to suspect that price was inflated. 
 Not only did the sellers take back a second mortgage for $350,000, but they also took as partial payment some land in another part of Florida that was valued at $950,000. Two weeks later, the Hopps repurchased that land for $700,000. Even that reduced price turned out to be a bit high. When the Hopps sold the land again, nine months later, it fetched only $215,000. 
 The $2 million house the Hopps bought was taken over by the lender, who sold it for just $1.16 million.
 The first mortgage on that house called for payments of interest only, at a rate of under 7 percent. The Hopps made interest payments for just four months before they walked away.
 I have been unable to reach the Hopps, who no longer have telephones listed in their names in Florida. Timothy S. Kingcade, a lawyer who represented them in some of the foreclosures, said they declined to be interviewed.
 It is tempting to think that at least some of this could have been avoided if we had the old home mortgage system, in which local banks made loans to people they knew, and when there was no such thing as a negative amortization loan. At least a banker on Anna Maria Island would have been likely to have heard about the report of sex parties and been reluctant to lend more money to the same borrowers.
 Perhaps that is true. But Michelle Leder, the proprietor of Footnoted.org, doubts it. It was Ms. Leder, a former resident of Holmes Beach, who first noticed the home on Countrywide's Web site and has followed its descending asking price for months.
 ''It reminds me when I was a cub reporter at The Bradenton Herald in the early '90s, chasing similar deals,'' she said. ''The names of the banks were different then and most of them have long since closed down. But the daisy chain of creatively financed sketchy deals remains eerily similar.''
 Research assistance was provided by Alain Delaqueriere.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The house at 5601 Flotilla Drive in Holmes Beach, Fla.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THE ANNA MARIA ISLANDER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); SCANDALS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); SECOND MORTGAGES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); SECURITIZATION (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (67%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



145 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Meets With Obama After Dousing Talk of Ticket

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: BRISTOL, Va. 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama moved forcefully into the general election on Thursday, placing his stamp on the Democratic Party apparatus and holding a private nighttime meeting with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in an effort to unify Democrats. 
 A day after her campaign said she would end her quest for the presidential nomination, Mrs. Clinton disavowed an effort by her supporters to pressure Mr. Obama into choosing her as his running mate. She said that they were acting on their own and that the decision was ''Senator Obama's and his alone.''
 The meeting between the two former rivals in Washington was initiated by Mrs. Clinton after Mr. Obama spent the day in Virginia, a state symbolic of his efforts to expand the Democratic reach.
 The senators instructed their aides not to disclose details of the meeting. They issued an unusual joint statement late Thursday, saying, ''Senator Clinton and Senator Obama met tonight and had a productive discussion about the important work that needs to be done to succeed in November.'' 
 As Mrs. Clinton prepared to formally endorse his candidacy on Saturday, Mr. Obama said the Democratic National Committee would no longer accept donations from federal lobbyists or political action committees. He said he would keep Howard Dean as the national chairman, but was deploying his own advisers to oversee party operations.
 For the first time since the general-election field was set, Mr. Obama spoke with Senator John McCain, who is the presumptive Republican nominee. Aides described the brief telephone call as a cordial conversation, with both men pledging to have a civil discussion over the next five months.
 Even as Mrs. Clinton began to outline her exit strategy, discussing among advisers what she wanted her delegates to do, the race between Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain rolled along. 
 Their destinations were telling: Mr. McCain trying to appeal to independent voters in Florida, while Mr. Obama arrived in this small southwestern Virginia town as a signal that he intended to try to compete in nontraditional battlegrounds for a Democratic presidential candidate.
 Mr. McCain bought time for television advertisements to begin running as soon as Friday in what Democrats were describing as a vigorous move that they estimated cost $3 million or more. Democrats monitoring his spending said the commercials would run in Colorado, Minnesota, Missouri, Nevada and New Mexico; beginning on Saturday, he bought time in Iowa, Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania. Early indications were that Mr. McCain was going to advertise heavily in markets both large and small.
 While Virginia was among the states that Mr. Obama won in the primary season, he had trouble here in the southwest. Mrs. Clinton carried the city of Bristol, as well as the surrounding county, by 67 percent to 32 percent. Four years ago, President Bush won 64 percent of the vote.
 So the visit by Mr. Obama, which he declared his first official campaign stop of the general-election campaign, was intended to be as rich with symbolism as political strategy. He talked about health care, the Iraq war and the economy. He was interrupted by heavy applause, even though some people in the audience had other topics on their mind. 
 ''Immigration! Immigration!'' one man shouted from the back of the gymnasium.
 Mark Warner, a former Virginia governor who briefly was a presidential candidate and is running for a United States Senate seat, introduced Mr. Obama. Mr. Warner implored those in attendance to keep an open mind about the presumptive Democratic nominee. 
 Among the challenges facing Mr. Obama is to introduce himself before his rival does it for him.
 ''Listen, Virginia, I'm not going to be able to do it by myself; I am going to need every one of you,'' Mr. Obama told an audience of several hundred supporters. ''So in the next few months, I need you to be my ambassadors.''
 While Mrs. Clinton staged no campaign events, she remained a presence in the race.
 The statement from her campaign came after a number of her key supporters had pressed the idea of picking her as the vice-presidential candidate, saying that such a match-up was the best way to salve wounds in the party and to assure victory in the fall.
 Until Thursday, Mrs. Clinton had made no obvious effort to discourage it, telling New York lawmakers, in a private conference call earlier this week, that she was open to serving as Mr. Obama's running mate.
 The efforts to push Mrs. Clinton onto the ticket was, in its directness, unusual, and, several Democrats said, arguably counterproductive. Aides to Mr. Obama said they were unhappy with the effort, and some Democrats outside the campaign said Mr. Obama could be portrayed as bowing to pressure should he choose Mrs. Clinton to run with him.
 The statement issued Thursday was, in many ways, a more typical statement put out by a vanquished candidate seeking consideration for the No. 2 spot. Mrs. Clinton did not rule out accepting the position if offered, even as she made clear that she thought it was Mr. Obama's decision to do what he liked, and that she was not authorizing the activities on her behalf.
 ''While Senator Clinton has made clear throughout this process that she will do whatever she can to elect a Democrat to the White House, she is not seeking the vice presidency, and no one speaks for her but her,'' Howard Wolfson, one of the campaign's chief strategists, said in a statement. ''The choice here is Senator Obama's and his alone.''
 Mr. Obama, speaking to reporters on Thursday, said, ''I appreciate it very much.'' 
 He added that he felt no pressure to rush through his vice-presidential selection process, declaring that he would not be swayed by Democrats who have urged him to put Mrs. Clinton on the ticket.
 ''Obviously, Senator Clinton's been through this when President Clinton went through a very deliberative process before he selected Al Gore,'' Mr. Obama said.
 He added, ''There's no decision that I'm going to make that's going to be more important before the November election. I intend to do it right, and I'm not going to do it in the press.''
 While he conceded that Mrs. Clinton ''would be on anybody's short list,'' he declined to answer additional questions about the matter. ''The next time you hear from me about the vice-presidential selection process will be when I have selected a vice president,'' he said. 
 Mrs. Clinton set the final event of her campaign for president for noon Saturday in Washington. A sign of the chaotic end of the nominating fight -- in response to pressure from some of her former supporters on Capitol Hill -- was that her remaining aides were left scrambling for a venue to hold what his aides said would be several thousand of her supporters.
 On that day, Mr. Obama said he intended to take a brief respite.
 ''We've been going at a pretty fast clip,'' he told reporters Thursday between his campaign events. ''I intend to take the weekend off, and I'm going to take my wife out on a date. I hope to go on a bike ride with my kids.''
 There still was some question about precisely what Mrs. Clinton would do and say, reflecting a disagreement inside her circles. Some aides are urging her to hold on to her delegates and permit supporters to enter her name at the convention for the nomination, a symbolic if potentially divisive gesture.
 Others warned that such a step could further damage her standing in Democratic circles, particularly after the rough reaction to her speech on Tuesday night when she signaled she might not leave the race any time soon and did not acknowledge Mr. Obama's victory.
 Several Democratic members of New York's Congressional delegation, who had been among Mrs. Clinton's earliest supporters, endorsed Mr. Obama on Thursday. Representative Edolphus Towns, Democrat of Brooklyn, made it clear that he would not have waited for Mrs. Clinton to step aside in order to throw his support behind Mr. Obama, who has strong support in Mr. Towns's district.
 ''The process was over,'' Mr. Towns said, referring to the fact that Mr. Obama had clinched the nomination on Tuesday. ''There was no reason for me to wait to make a decision.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barack Obama after a rally on Thursday in Bristol, Va., which he called his first official campaign stop of the general-election race. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A19)
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in New York on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (95%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LOBBYING (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



146 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Banker to Lead State Agency For Economic Development

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson named a prominent banking executive, Robert G. Wilmers, on Thursday as chairman of the state's economic development agency.
 Mr. Wilmers, who is the chairman and chief executive of M&T Bank Corporation, will remain in that position, said Errol Cockfield, a spokesman for the Paterson administration, a move that could raise potential conflicts of interest. A spokesman for the Commission on Public Integrity, Walter Ayres, said that because Mr. Wilmers would not receive a salary, he would not need to seek approval from the commission for his outside business interests, as paid employees do. 
 ''However, all state employees, paid or otherwise, would be expected to recuse themselves if a conflict arose,'' Mr. Ayres said. 
 Mr. Cockfield said Mr. Wilmers intended to do so.
 The Paterson administration has been criticized in some editorial pages in upstate newspapers for scrapping former Gov. Eliot Spitzer's move to divide the management of the agency, the Empire State Development Corporation, in two by appointing separate leaders of the upstate and downstate operations. 
 Administration officials have argued that the structure put in place by Mr. Spitzer was not effective.
 The two chairmen resigned following Mr. Spitzer's resignation in March, after he was tied to a prostitution ring. The departure of the upstate chairman, Daniel Gundersen, was announced on Thursday, and the downstate chairman, Patrick J. Foye, left shortly after Mr. Paterson took office. 
 Mr. Wilmers will not run day-to-day operations; he will take part in a search for two executives to take those responsibilities, one focusing on upstate and another on New York City, Long Island and the suburbs.
 His nomination must be approved by the State Senate. 
 ''Bob Wilmers is one of the most respected figures in the New York State business community,'' the governor said in a news release. ''Not only is he a successful banker, but he also has a long and impressive record of civic engagement.''
 Mr. Wilmers has run M&T, one of the nation's 20 largest banks, since 1983. He once served as a deputy finance commissioner under Mayor John V. Lindsay and currently serves on the board of the Business Council of New York State.
 He has also been a prolific campaign contributor to both political parties and donated $40,000 to the Spitzer-Paterson campaign.
 Assemblyman Richard Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat who is chairman of a committee overseeing public authorities, said the development corporation needed new direction. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (63%); POLITICS (63%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (60%); GOVERNORS (59%); PROSTITUTION (51%)

COMPANY: M&T BANK CORP (91%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%)

TICKER: MTB (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

PERSON: ROBERT G WILMERS (91%); DAVID PATERSON (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



147 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Mergers Accelerate As Telecoms Seek Growth

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN; Eric Pfanner contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
A multibillion-dollar telecommunications merger was announced Thursday, reflecting a trend for mobile phone operators to consolidate in their own crowded backyards while they scout for growth in emerging economies. 
 In the United States, Verizon Wireless, which is owned by Verizon Communications and Vodafone, announced it would buy Alltel for $5.9 billion and the assumption of $22.2 billion in debt. That would make it the biggest cellphone operator in the country, with 80 million subscribers. 
 In Europe, France Telecom offered Thursday to buy TeliaSonera, a Swedish-Finnish telecommunications operator with a variety of holdings in Turkey, Russia and former Soviet states, for $42 billion in cash and stock. 
 Within hours, TeliaSonera, based in Stockholm and owned jointly by the governments of Sweden and Finland, which have a combined 51 percent stake, rejected the offer as too low, but analysts said higher bids --from France Telecom or others -- could persuade those governments to accept a deal. 
 A combination of France Telecom and TeliaSonera would create the world's fourth-largest mobile operator, with 168 million subscribers, behind China Mobile, Vodafone and Telefonica of Spain, which operates the O2 brand. France Telecom operates mobile and other consumer services under the Orange brand. 
 Operators around the globe are looking increasingly to the world's last relatively untapped mobile markets in Africa, the Middle East and Asia. Sales momentum has slowed as cellphone penetration, or the number of phones in relation to the population, has approached or exceeded 100 percent in many European markets. 
 As Western markets have matured, the pace of acquisitions involving emerging market operators has accelerated. Last week, Vodafone, the largest European operator, said it wanted to acquire control of the South African wireless operator Vodacom, in which it owns 50 percent, as a springboard for further acquisitions in Africa. Last month, Reliance Communications, an Indian mobile operator, said it was in talks to acquire MTN, the largest mobile operator in Africa. 
 Deutsche Telekom agreed in May to buy control of the former Greek telephone monopoly, Hellenic Telecommunications, which owns mobile operators on and near the Balkan Peninsula in Serbia, Romania, Bulgaria, Albania and Macedonia. 
 TeliaSonera, which was created in the 2002 merger of the former state phone companies in Sweden and Finland, also has extensive business in emerging markets. The company owns 44 percent of MegaFon, one of the largest mobile operators in Russia, as well as operators in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine and Turkey. 
 John Delaney, an analyst at IDC Europe, a research firm, said an acquisition of TeliaSonera would allow France Telecom to improve its roaming packages for business travelers in Europe. France Telecom has also been trying to broaden its offerings in Europe by selling fixed-line and mobile calling, broadband and video services as a package to customers and advertisers. 
 Despite TeliaSonera's rejection of the offer, Didier Lombard, the chairman and chief executive of France Telecom, signaled that talks between the companies might not be over. During a conference call with analysts, he described TeliaSonera's rejection as logical and a ''first response.'' 
 France Telecom said its bid was worth 62.35 Swedish kroner, or $10.42, a share, which valued TeliaSonera at 252.5 billion kroner (about $42 billion). The offer was a 26 percent premium to TeliaSonera's share price on April 15, the day before France Telecom first expressed an interest. 
 After the announcement of the bid on Thursday, France Telecom's share price fell as much as 4 percent in Paris as some investors deemed the offer too high. 
 Mobile operations in the Baltic region, Russia, the former Soviet states and Turkey made up only about 11 percent of TeliaSonera's sales last year, but analysts say there is strong potential for growth in those regions. 
 ''This is one of the last relatively untapped regions in the world for the wireless industry,'' said Kresimir Alic, an analyst at IDC in Zagreb, Croatia. ''Most of the countries in the former Soviet Union have huge growth potential.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TRENDS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); MERGERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); BROADBAND (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (95%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (93%); TELIASONERA AB (92%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (92%); VODAFONE D2 GMBH (91%); RELIANCE COMMUNICATIONS LTD (58%); OJSC MEGAFON (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (58%)

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (95%); FTE (NYSE) (95%); FTE (BIT) (95%); TLSN (STO) (92%); TLS1V (HEL) (92%); VOD (NASDAQ) (92%); VOD (LSE) (92%); RCOM (NSE) (58%); MFON (RTS) (58%); MFON (LSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); DTE (FRA) (58%); DTE (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (93%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: DIDIER LOMBARD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (72%) FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (94%); SWEDEN (93%); AFRICA (93%); TURKEY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FINLAND (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ESTONIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); UKRAINE (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SPAIN (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); SERBIA (79%); GEORGIA (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); ALBANIA (76%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (72%); LATVIA (57%); BULGARIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



148 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Ousted Executive Provides a Feminine Face to the McCain Campaign

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Three years ago, Carleton S. Fiorina was the celebrity C.E.O. who was spectacularly fired by the Hewlett-Packard board. She produced a best-selling memoir, ''Tough Choices,'' but for the most part spent the years after her ouster in relative self-imposed exile from public life.
 No longer. Ms. Fiorina, universally known as Carly, is back, this time reincarnated as a telegenic, take-no-prisoners surrogate for Senator John McCain.
 On MSNBC on Thursday, Ms. Fiorina praised Mr. McCain's fund-raising prowess with the announcement that he had raised $21.5 million in May. Last month on the ABC program ''This Week With George Stephanopoulos,'' she pushed Mr. McCain's proposal for a gasoline-tax holiday and brushed past the fact that she could not name a credible economist who supported it. 
 In the months before that, Ms. Fiorina tirelessly promoted Mr. McCain's economic proposals in round tables and news media interviews across the country.
 ''When people were picking apart our tax cuts and saying, 'This will cost a gazillion dollars,' she's very good about saying, 'Come on, guys, let's get the numbers and push back,' '' said Mark Salter, one of Mr. McCain's closest advisers. ''She's a very smart woman.''
 Ms. Fiorina's official title is chairwoman of the Republican National Committee's ''Victory '08'' committee dedicated to electing Mr. McCain as president, and she is typically described as an economic adviser to the candidate. To some extent, she is. But Mr. McCain's campaign advisers say her real role within their testosterone-heavy circle matters more: A high-profile female face for a candidate whose support among women lags substantially behind that of his Democratic rivals. 
 ''She has a great feeling for the economy, for technology and probably what women think about these things, and she's wired in,'' said Thomas J. Perkins, a pioneer venture capitalist and a leader on the Hewlett-Packard board in Ms. Fiorina's ouster. (In the past, Mr. Perkins acknowledged, ''we've had words and we've sort of attacked each other in print.'')
 In turn, a number of Republicans say Ms. Fiorina is using the McCain campaign to rebuild her image after her explosive tenure at Hewlett-Packard. They also say it is hard to see why a woman widely criticized for mismanaging one of Silicon Valley's legendary companies is advising and representing a candidate who acknowledged last year that he did not understand the economy as well as he should.
 ''Well, see, the good news about business is, results count,'' Ms. Fiorina, 53, responded briskly in a recent interview in her office at Republican National Committee headquarters on Capitol Hill. ''And the results have been very clear. The results have been crystal clear. From the day I was fired, every quarter, even before they had a new C.E.O., has been record after record. That doesn't happen unless the foundation's been built.''
 Opinion is still split on whether Ms. Fiorina or her successor as chief executive, Mark V. Hurd, deserve credit for Hewlett's success after Ms. Fiorina drove through the company's $25 billion acquisition of Compaq in 2002. By many accounts, Ms. Fiorina was superb at marketing, mixed on strategy, bad at execution -- and extraordinarily successful in unifying the board against what Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld of the Yale School of Management calls her ''street bully'' leadership style.
 ''What a blind spot this is in the McCain campaign to have elevated her stature and centrality in this way,'' said Mr. Sonnenfeld, the senior associate dean for executive programs at the management school and one of Ms. Fiorina's sharpest critics. ''You couldn't pick a worse, non-imprisoned C.E.O. to be your standard-bearer.''
 But Mr. McCain, as Ms. Fiorina put it, does ''clearly not'' share the views of her critics. To the contrary, he so proudly calls on Ms. Fiorina in her regular appearances with him on the campaign trail -- he calls her an American success story ''who began as a part-time secretary'' -- that he seems to be suggesting that Ms. Fiorina, true or not, might have a role in a McCain cabinet. 
 As a result, Ms. Fiorina has been buzzed about as a potential commerce or Treasury secretary or even as a McCain running mate, although some Republicans close to Mr. McCain swiftly dismiss the idea of her as vice president. But the view within the campaign is that it can only help Mr. McCain's standing among women to have Ms. Fiorina mentioned as a possibility for high-profile office in a McCain administration, particularly when he is trying to win over the supporters of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 In the meantime, Ms. Fiorina has done little to tamp down speculation that she might run for office herself, including the California governorship in 2010.
 ''I would be disingenuous if I said it has never occurred to me,'' Ms. Fiorina said about running in general. ''And in part it occurs to me because people keep asking. When I give speeches, people raise their hand -- 'run, run, run.' '' For now, she said, ''I'm focused on getting McCain elected.''
 Ms. Fiorina has been a regular at the campaign's Saturday policy sessions at headquarters in Arlington, Va. -- she was part of a group, including the candidate, behind Mr. McCain's sharp pivot from warning against government intervention in the mortgage crisis to calling for government aid to people in danger of losing their homes -- but she does not serve as a bridge for the candidate to the business or financial community, in large part because of her tenure at Hewlett-Packard.
 ''It's difficult to say that she is the unequivocal success figure that resonates with Wall Street,'' said A.M. Sacconaghi, an analyst who tracks Hewlett-Packard for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company
 Ms. Fiorina, whose late father, Joseph T. Sneed 3rd, was a conservative federal appeals court judge and a member of the panel that appointed Kenneth W. Starr as a special prosecutor into the Clintons' Whitewater dealings, first met Mr. McCain after she testified on Capitol Hill in 2000. Mr. McCain had just abandoned his presidential run against George W. Bush and Ms. Fiorina, who asked to see the senator in his office, left impressed that he was savvy to technological innovation. ''He just got it,'' she said.
 Ms. Fiorina, who is married to a former AT&T executive, Frank J. Fiorina, and has two stepdaughters, now divides her time between a condominium in Washington and a home in Silicon Valley. She received a severance package from Hewlett-Packard worth more than $42 million (Mr. McCain denounced excessive executive pay in an economic speech in Pittsburgh last month) and said in the interview that one of the biggest differences between her new life and her old is that ''I'm not deciding.'' 
 That was clear on a recent morning on the McCain campaign bus, when the candidate summoned Fortune's onetime ''most powerful woman in business'' to sing to him and an audience of reporters in the back. The selection was ''We're Strong for Toledo,'' which Mr. McCain had heard from Ms. Fiorina at an Ohio fund-raiser the night before.
 Ms. Fiorina, embarrassed but not at all shy, did as she was told.
 ''Now we know the secret of her success,'' Mr. McCain enthused when Ms. Fiorina was done with her serenade. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carly Fiorina, former Hewlett-Packard chief executive and an adviser to Senator John McCain, on Mr. McCain's campaign bus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); WOMEN (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TAX LAW (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FUNDRAISING (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); FUEL TAX (69%); TAX RELIEF (68%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



149 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Adviser Says McCain Backs Bush Wiretaps

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A top adviser to Senator John McCain says Mr. McCain believes that President Bush's program of wiretapping without warrants was lawful, a position that appears to bring him into closer alignment with the sweeping theories of executive authority pushed by the Bush administration legal team.
 In a letter posted online by National Review this week, the adviser, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, said Mr. McCain believed that the Constitution gave Mr. Bush the power to authorize the National Security Agency to monitor Americans' international phone calls and e-mail without warrants, despite a 1978 federal statute that required court oversight of surveillance.
 Mr. McCain believes that ''neither the administration nor the telecoms need apologize for actions that most people, except for the A.C.L.U. and trial lawyers, understand were constitutional and appropriate in the wake of the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001,'' Mr. Holtz-Eakin wrote.
 And if Mr. McCain is elected president, Mr. Holtz-Eakin added, he would do everything he could to prevent terrorist attacks, ''including asking the telecoms for appropriate assistance to collect intelligence against foreign threats to the United States as authorized by Article II of the Constitution.'' 
 Although a spokesman for Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, denied that the senator's views on surveillance and executive power had shifted, legal specialists said the letter contrasted with statements Mr. McCain previously made about the limits of presidential power.
 In an interview about his views on the limits of executive power with The Boston Globe six months ago, Mr. McCain strongly suggested that if he became the next commander in chief, he would consider himself obligated to obey a statute restricting what he did in national security matters.
 Mr. McCain was asked whether he believed that the president had constitutional power to conduct surveillance on American soil for national security purposes without a warrant, regardless of federal statutes.
 He replied: ''There are some areas where the statutes don't apply, such as in the surveillance of overseas communications. Where they do apply, however, I think that presidents have the obligation to obey and enforce laws that are passed by Congress and signed into law by the president, no matter what the situation is.'' 
 Following up, the interviewer asked whether Mr. McCain was saying a statute trumped a president's powers as commander in chief when it came to a surveillance law. ''I don't think the president has the right to disobey any law,'' Mr. McCain replied.
 David Golove, a New York University law professor who specializes in executive power issues, said that while the language used by Mr. McCain in his answers six months ago was imprecise, the recent statement by Mr. Holtz-Eakin ''seems to contradict precisely what he said earlier.''
 Mr. McCain's position, as outlined by Mr. Holtz-Eakin, was criticized by the campaign of his presumptive Democratic opponent in the presidential election, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois. Greg Craig, an Obama campaign adviser, said Wednesday that anyone reading Mr. McCain's answers to The Globe and the more recent statement would be ''totally confused'' about ''what Senator McCain thinks about what the Constitution means and what President Bush did.''
 ''American voters deserve to know which side of this flip-flop he's on today, and what he would do as president,'' Mr. Craig said in a phone interview.
 Tucker Bounds, a McCain campaign spokesman, said Mr. McCain's position on surveillance laws and executive power ''has not changed.'' 
 ''John McCain has been an unequivocal advocate of pursuing the radicals and extremists who seek to attack Americans,'' Mr. Bounds wrote in an e-mail message, adding that Mr. McCain's ''votes and positions have been completely consistent and any suggestion otherwise is a distortion of his clear record.''
 Asked whether the views Mr. Holtz-Eakin imputed to Mr. McCain were inaccurate, Mr. Bounds did not repudiate the statement. But late Thursday Mr. Bounds called and said, ''to the extent that the comments of members of our staff are misinterpreted, they shouldn't be read into as anything otherwise.''
 Neither Mr. McCain nor Mr. Holtz-Eakin, a former head of the Congressional Budget Office who primarily advises the campaign on economic issues, were available for comment, Mr. Bounds said.
 Mr. McCain has long distanced himself from the Bush administration on legal issues involving detention and interrogation in the fight against terrorism, an approach that has sometimes aroused suspicion among conservative supporters of the Bush administration. 
 But more recently, as Mr. McCain has worked to consolidate his party's base, he has taken several positions that have won him praise from his former critics while drawing fire from Democrats.
 In February, for example, Mr. McCain voted against limiting the Central Intelligence Agency to the techniques approved in the Army Field Manual on Interrogation, which complies with the Geneva Conventions. Mr. McCain said the C.I.A. needed the flexibility to use other techniques so long as it did not abuse detainees. 
 He also voted for legislation that would free telecommunications companies from lawsuits alleging that they illegally allowed the N.S.A. to eavesdrop on their customers' phone calls and e-mail without a warrant. The legislation would also essentially legalize a form of surveillance without warrants going forward.
 But Mr. McCain had previously stopped short of endorsing the view that Mr. Bush's program of surveillance without warrants was lawful all along because a president's wartime powers can trump statutory limits. 
 Andrew C. McCarthy, a National Review columnist who has defended the administration's legal theories, wrote that Mr. Holtz-Eakin's statement ''implicitly shows Senator McCain's thinking has changed as time has gone on and he has educated himself on this issue.''
 And Glenn Greenwald, a Salon columnist and critic of the Bush administration's legal claims, wrote that the statement was a ''complete reversal'' by Mr. McCain, accusing the candidate of seeking ''to shore up the support of right-wing extremists.''
 The reaction to Mr. Holtz-Eakin's statement is the latest link in a chain of disputes over Mr. McCain's positions on surveillance over the past two weeks.
 On May 23, the McCain campaign sent a volunteer lawyer, Chuck Fish, to be the candidate's surrogate at a conference on computer policy. Mr. Fish spoke at a panel discussion on whether phone and Internet companies should be granted immunity from lawsuits for having helped Mr. Bush's surveillance program.
 Mr. Fish suggested that Mr. McCain wanted to impose conditions -- like Congressional hearings -- that would ensure that such ''forgiveness'' would not signal that the telecoms should feel free to disregard communications privacy laws in the future if a president tells them to.
 After Wired magazine wrote about Mr. Fish's remarks on its blog, raising the question of whether Mr. McCain's position had become more skeptical about immunity, the McCain campaign put out a statement saying that Mr. Fish was mistaken. Mr. McCain supported ending the lawsuits without conditions and his position had not changed, the campaign said. 
 On May 29, The Washington Post quoted Mr. Holtz-Eakin as saying that Mr. McCain did not want the telecoms ''put into this position again'' and that ''there must be clear guidelines for their participation and sufficient vetting'' in any future situation.
 Mr. Holtz-Eakin's comments in turn drew fire from Mr. McCarthy. In a blog posting on the National Review Web site, he demanded to know whether Mr. McCain believes the Constitution authorizes a president to lawfully go ''arguably beyond what is prescribed in a statute'' during a national security crisis.
 Mr. Holtz-Eakin laid out Mr. McCain's position on the president's claimed constitutional powers to bypass surveillance laws in a letter to Mr. McCarthy, who this week called the statement ''extremely significant'' and said it ''marks a welcome evolution on the senator's thinking about executive power.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John McCain is said to endorse no-warrant eavesdropping.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LM OTERO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 An adviser to John McCain has strongly defended a government surveillance program.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WIRETAPPING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); LAWYERS (70%); TERRORISM (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



150 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: After the Long Primary Campaign

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Clinton Ready to End Bid and Endorse Obama'' (front page, June 5):
 It seems to me that if Barack Obama is truly capable of changing Washington -- reaching across the aisle, and changing the dynamic of the American political dialogue -- then proof of his ability will be found in how he gets Hillary Rodham Clinton's followers to follow him. 
 If he cannot unite the Democratic Party, how could he be expected to unite the country, or the world? 
 Jeff Josephson Moorestown, N.J., June 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Some of us had the audacity to hope that we would have a woman president. Now that hope has been dashed. 
 Josephine Donovan Portsmouth, N.H., June 5, 2008
 The writer is the author of ''Feminist Theory: The Intellectual Traditions of American Feminism.''
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Many Blacks Find Hope and Joy in an Unexpected Breakthrough'' (front page, June 5):
 Black Americans are not the only ones who are inspired by Senator Barack Obama's success as the presumed Democratic nominee for president of the United States. Here in South Africa, where Nelson Mandela was elected its first black president more than a decade ago, black and white people alike are extremely interested and hopeful that Senator Obama becomes America's next president.
 His candidacy and election to this office are seen by them as a sign of hope that America will deal with its own truth about its racial past and need for reconciliation.
 Senator Obama is also seen as a person who, as president, will bring a more humane sensitivity to matters of state and world affairs. His successful candidacy has already begun to shift the mind-set of the world to one of a more positive image of America and black people everywhere and reinforced a healthy image of black American family life.
 Frederick J. Streets Pretoria, South Africa, June 5, 2008
 The writer, a former chaplain of Yale University, is a Fulbright Scholar in South Africa and professor at Wurzweiler School of Social Work, Yeshiva University in New York City.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''It's Over. Now It Begins'' (editorial, June 5):
 Presidential campaigns are usually more simple than we care to admit: Conservative versus liberal. Experience versus inexperience. Character versus lack of character. And then there is the backdrop to the election. When Bill Clinton ran, it was the economy, stupid. When George W. Bush ran a second time, it was 9/11. 
 Now, we have lived through many years of an unpopular war brought on by half-truths and lies and then executed poorly, a seemingly uncaring and incompetent government response to the Katrina disaster, and an economy marred by home mortgage foreclosures and raging fuel prices. There will be debates over policies and plans, but what presidents really bring to the table is leadership, hope, confidence and pride and the judgment to surround themselves with first-rate advisers. 
 Barack Obama exhibits all of these qualities, not to mention an eloquence that we have not heard in many years. 
 It was a tough primary for those of us who wanted change from the present administration. Two good, intelligent and capable candidates. But even Hillary Rodham Clinton's supporters must acknowledge that Barack Obama may be a special candidate, well suited to these times. Mrs. Clinton would do the right thing by throwing her full support behind Senator Obama. Senator Obama should try to remain himself. He is a formidable package. 
 Bruce Neuman Sag Harbor, N.Y., June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); WOMEN (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (74%); LIBERALISM (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); FORECLOSURE (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008



151 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM IN REVIEW 'KUNG FU PANDA'; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Movies

BYLINE: By NATHAN LEE and JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
TAKE OUT
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
Directed by Sean Baker and Shih-Ching Tsou
 In Mandarin and English, with English subtitles
 1 hour 27 minutes; not rated
 ''Take Out'' tracks, with nimble attention and fine curiosity, a day in the life of an illegal Chinese immigrant as he darts around Upper Manhattan on a cheap bicycle laden with MSG-soaked delicacies. There's a lot at stake on this particular day, which begins as Ming Ding (Charles Jang) is rudely awakened by a pair of thuggish debt collectors demanding a full $800 payment by night's end. 
 And then it starts to rain. Hard. This doesn't make the job any easier, but it does make it more profitable. The orders, fielded by a good-natured woman called Big Sister (the scene-stealing Wang-Thye Lee), come flooding in. 
 The filmmaking team of Sean Baker and Shih-Ching Tsou divide their attention between take-out operations (kitchen prep, customer service, camaraderie) and Ming Ding's fate in the field. At the heart of this humble and resourceful little picture is a simple but nuanced drama of the door: the tippers, the nontippers, the scary dogs, the impatient, distracted, racist or demanding. 
 Except for a manipulative climactic twist, ''Take Out'' takes no false step as a scrupulous and socially conscious slice of life. Forget ''Sex and the City'': the clothes may be tacky and the sneakers soggy, but for my money -- I'll tip more, I promise! -- ''Take Out'' is the season's freshest, most sympathetic movie about making your way in modern-day Manhattan with a little help from your friends. NATHAN LEE
 ON THE RUMBA RIVER
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Jacques Sarasin
 In Lingala, with English subtitles
 1 hour 22 minutes; not rated 
 You don't have to be a fan of African tunes to appreciate ''On the Rumba River,'' Jacques Sarasin's heartfelt ode to Congolese music and its resilient practitioners.
 Focusing primarily on Antoine Kolosoy, known as Wendo, the region's brightest and most enduring star, this alternately poignant and playful documentary views his achievements from a context of political oppression and economic deprivation. Now 83, Mr. Kolosoy -- a onetime riverboat mechanic and boxer whose first album was recorded in 1948 -- is seen enjoying a reunion with former band mates while dodging his wife's pleas to get a job. 
 ''We got our independence, but all we do is kill each other,'' he tells us while the camera tracks through the misery of the Kinshasa slums, their squalor a shocking counterpoint to the effervescence of the music. Whether proclaiming the indifference of politicians or the thrill of infatuation, the songs -- heavily influenced by the music of Cuban seamen in the 1940s -- offer a welcome distraction from poverty and civil war.
 Filming in late 2004, the director uses his eyes but not his voice, allowing his subjects to guide the story. In the background, the vast expanse of the Congo River flows with a neglected beauty; the country may be falling into ruin, but the songs remain the same. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
 RFK MUST DIE
 The Assassination of 
 Bobby Kennedy
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Shane O'Sullivan
 1 hour 42 minutes; not rated
 Heads talk and reason walks in the documentary ''RFK Must Die: The Assassination of Bobby Kennedy,'' a conspiracy-addled trudge through the Ambassador Hotel's most fateful event. 
 To support the theory that the convicted killer, Sirhan Sirhan, was operating under C.I.A. control -- a real-life Manchurian Candidate -- the filmmaker Shane O'Sullivan offers re-enactments of the shooting and the recollections of a colorful array of eyewitnesses. Like a dog unleashed in a field full of rabbits, he chases one shard of ''evidence'' after another -- a second gunman, a girl in a polka-dot dress -- without bothering to arrange them in any coherent pattern.
 Overstuffed and underdirected, the movie combines snippets from Robert F. Kennedy's speeches with an impressive selection of two-centers, including Sirhan's brother and former C.I.A. operatives. Sadly, neither their testimonies nor that of a mysterious audio recording determine whether the assassin was under the influence of Langley or a lethal combination of self-hypnosis and Tom Collinses. 
 As a teaser for Mr. O'Sullivan's coming book, however, the film may be more successful, even if its maker eventually torpedoes his own argument (garnering points for journalistic integrity if not for dramatic instinct). Finally, the most poignant aspect of ''RFK Must Die'' may be its reminder that once we had a presidential candidate who could quote Camus and Aeschylus. Happier days indeed. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charles Jang in ''Take Out,'' directed by Sean Baker and Shih-Ching Tsou. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAVU PICTURES)
 Wendo Kolosoy, near left, with a fellow musician, Antoine Moundanda, in the documentary ''On the Rumba River.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FIRST RUN FEATURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); SLUM DWELLINGS (72%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (68%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2010



152 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Vacations Are Good for You, Medically Speaking

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND. 
Email: shortcuts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
GAS prices are going up, the economy is going down, and it seems hard to justify a vacation when many of us are glad just to have jobs. But now, more than ever, we need to take a break -- a real break, not just a long weekend -- from our stressed-out lives. 
 But, it turns out, even before the downturn, a lot of Americans were working through their vacation time, taking fewer and shorter holidays. 
 A global study by Expedia.com found that about a third of employed Americans usually do not take all the vacation days that they are entitled to, leaving an average of three days on the table. 
 This is not so unusual. About a quarter of the workers in Britain do not take all their vacation time, and in France a little less. The only difference is that the British get an average of 26 days of vacation and the French about 37 -- compared with our 14 days, Expedia.com said. 
 According to John de Graaf, executive director of Take Back Your Time, a nonprofit organization that studies issues related to overwork, 137 countries mandate paid vacation time. The United States is the only industrialized country that doesn't. 
 Here are some more depressing figures: The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that about a quarter of all workers in the private sector do not receive paid vacation. And the Conference Board, a private research group, said the number of Americans who said in April that they were going to take a vacation in the next six months is at a 30-year low, according to their regular consumer survey. Only 39 percent of those responding said they would go away on holiday over the next half year.
 That is the lowest figure since 1978 and reflects a general decline since 2000, when, in April of that year, 49 percent said they were planning a getaway in the next six months.
 But really, should you just stay home, relax in front of the television, read a novel, do a few day trips?
 Well, vacations are not simply a luxury. There is increasing evidence that they really are necessary for good health. 
 Using information from the Framingham Heart Study, which started in 1948, researchers looked at questionnaires women in the study had filled out over 20 years about how often they took vacations. Those women who took a vacation once every six years or less were almost eight times more likely to develop coronary heart disease or have a heart attack than those who took at least two vacations a year, said Elaine Eaker, a co-author of the study and president of Eaker Epidemiology Enterprises, a private research company.
 The study, published in 1992, was controlled for other factors like obesity, diabetes, smoking and income, Ms. Eaker said, and the findings have been substantiated in follow-up research.
 ''It shows how the body reacts to a lifestyle of stress,'' she said. ''This is real evidence that vacations are important to your physical health.''
 Another study, published in 2000, looked at 12,000 men over nine years who were at high risk for coronary heart disease. Those who failed to take annual vacations had a 21 percent higher risk of death from all causes and were 32 percent more likely to die of a heart attack.
 So forget about cutting down on cholesterol and exercise -- I'm off to the Bahamas.
 Well, no. But even if you don't have heart problems, a vacation of at least one week -- and preferably two weeks to really unwind -- can help you relax and sleep better. Mark Rosekind, president and chief scientist at Alertness Solutions, a scientific consulting firm, has worked with NASA pilots and astronauts on sleep issues. 
 In 2006, he was commissioned by Air New Zealand to see if he could scientifically measure the benefit of a vacation. He asked a group of 15 people who were flying from the West Coast of the United States to New Zealand for vacations lasting a week to 12 days to wear a wrist device that monitored quantity and quality of sleep -- for three days before the trip, during the vacation and three days afterward. 
 They kept a sleep diary and took a vigilance test to determine how good their reactions were before, during and after the holiday.
 The participants were also hooked up to a brain monitor during the 12-hour flight, and other variables, like health, jobs and gender were factored in.
 Here's what he found. After a few days on vacation -- and it usually took two to three -- people were averaging an hour more of good quality sleep. And there was an 80 percent improvement in their reaction times.
 ''When they got home, they were still sleeping close to an hour more, and their reaction time was 30 to 40 percent higher than it had been before the trip,'' Mr. Rosekind said.
 The trick, these days when going on vacation, is not only to physically remove yourself from your normal routine, but mentally as well. Checking your BlackBerry every few hours or rushing to the nearest Internet cafe doesn't cut it.
 For 10 years, the Faculty of Management at Tel Aviv University has conducted a study looking at what is called ''respite effects,'' which measure relief from job stress before, during and after vacations. 
 Professor Dov Eden, an organizational psychologist who has conducted the study, found that those who are electronically hooked up to their office, even if they are lying on the Riviera, are less likely to receive the real benefits of a vacation and more likely to burn out.
 Here's one trick. My neighbor Mark had a colleague who was a workaholic. But when he went on vacation, he made sure to go where there was no cellphone or Internet service.
 Mr. de Graaf sees a solution to the vacation deprivation problem, even if it's a long shot. His organization is working with Congress to consider national legislation requiring paid vacation time. He is hoping that such legislation, currently called the Minimum Leave Protection, Family Bonding and Personal Well-Being Act, will be introduced next year. It calls for a mandated three weeks of vacation every year. 
 ''It's tough, there's no question about it, but there's a lot of interest in it,'' Mr. de Graaf said. ''There's less business opposition for this leave than sick leave or parenting leave because it's more predictable.'' 
 He estimated that it could add an extra 2 percent to 4 percent to the labor costs of a business, but ''that would be balanced by less turnover and maybe less sick days.''
 Now that I've made such a case for vacations, maybe it's time to acknowledge that in some cases, these trips -- particularly with entire families in tow -- can be stressful in their own way. The joys of a holiday can also include lugging around a ridiculous amount of paraphernalia, jet-lagged children sobbing on airplanes, hotels that looked wonderful on the Web but are in reality next to a construction site.
 Back in 1979, a journalist, Lance Morrow, wrote an article in Time magazine about how rising gas prices were curtailing the annual family vacations. (Sound familiar?) He noted that ''the real danger of the vacation lies in its capacity to compress all family conflicts into an exquisitely focused drama.'' 
 And some years before that, the humorist Robert Benchley wrote that ''traveling with children corresponds roughly to traveling third class in Bulgaria.''
 William Doherty, a professor of family social science at the University of Minnesota, said that ''vacations tend to create memories more than any other family activity, and the bad times are some of the best memories.'' 
 He said he remembers, for example, being at the Jersey Shore when he was a child and his father stepped on a shell that sent him to the hospital.
 ''I got to ride in the ambulance,'' Mr. Doherty said. ''That was great.''
 The trick, then, is to have a vacation that enhances family bonding, but not too much. I'll let you know how that works out after our Cape Cod trip this summer, where we will be joined by my sister, her husband and three children and my parents.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A family at Disneyland Resort Paris, which remains a popular destination despite the stresses of travel.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRICE DIMIER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (75%); STATISTICS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WOMEN (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CARDIOLOGY (65%); HEART DISEASE (65%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (65%); WRITERS (61%); SMOKING (60%); OBESITY (60%); DIABETES (60%)

COMPANY: EXPEDIA INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

TICKER: EXPE (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (91%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



153 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices and Joblessness Punish Shares

BYLINE: By ABHA BHATTARAI

 BODY:
Wall Street suffered its worst losses in more than two months on Friday after crude oil prices spiked over $138, an increase of nearly $11, and the unemployment rate rose more than expected. 
 All 30 of the stocks that make up the Dow Jones industrial average took a hit as the index dropped nearly 400 points on fears that high energy prices will extend and deepen an economic slowdown.
 ''The market is meeting its worst fears right now,'' said Quincy Krosby, chief investment strategist at the Hartford, a financial services firm. 
 The Dow fell 3.13 percent, or 394.64 points, to close at 12,209.81. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 43.37 points, or 3.09 percent, to 1,360.68, its lowest point in four months. The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index declined 75.38 points, or 2.96 percent, to 2,474.56.
 Shares opened lower after the government reported that the unemployment rate in May increased the most in one month in 22 years. The market decline accelerated as crude oil rose steadily, closing $10.75 higher in its biggest one-day climb ever. 
 ''Oil prices have reached the tipping point,'' said Richard Sparks, an analyst at Schaeffer's Investment Research. ''Prices have rallied for a good two months, but now it's really weighing on the market.'' 
 Friday's session wiped out the gains the markets had Thursday, and left all three major indexes down for the week. The Dow fell 3.39 percent for the week, the S.& P. 500 was off 2.83 percent and the Nasdaq had a loss of 1.91 percent. 
 Wall Street has run into choppy waters over the last two weeks after a period of relative calm. Friday's decline was a return to the triple-digit collapses of February and March, when the market was rocked by the Bear Stearns bailout and significant interest rate cuts from the Federal Reserve.
 The last time the Dow fell this much was at the beginning of the subprime mortgage crisis in February 2007.
 On Friday, the blue-chip index was dragged down by shares of American International Group, the big insurer, which stumbled after accusations that the company may have overstated the value of contracts tied to subprime mortgages. 
 A.I.G.'s shares fell $2.48, or nearly 7 percent, to close at an 11-year low of $33.93.
 Shares of financial firms and companies that depend on discretionary spending were the hardest hit, as investors worried that the weak labor market was likely to raise anxieties among some Americans and put a pall on spending habits. 
 Friday's report from the Labor Department said that the economy lost jobs for the fifth consecutive month and the unemployment rate surged to 5.5 percent in May, from 5 percent in April, the sharpest monthly rise in 22 years.
 Investors are also worried that high energy prices will further slow the economy. 
 ''If oil prices stay this high, you're going to have to re-examine your estimates for G.D.P., inflation and consumers' ability to spend outside of nondiscretionary items,'' Ms. Krosby said. ''This has all of the elements of an investor's worst-case scenario.''
 Oil prices surged almost 8 percent, to $138.54 a barrel after a senior Israeli politician raised the specter of an attack on Iran and the dollar fell against the euro.
 ''As soon as that news hit the tape, oil spiked about $6,'' said David Kovacs, an investment strategist at Turner Investment Partners.
 Prices were buoyed further by a report from Morgan Stanley that predicted oil would reach $150 a barrel by July 4 because of higher demand in Asia.
 Shares of General Motors, whose fortunes can depend on oil prices, fell more than 4 percent, to $16.22.
 Mr. Sparks added that the market was also taking a hit from a string of bad news that came out earlier this week, including Standard & Poor's downgrading of Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley and the ousting of Wachovia's chairman.
 ''All of this has culminated and it's bringing the boogeyman back out of the closet,'' he said.
 Bond prices jumped on Friday as investors sought the safety of Treasuries in the volatile market. 
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 1 2/32, to 99 23/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 3.91 percent, from 4.04 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity.
 THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



154 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: International Agency Urges the Start of an 'Energy Revolution'

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
The International Energy Agency, a group that advises industrialized countries, said Friday in a report that investments of at least $45 trillion might be needed over the next half-century to prevent energy shortages and greenhouse gas emissions from slowing economic growth.
 Nobuo Tanaka, the agency's executive director, called for ''immediate policy action and technological transition on an unprecedented scale.'' 
 Mr. Tanaka said the world would ''essentially require a new global energy revolution which would completely transform the way we produce and use energy.''
 The report sends a strong warning that the combination of growing demand for energy in countries like China and India, the dangers of climate change and the scarcity of resources are going to require huge shifts in the global economy. Countries will have to overcome objections to building nuclear power plants and to storing large amounts of carbon dioxide underground or beneath the ocean floor.
 The report also described emissions-cutting pathways that broadly match the advice of some leading scientists who have recommended cutting emissions in half by 2050 as a way of avoiding devastating climate change. Environment ministers from the Group of 8 industrialized countries have backed a 50 percent goal. The ministers said governments should endorse that target at a G8 summit in July.
 Among the International Energy Agency's chief messages is that current policies are unsustainable with carbon dioxide emissions expected to rise 130 percent and demand for oil expected to rise 70 percent by 2050. Tanaka warned that oil demand could be five times the current production of Saudi Arabia by that time.
 A crucial problem is that the rising cost of oil and gas is prompting a switch to coal, particularly in India and China. Coal is cheap and plentiful but its increasing use is contributing to the accelerating growth in emissions of carbon dioxide.
 The International Energy Agency offers advice on energy policy to its 27 member nations, including the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, South Korea and most of Europe. It recommended taking measures now that would ensure that carbon emissions are down to at least present-day levels by midcentury by, among other strategies, using energy efficiency measures and reducing emissions from power generation.
 The agency also mapped out a second situation aimed at bringing emissions to half their current levels by midcentury by emphasizing technologies and strategies for ''weaning the world off oil.'' The agency estimated the cost of that process at $45 trillion, or 1.1 percent of annual global output, over the period to 2050. Investments of $100 billion to $200 billion would be needed each year over the next 10 years, rising to $1 trillion to $2 trillion each year in the coming decades.
 To reach the goal of halving emissions, it said, among the most important measures would be equipping more than 50 gas and coal power plants each year with equipment to capture and sequester carbon dioxide. There would also be a need for 32 new nuclear plants each year, while the number of wind turbines would need to increase by 17,500 a year.
 Other strategies included accelerating the development of solar electricity and so-called second-generation biofuels that do not compete with food for farmland.
 The report acknowledged that numerous objections to these technologies would need to be overcome, in particular local opposition to building nuclear power plants and long-term nuclear waste repositories.
 But the most difficult and costly step, it said, would be reducing carbon emissions from transportation at a time when the use of cars, airplanes and ships would still be growing rapidly but few technologies would exist to limit those emissions.
 Even so, Mr. Tanaka sounded an optimistic note, saying that although a global energy technology revolution ''will be a tough challenge,'' it was ''both necessary and achievable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (88%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (93%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (52%) INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); BELGIUM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



155 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Wholesale Inventories Grew Faster in April Than Forecasters Expected

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
American wholesalers' inventories rose more than forecast in April, led by a surge in petroleum and metals that reflected rising commodity prices.
 The 1.3 percent gain in stockpiles followed a revised increase of 0.1 percent in March, the Commerce Department said Friday. Sales jumped 1.4 percent, after climbing 1.8 percent in March. 
 Distributors had enough goods on hand to last 1.09 months at the current sales pace, down from the previous month and matching a record low reached in November. The decline indicates that companies may be in a good position to deal with a slowing economy and that production cutbacks may be gradual.
 ''Companies are not allowing inventories to get out of line relative to sales, and that means they will not need to cut production,'' said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in New York.
 Economists had forecast that wholesale inventories would rise 0.4 percent, according to the median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Wholesalers account for about a quarter of all business stockpiles. The government said on Tuesday that factory inventories, which make up about a third of the total, were unchanged. Retail stockpiles, which make up the rest, will be included in the business inventories report on Thursday.
 The increase in wholesale stockpiles was led by an 8.8 percent jump in petroleum, the biggest since January 2006, and a 2.9 percent increase in metals, the most in more than a year.
 One area of concern remained auto dealers, where inventories increased as demand slumped. Auto stockpiles rose 2.5 percent as sales declined 2.4 percent.
 Inventories of durable goods increased 1.1 percent, and those of nondurable products like oil climbed 1.7 percent.
 Manufacturers as a group are cutting inventories. The Institute for Supply Management said on Monday that its measure of factory stockpiles fell to 48 in May from 48.1, the 24th month of inventory drawdown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (93%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (91%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); NEW CAR DEALERS (68%)

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (69%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (65%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



156 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: The Card-Carrying Starbucks Fan

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER; Send your Starbucks wish list to rlieber@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN 1981, when American Airlines was struggling to differentiate itself in a newly deregulated industry, it invented the frequent flier mile. Ten years later, American Express responded to its own competitive crisis by introducing what we now know as Membership Rewards. 
 So it shouldn't come as any big surprise that Starbucks, facing its own troubled times, would also turn to a loyalty program.
 This week, the company flipped the switch on the latest piece of its new Starbucks Card Rewards program: two hours of free wireless Internet service a day. The other freebies include syrup and soy milk additions to its drinks, refills of drip coffee and a tall beverage of any sort for people who buy a pound of whole bean coffee. 
 On a pure dollar basis, all of this doesn't add up to much. It's no free ticket to Maui, after all. Starbucks is well aware of this and says that it is just getting started with the program. 
 So for now, Starbucks Rewards gets a grade of incomplete. But the Starbucks program also serves as a useful example. It demonstrates just how hard it is, in any industry, to build a program that inspires allegiance to a particular brand. 
 The point of a loyalty program is, first and foremost, to grab a bigger share of customers' spending. Companies often do this by giving away currency of some sort, like miles or points, that people can trade for free trips or merchandise. Then, the goal is to keep buyers from straying, by offering, say, an elite status with special perks that they must qualify for each year. 
 Tracking customers through loyalty program account numbers offers companies an additional advantage. ''If you don't have a lot of information on your target audience and you need to get it, then you want to try to encourage people to enroll in as large a number as possible,'' says Rick Ferguson, editorial director at Colloquy, a loyalty marketing firm. Once a company has more data, it can tailor the program further and aim at the most profitable customers with special offers.
 That's what Starbucks will try to do now. Sales at stores open more than a year are actually falling, which has never happened to the chain before. The company blames the economy in part, and worries about consumers trading down from Frappuccinos to black coffee or simply caffeinating at home. 
 At the same time, it is facing new competition. Having trained us all to appreciate the bolder brews, Starbucks now sees boutique, roast-on-the-premises cafes trying to pick off its more discerning customers. And at lower prices, McDonald's is adding its own baristas.
 So after getting so many of us addicted to the good stuff, Starbucks finds that it isn't alone in peddling a fix. ''We need to reignite the emotional connection between our customers and the brand,'' says Brad Stevens, the vice president for customer relationship management at Starbucks. 
 Can a loyalty program help do that for Starbucks? After all, the average purchase there is 1 or 2 percent of the price of an airline ticket. How emotional can anyone really get over a few dollars?
 Loyalty experts note that Starbucks has little choice than to try to crack the code, given the sheer number of transactions at stake. ''The average American adult makes over 200 restaurant decisions in a single year, versus a few plane tickets,'' said Jeffrey D. Lipp, president and chief executive of Chockstone. His company helps customers, including some Starbucks competitors, build and run their own loyalty programs.
 What he has found is that it doesn't take a lot to get diners, for example, to do what restaurants want. One Chockstone gambit involves using the customer's receipt to make an offer. Return within 10 days, perhaps, and you can get a free dessert, the slip says. 
 ''It's amazing this stuff works so well,'' Mr. Lipp said. ''What we've found is that people can be bought for a cookie.''
 Perhaps the same will be true for free refills and three pumps of cinnamon syrup at Starbucks. To get the goodies, however, customers must use the Starbucks card. 
 This card, a run-of-the-mill gift card that many customers choose to reload regularly with money, has become a juggernaut. Already, it is the payment vehicle for one in seven Starbucks transactions, and consumers loaded and redeemed more than $1 billion on the cards in the company's most recent fiscal year. Starbucks figures it will activate 50 million of them this year alone. 
 If you want to be part of the new rewards program, you'll have to get a card. This is a pain. Wallets are thick enough already. Partly as a salve for the added bulk, Starbucks decided to make all its perks available immediately to rewards program members. You don't have to earn the privileges by spending $50 a month or wait until you've bought 10 beverages. 
 Once you register your rewards card online, these are the four main benefits:
 GET A FREE DRINK WITH BEANS Buy one pound of whole bean coffee at a Starbucks store and get a tall beverage of your choice. This may be the most lucrative part of the rewards offering. The chain's average price for a pound is $10.75. A tall beverage, depending on the extras, can run $3 or more if you're not in the rewards program. The return on your purchase could top 25 percent here. 
 ADD FREE SYRUP AND SOY MILK Syrup normally costs 30 cents. Soy milk or heavy cream are generally 40 cents. Use the card, however, and they are free. The discount here depends on the size of your drink and how much you like to customize it, but it may end up yielding even more than the free-drink-with-beans offer. 
 But there is some fine print. Syrups are free but sauces, like caramel, are not. Limited-time beverages like pumpkin lattes don't qualify for the free add-ons either. 
 FREE REFILLS Plain old brewed drip coffee (hot or iced) usually costs 50 cents for a refill. Now it will be free as long as you haven't left the store and come back hours later. Given the takeout traffic, it's not clear how many people will find this useful. But there's no limit on how many times you can go back to the urn. Avail yourself of this one at your own risk. 
 FREE WI-FI Starbucks deserves no credit for this. Plenty of competitors offer unlimited wireless Internet access. Starbucks's offer of just two free hours feels piddling. 
 Mr. Stevens, the Starbucks executive, said that more than 90 percent of Starbucks customers used the Wi-Fi for less than two hours. He also said that Starbucks uses AT&T's network, which is reasonably good and doesn't come cheap. 
 The introduction of the rewards program has been messy so far. Store registers can't automatically tell when customers have already enrolled their cards in the rewards program. So baristas are supposed to ask whether the card is turned on, then hit a special button to apply the perks. This isn't always happening when it's supposed to. The company says it plans to fix the registers soon. 
 Also, not all Starbucks stores participate in the rewards program, like the licensed stores in airports, casinos and many other locations. This is madness. If the sign says Starbucks, you ought to be able to get your perks. Period. 
 Starbucks may also suffer from expectations borne from too many years of airline upgrades. 
 Rewards are nice, but recognition is better. So if I'm one of Starbucks's best customers, I want to have elite status, as I do on American Airlines. I want shorter lines, better freebies, special seating (Aeron chairs, preferably) and electrical outlets reserved just for me and my laptop. 
 When I dared express these thoughts in a post on the personal finance Web site FiLife a few months ago, commenters there and on the Starbucks Gossip site called me selfish and self-absorbed and suggested that I get a life. After all, it's just coffee, they said.
 Look, we all want to be recognized for our loyal patronage. I happily plead guilty to self-absorption on that front. And while it is just coffee we're talking about, Starbucks is a company that others look to as a model. What it does with this program will influence plenty of businesses that deal in higher-dollar products. 
 And that is why I'm glad to report that Starbucks is indeed considering some sort of elite status. It is also studying ways that card use can speed up your visit and is looking for ways to make the giveaways more generous. Big, ambitious loyalty programs evolve over many years. So it will be fascinating to see what Starbucks adds to the mix. 
 Alas, special seating may not be part of it. Mr. Stevens, from Starbucks, tried to let me down easy on that one. ''You'll probably see us address the line thing first,'' he said. ''Whether we get into reserving seats, that's probably not high on our examination list.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Starbucks recently started a card rewards program.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Giveaways with Starbucks's loyalty card include two hours of wireless Internet and refills of drip coffee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); LOYALTY MARKETING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); COFFEE (89%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (70%); RETAILERS (69%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (65%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (55%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%); AXP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



157 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Zimbabwe Blocks Opposition's Rallies and Again Detains Its Leader

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
With only three weeks to go before Zimbabwe's presidential runoff, the police briefly detained the opposition's standard-bearer, Morgan Tsvangirai, on Friday for the second time this week and directed his party to cancel political rallies, effectively preventing him from addressing voters. 
 At the same time, the Zimbabwean government's requirement that all nongovernmental organizations suspend their aid operations, which grew out of the authorities' allegations that some were supporting the opposition, was condemned Friday by officials in the United States and Europe, as well as the United Nations. 
 Relief agencies said the order, issued this week, would deprive millions of desperately poor Zimbabweans of food aid and other basic assistance. Unicef, for example, depends on 25 nongovernmental organizations to provide education, health care and food to 185,000 orphans in Zimbabwe. 
 ''It's a horrible situation,'' said James Elder, Unicef's spokesman in Zimbabwe. ''The children and their families continue to find stoic means of surviving, but this is a profoundly disturbing blow to them. We can't reach these children today.''
 Similarly, the World Food Program said on Friday that the prohibition on aid operations would prevent ''314,000 of the most vulnerable people in the country'' -- the elderly, the disabled, schoolchildren, tuberculosis patients and ''H.I.V.-positive bedridden'' people -- from receiving food this month. 
 World Vision, another large relief agency, said it had planned to feed about 400,000 people in Zimbabwe in June and was particularly concerned about the welfare of the 1.3 million children under 5 who had been orphaned by AIDS.
 President Robert Mugabe has led Zimbabwe, which has a population of about 13 million, for almost three decades. In the past few years, the country's economy has gone into free fall, with more than four in five people unemployed and prices of food staples sent into the stratosphere by hyperinflation. The space for peaceful political protest keeps shrinking, according to officials of Mr. Tsvangirai's party, the Movement for Democratic Change.
 The party said it had received a written notice from the police that rallies it had planned in impoverished townships of the capital, Harare, would have to be canceled because the safety of party leaders could not be guaranteed -- a seemingly paradoxical rationale, given that the police had confiscated Mr. Tsvangirai's armored vehicle on Wednesday.
 The government's decision to block rallies is a blow to Mr. Tsvangirai, a charismatic figure who drew large, enthusiastic crowds before the March election. 
 He has survived three assassination attempts and was severely beaten by the police in March 2007. In the voting 10 weeks ago, he finished first, but according to official returns he did not have the majority he needed to avoid a runoff election against Mr. Mugabe. 
 Mr. Tsvangirai left the country not long after that election, fearing another assassination attempt. He returned to Zimbabwe two weeks ago, but he has since been unable to campaign freely for the June 27 runoff vote. 
 Opposition officials said Mr. Tsvangirai was detained on Wednesday for nine hours and again on Friday for two hours. He was stopped at a roadblock on his way to a rally not far from Bulawayo, Zimbabwe's second largest city, and sent to a police station for questioning.
 A police spokesman, Wayne Bvudzijena, blamed the opposition for Mr. Tsvangirai's most recent detention, alleging that the candidate's convoy crashed through a roadblock, according to Reuters. 
 Zimbabwean police officers and soldiers detained a contingent of American diplomats for five hours on Thursday at a roadblock, slashing the tires of their vehicle after a six-mile chase. The diplomats had been investigating state-sponsored violence against the opposition. The Bush administration has expressed outrage at the police action. The State Department said it would seek a discussion by the United Nations Security Council of the mistreatment of its diplomats. 
 The Zimbabwean authorities have been aggressively using the state's power to detain and arrest many of those whom they regard as a threat to the governing party's hold on power. They have also been forcefully exerting the state's monopolistic control over television, radio and the nation's only daily newspaper. 
 This week, eight employees of the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation were sent on leave for two months -- a step that the Media Institute of Southern Africa said ''can reasonably be perceived as the deliberate purging of journalists at the state broadcaster for the purposes of partisan political expediency.''
 The state news media's coverage of Mr. Tsvangirai, a former trade union leader who has led the opposition for almost a decade, is deeply hostile. He is typically depicted as a coward, a fool and a stooge of Britain, the former colonial power. Zimbabweans have a powerful informal grapevine, spurred by the technology of the text message, but rallies were Mr. Tsvangirai's principal means of communicating directly with voters.
 To tell a man like Mr. Tsvangirai he cannot speak at rallies is ''like telling a pastor not to read the Bible,'' said an opposition spokesman, Nelson Chamisa, who added, ''That's depriving a politician of the oxygen that helps keep a political institution alive and kicking.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Morgan Tsvangirai, the opposition presidential candidate, campaigning Friday. The police, citing concerns about safety for his party's leaders, ordered the cancellation of rallies he had planned.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TSVANGIRAYI MUKWAZHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FOOD CHARITIES (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (74%); FAMILY (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); ORPHANS (73%); FOOD PRICES (69%); AIDS & HIV (67%); TUBERCULOSIS (65%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (65%); ASSASSINATION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (83%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (55%); WORLD VISION (54%)

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (73%) ZIMBABWE (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



158 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Any Book Can Be a Rare Book in Bookstore-Hungry Newark

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
Bookstores here are so scarce that many readers have trouble naming one.
 Amiri Baraka, New Jersey's former poet laureate, buys books at the Montclair Book Center, nine miles away. The chancellor of Rutgers-Newark, Steven J. Diner, orders online or shops for books in New York City. Alix Takouezim, who moved here two years ago from Bayonne, says she often borrows books from friends or colleagues for her 7-year-old daughter and 4-year-old son.
 In 2007, Newark ranked last among the nation's 69 largest cities in the number of bookstores per capita, with 15 stores for 281,000 people, or 0.53 stores per 10,000 residents, according to a study titled ''America's Most Literate Cities,'' by Jack Miller, the president of Central Connecticut State University. (For what it's worth, New York City, well known for having many bookstores but also many people, ranked 63rd.) 
 Newark is a place that makes it difficult to browse rows of best sellers, to hear authors read their work, or to talk literature with a storekeeper who knows books. The city's biggest general-interest bookstore, New Jersey Books, closes at 4 p.m. on weekdays. Some of the best-stocked shelves are hidden in airport kiosks, past the security gate (and requiring a boarding pass).
 ''Newark needs bookstores,'' said Mayor Cory A. Booker, an avid reader who has tried, so far in vain, to bring a large Barnes & Noble to the city. ''It's a gathering place. They're community-fixers.'' 
 The city has plenty of readers; its library system's 10 branches drew more than a million visitors last year. And in Dr. Miller's study of literate cities, which considered factors like education, Internet use and local publications, Newark ranked 49th of 69 over all, helped by the library's popularity and the circulation of the city's daily newspaper, The Star-Ledger. 
 But the New Atlantic Independent Booksellers Association, a regional trade group with 300 members, has just one member in Newark (New Jersey Books); Buffalo, population 292,000, has 6 member bookstores, while Pittsburgh, with 334,000 people, has 19. 
 A glance at the local Yellow Pages would suggest that Newark has about a dozen stores that sell books. They are an eclectic lot, some housed in churches or in shops that sell other things (you can have a picture framed at Source of Knowledge, on Broad Street). 
 There is Hudson Books at the train station, and Borders outposts in Terminals A and C at Newark Liberty International Airport. Religious bookstores like Shaddai Christian and Vida Jesus dot the city. And there are a handful of smaller shops like Fortress of Solitude downtown, which brags of the largest collection of old comic books in the state, and Central do Brasil, in the Ironbound neighborhood, where about 100 Portuguese-language books are on sale between the children's flip-flops and canned hearts of palm.
 But it can be difficult to buy, say, a book about Newark in Newark. 
 A local literary treasure hunt turned up a book about the 1967 riots at the Rutgers bookstore, some blank stares at the train station and frustration at the New Jersey Historical Society, which said it had sold out of John T. Cunningham's ''Newark,'' a history that the society had published itself, but that was currently out of print. Finally, on a small shelf in the cavernous New Jersey Books downtown, there were a pictorial history of the city, a book about Newark's vanished Little Italy, and one remaining copy of Mr. Cunningham's ''Newark,'' all 408 pages, for $39. 
 But the benches in the store are often empty. The last book reading by an author was four years ago (Michael Baisden). The manager, Allen Roth, said that most of the store's revenue came from selling textbooks to college students. Holding a used copy of ''Macbeth,'' priced to move at $1, Mr. Roth said many city residents simply could not afford to buy books, adding, ''We send a lot of people to the library.''
 About a mile away, opposite Newark's new arena, is Source of Knowledge, whose owner, Dexter George, 43, has been running little bookstores here for much of his adult life. The most popular titles, he said, include books by the author Al-Saadiq Banks, a Newark native.
 ''Cashmere has just been released from federal prison,'' reads a summary on the back of Mr. Banks's ''Block Party,'' which is part of the ''True 2 Life'' series. ''After serving seven years, he has finally paid the government the debt he owed them. Now he wants what the streets owe him.'' 
 Mr. George, who is originally from Tobago, said that some of his customers ''relate to these books, because they tells stories about their lives.'' But books alone cannot keep the small store afloat; Mr. George also sells masks from Ghana and sculptures from Zimbabwe.
 Frank Murphy, 65, helped his wife run independent bookstores for years, including the small one in Newark's Pennsylvania Station, where, he said, he tried to create a neighborhood-bookstore feel in a place that people dashed through. Now Mr. Murphy, a fan of the Spanish novelist Arturo Perez-Reverte, helps students with their textbooks at the N.J.I.T. bookstore, which also sells candy, sweatshirts and best sellers 
 But he is pessimistic about the chances for a thriving bookstore culture in Newark. ''We're just a community that's used to malls,'' Mr. Murphy said. ''Downtown is not where it's at.''
 And yet Fortress of Solitude, that trove of old comics, has survived in Newark for 23 years. Set on an out-of-the-way stretch of Broad Street, the store is a destination for comic-lovers from all over New Jersey and New York, who come for new titles as well as issues that date to the 1970s. ''Secret Invasion,'' a new comic series that features shape-shifting aliens known as Skrulls, is a brisk seller, along with Manga cartoons. 
 ''My young readers keep me in the know,'' said Johanna Ramirez, the 31-year-old owner.
 At the Shaddai Bookstores, on Bloomfield Avenue, inspirational and religious books in Spanish and English fly off the shelves, and more personal advice is available from behind the counter. 
 ''If someone comes here with any problem, like alcohol or drugs, we send them to different churches,'' explained Juan Vasquez, the owner's son-in-law. ''We only sell books that give positive vibes.''
 Albert Greco, a professor at Fordham University and the author of the ''The Book Publishing Industry'' (Routledge, 2005), said that in a city like Newark, without a branch of a national bookstore chain, a college campus was the most likely location for a general-interest bookstore.
 Stefan Pryor, Newark's deputy mayor for economic development, said the city was pursuing exactly that option, and working with one or more of the local universities to lure a large bookstore. 
 One possibility, he said, was to house such a bookstore in a new residence hall that Seton Hall's law school is considering building.
 Dr. Diner, the Rutgers chancellor, said he envisioned a ''megastore'' on Broad Street selling books, college apparel and coffee, operated, like an increasing number of campus stores, by a Barnes & Noble or Borders.
 The 35,000 students who attend universities in Newark would provide a healthy portion of the business, Mr. Diner said. But to make a bookstore work, the readers of Newark would have to stop by, too. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New Jersey Books, top right, on Market Street downtown, is Newark's biggest general-interest bookstore, but it closes on weekdays at 4 p.m. An assortment of niche operations tries to fill the bookstore gap, including Source of Knowledge, top left, which also offers picture framing
Fortress of Solitude, above left, specializing in vintage comics
 and the Shaddai Christian Bookstore. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); RANKINGS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); BESTSELLERS (79%); LIBRARIES (78%); POETRY (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); AIRPORTS (70%); RELIGION (63%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



159 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET VALUES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Big Oil Is Owed Some Love

BYLINE: By CONRAD de AENLLE

 BODY:
WHO says everyone loves a winner? Big diversified oil companies are reporting enormous profits but they are receiving what seems to be a record amount of grief.
 Consumers curse them when they pay close to a hundred bucks to fill up their S.U.V.'s. For politicians at home and abroad, attacking Big Oil is useful for scoring points with the electorate and adding revenue to the treasury.
 Then there are investors, who have shown little enthusiasm lately for the three American supermajors. Crude oil is up 42 percent since the year began, but the best the supermajors are able to manage is an 8.1 percent gain for Chevron. ConocoPhillips is up 5.5 percent, and the biggest of the big oils, Exxon Mobil, is down 6.6 percent, barely beating the performance of the broad stock market. 
 Shareholders might have expected to do better from three companies that combined to produce net profits of $20 billion in the first quarter alone. Several factors could account for the stocks' mediocrity:
 The shares have flattened out only recently after rising sharply for several years. Investors may just be taking money off the table.
 Crude prices and profits for diversified oil companies do not move in lock step. Margins on refining and selling gasoline and other finished products can fall as crude becomes more expensive.
 Investors perceive a risk that with oil this expensive, the global economy could tank, sending crude lower and keeping it there.
 It is hard for big oil companies to increase production significantly, and new sources of supply tend to be in places that are expensive to reach. The high price of crude also drives up the cost of drilling for and transporting oil as service providers demand a bigger slice of an expanding pie.
 Political hostility -- most recently calls for a tax on ''windfall'' profits -- raises concern that companies will benefit less from major discoveries or more efficient operations.
 ''There are some heavy headwinds facing the majors,'' said Mark Freeman, a portfolio manager with the Westwood Holdings Group, who has turned neutral on them after being heavily invested in them since 2003. ''At this level,'' he said, ''they are not overly cheap or outrageously overvalued.''
 Mr. Freeman prefers smaller yet still diversified companies with stronger growth profiles than the supermajors, like Apache, which has interests in natural gas as well as oil, and Occidental Petroleum, which produces oil, gas and chemicals.
 John Buckingham, chief investment officer at Al Frank Asset Management, is a contrarian who is drawn to companies and industries that others may shun. He holds a number of energy stocks, from pure plays on the price of crude, like the drillers Transocean and Rowan, to the much safer supermajors.
 ''If you're concerned about the high price of oil and think we're in a bubble, the Exxons and Chevrons are going to be low-risk ways to invest, although you're not going to get rich on them,'' he said.
 TINA VITAL, an oil analyst at Standard & Poor's, finds the supermajors' shares sufficiently enriching to recommend buying all three, especially ConocoPhillips. She wishes people would give oil executives a break. ''Every time crude prices go up, they haul these oil guys in front of Congress,'' she said.
 She also thinks investors should show the stocks more love, too. They do not have the growth profile of a tiny exploration enterprise, Ms. Vital conceded, but she expects the supermajors' production to pick up soon. She forecasts 2 percent to 3 percent annual growth in the next few years, compared with just 1 percent a year for the industry as a whole.
 ''The supermajors are still a great place to be because they're starting to bring large projects on line that have been years in the making,'' she said. ''The supermajors are uniquely positioned to negotiate internationally and take part in technologically advanced projects in deep water and the Arctic, and they benefit from economies of scale. There is value to be had in them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); GLOBALIZATION (65%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); WESTWOOD HOLDINGS GROUP INC (52%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (51%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); WHG (NYSE) (52%); OXY (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (52%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (51%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



160 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2431 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times: June 7, 2008

 BODY:
International
 TRYING TO KEEP ALIVE
 The Language of a Dead Empire
 Quechua, once the lingua franca of the Incan Empire, is still alive, although it has no written alphabet and has long since been in decline. Demetrio Tupac Yupanqui, a theologian and professor, is trying to preserve the language through a groundbreaking translation of ''Don Quixote'' that linguists hope will keep Quechua's remaining speakers engaged with the wider world. PAGE A6 
 REFUGEES FLEE RISING WATERS
 Thousands of Chinese displaced by the powerful earthquake in Sichuan Province last month were forced to evacuate their tents as heavy rains fell and increased the likelihood of flooding. The threat of flooding came mainly from ''quake lakes,'' which were created by landslides during the initial earthquake. PAGE A8 
 TENSION BETWEEN TWO LEADERS
 Tensions between Russia and Georgia have been running high, and President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia warned the Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili that joining NATO would escalate the conflict between the two former Soviet states. The two leaders said they were capable of solving their issues without outside help, but Mr. Saakashvili did not back from his goal of joining NATO. PAGE A8
 national
 INDIAN WORKERS PROTEST
 Expansion of Work Visa Program
 A hunger strike by 16 metalworkers from India entered its fourth week in Washington. The workers say they were victims of human trafficking when they were brought to the United States under a temporary guest worker program, which is under debate as Congress considers an expansion. PAGE A9
 UNIVERSITY HEAD TO STEP DOWN
 The president of West Virginia University, Mike Garrison, announced that he would step down in September, a result of the controversy over an M.B.A. the university improperly awarded to the daughter of the governor, who is a longtime friend and former business associate of Mr. Garrison. The announcement signaled the end of a presidency that had faced resistance from the start. PAGE A12
 WE ARE WOMEN, HEAR US ROAR
 Now that the would-be first female president is ending her quest for the White House, the race is more about women than ever before. With Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton ending her campaign for the Democratic nomination, the presumptive nominees are moving to claim her followers -- especially her signature bloc, the millions of women who cast votes for her. PAGE A9
 NO HEART BENEFITS
 Two studies involving more than 21,000 people found that people with Type 2 diabetes had no reduction in their risk of heart attacks and strokes and no reduction in their death rate if they rigorously controlled their blood sugar levels. The findings bolster previous studies claiming that study participants who were rigorously controlling their blood sugar actually had a higher death rate than those whose blood sugar control was less stringent. PAGE A11
 Focusing More on Climate A12
 Parental Rights in Same-Sex Unions A9
 New York Report
 FEDERALIST WANTED FOR 'COZY' APT.
 No Pets, Please.
 They're common problems in Manhattan real estate: not enough trees, not enough space. That goes even for founding fathers like Alexander Hamilton, whose 206-year-old, 298-ton wood-frame house, called the Grange, will be rolled -- very slowly -- to a greener location a block away in St. Nicholas Park. PAGE A16
 RETHINKING SECURITY AFTER ASCENTS
 Executives of The New York Times Company undertook security studies in planning its new headquarters, but apparently never considered that the building could become a ladder for climbers, as it did twice on Thursday. The incidents raised concern in the construction industry about the opportunity that other skyscrapers may present to daredevils. PAGE A17
 Business
 JAPAN'S BUSINESSES SEE
 The Rise of the Whistleblower
 One of the ramifications of Japan's integration into the larger global economy has been the rise of the whistleblower, which was unheard of a decade ago. Those whistleblowers have brought attention to a seemingly endless series of scandals there. ''The company is losing its place at the center of the employee's universe,'' one employment lawyer said. PAGE B1
 SWEETENING THE COFFEE POT
 Starbucks is taking a page from the airline industry and instituting a loyalty program with rewards. Could it work for small ticket items like coffee? Experts say that given the sheer number of transactions at stake -- an average of 200 restaurant decisions per year by the average American -- it had better. PAGE B1 
 MEXICO'S MISSING WINDFALL
 Oil prices are at record highs, which should be a boon to an oil-rich nation like Mexico, and its state-owned oil monopoly was slated to record a $3 billion profit. It didn't, and many politicians were livid. The government says the missing profits are evidence of the monopoly's problems. But the political opposition says the government is fudging the numbers to bolster its case for private investment. PAGE B3
 WAL-MART REVELS IN LEAN TIMES
 Most companies have felt the pinch from the economic downturn. Not Wal-Mart. Customers have flocked to the retail behemoth in search of low prices -- which has prodded the chain's stubborn sales figures and sagging stock price. ''All of this success feels good, doesn't it?'' the company's chief executive said. Always. PAGE B2
 Obituaries
 HARRIET MCBRYDE JOHNSON, 50
 A writer and lawyer who became a champion for the rights of the disabled, she rose to prominence following a magazine profile that followed her as she debated a Princeton professor who argued that drastically disabled newborns could be killed. ''We take constraints that no one would choose and build rich and satisfying lives within them,'' she said of the disabled. ''We enjoy pleasures other people enjoy, and pleasures peculiarly our own.'' PAGE A15
 Sports
 BONDS TRIAL DATE SET
 Barry Bonds's trial is set to begin in March after he pleaded not guilty to charges of making false statements under oath about whether he used performance-enhancing drugs. For each of the 14 counts of making a false statement, Bonds faces a maximum of five years in prison. PAGE B10
 NEW FACES, BUT SAME OLD CELTICS
 They play in the TD Banknorth Garden, not the Boston Garden. Neither Larry Bird or Bill Russell is on the roster. But Harvey Araton said this year's Boston Celtics, who showed toughness and played stellar defense in the first game victory in the N.B.A. Finals, looked like some of the gritty teams in the storied franchise's past. ''They don't look great,'' analyst Jeff Van Gundy said. ''They just win.'' PAGE B9
 INJURED COLT EXPECTED TO START
 Most people agreed that Casino Drive is the horse with the best chance to thwart Big Brown's quest for the Triple Crown at the Belmont Stakes. That was before the colt suffered an injury to his left hind foot, but the possible spoiler's owners still expect him to start. ''Right now, we're in,'' the manager of Casino Drive's stable said. ''If he is not well, we will scratch him, of course.'' PAGE B13 
 Arts
 THE MARTIAL ART OF CHESS,
 Via the Wu-Tang Clan
 What happens when chess is combined with the aesthetic of kung-fu movies? Knights that look like martial artists fly through the air, for starters. That's the general idea of the digital chess pieces at wuchess.com, a site launched by RZA, one of the founders of the hip-hop group, The Wu-Tang Clan. The subscription site allows members to challenge other members, but some are already complaining that the entry fee is too costly. PAGE B1
 HEAVY ON THE ATMOSPHERE
 At the film festival called Cinespia, filmgoers eschew the air-conditioned comfort of the multiplex (and that mysterious butter-like popcorn topping) to watch the movies outdoors with the stars -- long dead stars, interred in a graveyard. ''The walk out is a little spooky,'' one attendee said. PAGE B1 
 MARRIED TO THE ARMY
 Very quietly, Lifetime's ''Army Wives'' has become something of a television phenomenon. Ginia Bellafante says that while the plots and dialogue have all the subtlety of a soap opera, the show succeeds in portraying the lives of working class women and the psychological impact of military culture on family life. ''The show never allows you to think that what you really want is a man in uniform,'' she writes. PAGE B4
 STANDING PAT IN CLEVELAND
 There's been plenty of upheaval in the orchestra world recently, with prominent outfits opting to place younger directors at the helm. Not so for the Cleveland Orchestra, which extended the contract of Franz Welser-Most, its musical director. But the move came as a surprise to many critics, who feel that Mr. Welser-Most has not yet entirely lived up to his potential. PAGE B1
 this weekend
 MAGAZINE
 A firm based in Rotterdam solves the problem of too many people on too small a planet by tunneling down, packing tight and making pigs fly. PAGE 54 
 Bernard Tschumi, the noted architect of such famed urban projects as the Parc de la Villette in Paris, answers questions about things like his favorite memento, travel habits and evening routine, but not last meal, an idea he refuses to contemplate. PAGE 42
 BOOK REVIEW
 If you are a potential reader of a novel about a woman's efforts to break the world record for serial fornication, or if you just like to read criticism that rips, there is Lucy Ellmann's review of ''Snuff,'' by Chuck Palahniuk. ''What the hell is going on?'' she asks as an opener. And then off she goes. PAGE 27
 Say a woman has two children, and one of them is a girl. If you think the odds of the other one being a girl are 50-50, then ''The Drunkard's Walk: How Randomness Rules Our Lives'' could be an eye-opener for you. PAGE 14
 ARTS & LEISURE
 Much has been made of late about the presence or lack of truth in memoirs, and among those under fire has been David Sedaris, who has a new book out. But this is a writer whose essays include one with a cat, hit by his mother's car, that comes back to life and talks to her. He pleads not guilty by reason of humor. PAGE 1
 They are the kinds of matches perhaps made often in heaven, but all too rarely in Hollywood: the just-right actor in the just-right role. Ginia Bellafante takes a look at eight in the TV season just past, including one that explored the malevolent side of the fellow who used to tend bar in ''Cheers.'' The Emmys special section. PAGE 4
 With much of television having abandoned -- or never adhered to -- the traditional season, quite a number of new programs or new episodes of old programs will be popping up this summer. Here's just one: Sgt. Robbie Lewis of ''Morse'' fame gets a promotion and his own show, kicking off ''Masterpiece Mystery!'' PAGE 9
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 Mary Parent, the new chairwoman of MGM's motion picture group, is being asked to turn MGM into a player, and do it quickly. That will be no mean feat at a studio that has billions of dollars in debt and a host of other financial challenges, and hasn't fit the profile of a full-fledged production company in years. PAGE 1
 Meatballs tainted with deadly E. coli bacteria sickened some people who ate at a smorgasbord of the Salem Lutheran Church in Longville, Minn., and one woman died. Nebraska Beef, which provided the meat, is being sued as the culprit. But the company says the volunteer church women who prepared the food were to blame. PAGE 4
 TRAVEL
 The idea takes its inspiration from an essay written two decades ago by two professors who suggested restoring the Upper Midwest to its native state, which they called the Buffalo Commons, and largely replacing agriculture in the region with eco-tourism. And while not everyone agrees with some elements, preservation efforts have taken off. PAGE 3
 If rising transportation costs and sinking dollar values haven't totally scotched your summer travel plans, you may find that some bargains are still available. Las Vegas hotel rooms are going begging. Don't want the heat? Go counterintuitive: try a winter resort in Colorado or Vermont. And some cities are offering packages. PAGE 6
 There are those who attend major league baseball games and, oddly enough, look for something other than peanuts, hot dogs and Cracker Jack to eat. Herein is a list of the hits and misses to guide you (or argue about, if you have personal knowledge) at all the big league parks. PAGE 1
 STYLES
 Collectors used to show up the night before the preview party for Art Basel, the highest-profile of the international art fairs. But that turned out to be not enough time for the kind of high-level socializing that amounts to foreplay for the core of the art industry, and they're showing up earlier and earlier. PAGE 1
 As record sales plunge, musicians are making more of their money from concert tours. And for some musicians -- say, Pat DiNizio, the lead singer of the Smithereens -- a concert stop might be singing greatest hits in somebody's living room for a 40th birthday party. PAGE 2
 Two new books by two very different couples take up the issue of ''the sex-starved marriage'' and what to do about it. Both have the same advice: have more sex. Like, every day, for 101 straight days. Or 365. It's supposed to promote bonding. PAGE 1
 Editorial
 RAISING THE BAR AT THE PENTAGON
 It's not often in American politics or government that officials are held accountable. The decision by Robert Gates, the defense secretary, to fire the top two Air Force leaders on Thursday -- after failures to secure nuclear weapons -- was as surprising as it was commendable. PAGE A26
 TRYING TO SLIDE OUT OF TOWN
 Hope seems to be fading that New York's Legislature will shake itself out of a very strange year and do something good for the state. PAGE A26
 THE CONS OF CREATIONISM
 The Texas Board of Education is considering a science curriculum that teaches the ''strengths and weaknesses'' of evolution. It has the advantage of sounding more balanced than teaching ''intelligent design.'' It has the disadvantage of being nonsense. PAGE A26
 Op-Ed
 BOB HERBERT
 We should savor the wonder of this moment: the historic achievement of Barack Obama capturing the Democratic presidential nomination, and Hillary Clinton coming close. PAGE A27
 GAIL COLLINS
 I get asked all the time whether I think Hillary Clinton lost because sexism is worse than racism in this country. The answer is no. She lost because Barack Obama ran a smarter, better-organized campaign. But if Barack had failed in his attempt to make history by becoming the first African-American presidential nominee, you can bet we'd have treated his defeat with the dignity it deserved. PAGE A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (79%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); LINGUISTICS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); LANDSLIDES (75%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (71%); REFUGEES (71%); WEATHER (70%); WOMEN (66%); HEART DISEASE (64%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (63%); DIABETES (63%); STROKES (60%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (60%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (60%); RELIGION (57%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (85%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



161 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Water-Starved California Slows Development; Law Requires 20-Year Supply

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: PERRIS, Calif. 

 BODY:
As California faces one of its worst droughts in two decades, building projects are being curtailed for the first time under state law by the inability of developers to find long-term water supplies. 
 Water authorities and other government agencies scattered throughout the state, including here in sprawling Riverside County, east of Los Angeles, have begun denying, delaying or challenging authorization for dozens of housing tracts and other developments under a state law that requires a 20-year water supply as a condition for building.
 California officials suggested that the actions were only the beginning, and they worry about the impact on a state that has grown into an economic powerhouse over the last several decades.
 The state law was enacted in 2001, but until statewide water shortages, it had not been invoked to hold up projects. 
 While previous droughts and supply problems have led to severe water cutbacks and rationing, water officials said the outright refusal to sign off on projects over water scarcity had until now been virtually unheard of on a statewide scale.
 ''Businesses are telling us that they can't get things done because of water,'' Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, said in a telephone interview. 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Schwarzenegger declared an official statewide drought, the first such designation since 1991. As the governor was making his drought announcement, the Eastern Municipal Water District in Riverside County -- one of the fastest-growing counties in the state in recent years -- gave a provisional nod to nine projects that it had held up for months because of water concerns. The approval came with the caveat that the water district could revisit its decision, and only after adjustments had been made to the plans to reduce water demand.
 ''The statement that we're making is that this isn't business as usual,'' said Randy A. Record, a water district board member, at the meeting here in Perris.
 Shawn Jenkins, a developer who had two projects caught up in the delays, said he was accustomed to piles of paperwork and reams of red tape in getting projects approved. But he was not prepared to have the water district hold up the projects he was planning. He changed the projects' landscaping, to make it less water dependent, as the board pondered their fate.
 ''I think this is a warning for everyone,'' Mr. Jenkins said.
 Also in Riverside County, a superior court judge recently stopped a 1,500-home development project, citing, among others things, a failure to provide substantial evidence of adequate water supply. 
 In San Luis Obispo County, north of Los Angeles, the City of Pismo Beach was recently denied the right to annex unincorporated land to build a large multipurpose project because, ''the city didn't have enough water to adequately serve the development,'' said Paul Hood, the executive officer of the commission that approves the annexations and incorporations of cities.
 In agriculturally rich Kern County, north of Los Angeles, at least three developers scrapped plans recently to apply for permits, realizing water was going to be an issue. An official from the county's planning department said the developers were the first ever in the county to be stymied by water concerns. Large-scale housing developments in Santa Barbara and San Luis Obispo Counties have met a similar fate, officials in those counties said. 
 Throughout the state, other projects have been suspended or are being revised to accommodate water shortages, and water authorities and cities have increasingly begun to consider holding off on ''will-serve'' letters -- promises to developers to provide water -- for new projects.
 ''The water in our state is not sufficient to add more demand,'' said Lester Snow, the director of the California Department of Water Resources. ''And that now means that some large development can't go forward. If we don't make changes with water, we are going to have a major economic problem in this state.''
 The words ''crisis'' and ''water'' have gone together in this state since the 49ers traded flecks of gold for food. But several factors have combined to make the current water crisis more acute than those of recent years.
 An eight-year drought in the Colorado River basin has greatly impinged on water supply to Southern California. Of the roughly 1.25 million acre-feet of water that the region normally imports from that river toward the 4.5 million acre-feet it uses each year, 500,000 has been lost to drought, said Jeff Kightlinger, the general manager of the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California. 
 Even more significant, a judge in federal district court last year issued a curtailment in pumping from the California Delta -- where the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers meet and provide water to roughly 25 million Californians -- to protect a species of endangered smelt that were becoming trapped in the pumps. Those reductions, from December to June, cut back the state's water reserves this winter by about one third, according to a consortium of state water boards. 
 The smelt problem was a powerful indicator of the environmental fallout from the delta's water system, which was constructed over 50 years ago for a far smaller population. 
 ''We have bad hydrology, compromised infrastructure and our management tools are broken,'' said Timothy Quinn, the executive director of the Association of California Water Agencies. ''All that paints a fairly grim picture for Californians trying to manage water in the 21st century.''
 The 2001 state water law, which took effect in 2002, requires developers to prove that new projects have a plan for providing at least 20 years' worth of water before local water authorities can sign off on them. With the recent problems, more and more local governments are unable to simply approve projects. 
 ''Water is one of our most difficult issues when we are evaluating large-scale projects,'' said Lorelei Oviatt, the division chief for the Kern County Planning Department. In cases where developers are unable to present a long-term water plan, ''then certainly I can't recommend they approve'' those developments, Ms. Oviatt said.
 As the denied building permits indicate, the lack of sufficient water sources could become a serious threat to economic development in California, where the population in 2020 is projected to reach roughly 45 million people, economists say, from its current 38 million. In the end, as water becomes increasingly scarce, its price will have to rise, bringing with it a host of economic consequences, the economists said.
 ''Water has been seriously under-priced in California,'' said Edward E. Leamer, a professor at the Anderson School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''When you ration it or increase its price, it will have an impact on economic growth.''
 The water authority for Southern California recently issued a rate increase of 14.3 percent, when including surcharges, which was the highest rate increase in the last 15 years. In Northern California, rates in Marin County increased recently by nearly 10 percent, in part to pay an 11 percent increase in the cost of water bought from neighboring Sonoma County.
 Interest groups that oppose development have found that raising water issues is among the many bats in their bags available to beat back projects they find distasteful.
 ''Certainly from Newhall Ranch's standpoint, water was a key point that our opponents were focused on,'' said Marlee Lauffer, a spokeswoman for Newhall Ranch, a large-scale residential development in the works is Santa Clarita, north of Los Angeles. The City of Los Angeles, among others, has opposed the development. 
 To get around the problem, Newhall Ranch's planners decided to forgo water supplied through the state and turn instead to supplies from an extensive water reclamation plant as well as water bought privately. Other developers, like Mr. Jenkins, have changed their landscaping plans to reduce water needs and planned for low-flow plumbing to placate water boards. 
 Mr. Schwarzenegger sees addressing the state's water problem as one of his key goals, and he is hoping against the odds to get a proposed $11.9 billion bond for water management investments through the Legislature and before voters in November. 
 The plans calls for water conservation and quality improvement programs, as well as a resource management plan for the delta. Among its most controversial components is $3.5 billion earmarked for new water storage, something that environmentalists have vehemently opposed, in part because they find dams and storage facilities environmentally unsound and not cost effective.
 The critics also point out that the state's agriculture industry, which uses far more water than urban areas, is being asked to contribute little to conservation under the governor's plans. As more building projects are derailed by water requirements, the pressure on farmers to share more of their water is expected to grow.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Water-use concerns held up construction of developments like the Quail Ranch Golf Course residential project in Moreno Valley, Calif. It was one of nine projects for which developers had to revise water-use plans in order to gain approval in Riverside County.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (91%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); DROUGHT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); EVIDENCE (60%)

COMPANY: EASTERN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (54%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (54%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



162 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: After Verbal Fire, Senate Effectively Kills Climate Change Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Before the anticlimactic demise on Friday of legislation to combat global warming, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, called climate change ''the most important issue facing the world today.'' Senator George V. Voinovich, Republican of Ohio, a critic of the bill, nonetheless called it ''the most significant piece of legislation to ever come out of the Environment and Public Works Committee.''
 Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, said the effort to limit heat-trapping gases was ''one of the greatest challenges of our generation.'' Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, said in a statement, ''The future of our planet is at stake.'' 
 And even Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, the leading opponent of the legislation, called it ''probably the largest bill ever considered by the Senate in its impact on the economy and our way of life.''
 And so it was, with a chorus of Senate voices having proclaimed the urgency and importance of the issue that the Great Climate Change Debate of 2008 ended on Friday morning, after three and a half days, with a procedural vote that effectively shelved the bill until next year. A motion by Democrats to end debate and move to a final vote, requiring 60 votes to succeed, fell far short, with 48 senators in favor and 36 against. 
 The bill would cap the production of heat-trapping gases and force polluters to buy permits to emit carbon dioxide. Critics, including many Republican senators, said it would raise energy prices, including the cost of oil, at a time when Americans are struggling with record gasoline prices. 
 But there were also critics at the other end of the political spectrum who said the bill's limits on carbon emissions were not strict enough. They said the legislation would allow some industries to prosper while forcing average Americans to pay higher energy prices. 
 The result left lawmakers pointing fingers at one another. Democrats said Republicans had obstructed their efforts to address a most crucial issue, while Republicans said the Democrats were never serious about passing the bill, as evidenced by their unwillingness to allow a serious and lengthy debate over amendments.
 Environmental groups, meanwhile, were left struggling to read the tea leaves of yet another procedural step by the Senate, which has been called the world's greatest deliberative body but can also be its most mercurial and maddening.
 In a speech on the Senate floor on Thursday, the Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, mocked the Democrats as trumpeting the magnitude of the climate change but then seeking to cut off debate and move swiftly to a final vote.
 ''What are they afraid of?'' Mr. McConnell asked. ''Why don't they want to consider amendments to a bill addressing what they call 'the most important issue facing the world today?' If it is the most important issue facing the world today, it certainly deserves a lot longer debate than a few days.''
 Dana Perino, the White House press secretary, echoed Mr. McConnell's remarks at her daily briefing. 
 The Democrats insisted that comments by Mr. McConnell and other Republicans were disingenuous because Republicans never intended to allow an open and honest debate, never intended to allow the bill to come to a final vote, never intended to support it regardless of what amendments were made, and had no intention of pressuring President Bush, who had made clear that he would not sign the bill. 
 ''They do not want to address the most important issue of the day, so they stalled,'' Mr. Reid said, noting that Republicans insisted on having the entire nearly 500-page bill read aloud on Wednesday. ''They are doing everything they can to maintain the status quo.'' 
 Some lawmakers and experts on the national debate on climate said there was merit in bringing the bill to the Senate floor for what amounted to a trial run, drawing out supporters and opponents and their particular concerns. 
 ''We have a road map as to where our colleagues are,'' said Mrs. Boxer, who was a main sponsor of the bill with Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut. ''We will give the road map to the next president so he knows where our colleagues are and where are the consensus areas and where are the difficult areas.'' 
 But even after the vote, it was hard to discern where many lawmakers stood, with 10 Democrats among the 48 senators who voted to close debate saying they would have opposed the bill had it come to a final vote.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John W. Warner winked at Senator Joseph I. Lieberman as he was met by Senators John Kerry, left, and Barbara Boxer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); GASOLINE PRICES (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); HARRY REID (73%); JOHN WARNER (73%); BARBARA BOXER (73%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); JIM INHOFE (58%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



163 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: As Ills Persist, Afghan Leader Is Losing Luster

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
After six years in which Hamid Karzai has been the darling of the United States and its allies, his luster may be fading.
 Next week, Mr. Karzai, the Afghan president, is to arrive in Paris for a donors conference with attendees from 80 countries and organizations. He will ask for $50 billion to finance a five-year development plan intended to revive Afghanistan's decrepit farming sector, promote economic development and diversify the economy away from its heavy reliance on opium.
 But there is a growing concern in Europe, the United Nations and even the Bush administration that Mr. Karzai, while well-spoken, colorful and often larger than life, is not up to addressing Afghanistan's many troubles. 
 A senior State Department official questioned whether Mr. Karzai had the ''trust and the backbone'' for the job. 
 ''Of course he's a good guy, and therefore as long as he's president we'll support him,'' said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the issue. ''But there's a lot of talk inside the administration saying maybe there's a need for some tough love to push him to do the right thing.''
 One European diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity under normal diplomatic rules, said, ''We've got the standard administration problem of fascination with a flawed figure.'' The diplomat likined the support for Mr. Karzai to American backing for President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan.
 American officials expressed particular frustration over the Afghan president's refusal to arrest drug lords who are running the country's opium trade, which many international observers believe the Taliban have used to fuel their comeback. At both the State Department and the Pentagon, some officials are saying that President Bush should use the financial leverage of American aid to Afghanistan to demand that Mr. Karzai do more to crack down on corruption.
 One senior Bush administration official said that Mr. Bush remained enamored of Mr. Karzai. Others questioned whether the White House would endorse a tougher line against him at a time when international forces in Afghanistan are continuing to face a resurgent Taliban, and when there are no obvious pro-American alternatives to Mr. Karzai among Afghan leaders. 
 Still, Mr. Bush has sought to address some of the complaints. Two months ago he began holding twice-monthly video conference calls with his Afghan counterpart that are similar to his regular sessions with Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, the Iraqi prime minister. 
 Asked to comment about Mr. Karzai, a White House spokesman, Gordon D. Johndroe, said, ''President Bush appreciates the work that he's doing in Afghanistan, but we all know that there is more to be done.''
 Afghanistan's ambassador to the United States, Said T. Jawad, defended Mr. Karzai's leadership and warned against pointing fingers at a fledgling government. ''It's totally unnecessary to start a blame game,'' Mr. Jawad said. 
 According to American and European diplomats, recent tension has flared around an episode that received little attention outside Afghanistan and that involved Mr. Karzai's refusal to arrest a notorious Uzbek warlord, Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum.
 General Dostum is said to have attacked a rival warlord with a beer bottle this year, almost killing him, and Afghan law enforcement officials sought to arrest him. But Mr. Karzai's government balked, according to Western diplomats and Afghan officials. 
 The diplomats -- American and European, who spoke on condition of anonymity -- said that they urged Mr. Karzai to have General Dostum arrested but that he told them he did not want to pick a fight with General Dostum for fear of alienating his backers.
 Richard C. Holbrooke, a former United States ambassador to the United Nations, said he confronted Mr. Karzai shortly after the Dostum dustup while on a trip to Afghanistan. Mr. Holbrooke said he had asked Mr. Karzai how he could ''let the thugs back you down over a murderous warlord'' Mr. Karzai, he said, responded with a shrug.
 A senior Afghan official said that Mr. Karzai wanted to arrest General Dostum but decided not to do so because of the strength of forces loyal to General Dostum in northern Afghanistan and because of uneasiness among NATO officials in Afghanistan.
 In an interview, Mr. Holbrooke said he saw the episode as ''a metaphor for a government that's perceived as increasingly weak, but whose effectiveness is key to success in Afghanistan.'' He added, ''I don't believe the Taliban can win in Afghanistan, because people remember what they really stand for, but the government as it currently functions can't win, either.''
 Administration officials said the recent sessions between Mr. Bush and Mr. Karzai had been constructive but had yet to produce any tangible steps against corruption. 
 The Afghan president operates from a heavily fortified presidential palace, and has not arrested any drug lords or warlords, while resisting international pressure for a strong coordinator to monitor the political, economic and military effort in Afghanistan. Mr. Karzai has insisted that Afghanistan's fledgling government should handle the bulk of the job of deciding how to spend international aid.
 Bush administration officials and their British counterparts are still fuming over Mr. Karzai's rejection this year of the British diplomat Paddy Ashdown as a special envoy. The West had pushed him as it searched for a strong international figure, a la George C. Marshall, to help coordinate the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
 Afghan officials said Mr. Ashdown had been rejected because of negative press and public reaction to his appointment, which touched on Afghan sensitivities about foreign interference and fears of colonial intentions by Britain and others. 
 But European and American diplomats said it had more to do with Mr. Karzai's desire, one year before Afghan elections, to improve his image by standing up to Western powers. The diplomats complained that the international community, with more than 62,000 troops in Afghanistan, had a right to demand a strong coordinator representing its interest in the country.
 A senior United States military officer in Afghanistan said that the disillusionment with Mr. Karzai was palpable among the wide swath of people he dealt with, including allied military and civilian officials. ''Their message is consistent,'' the officer said in an e-mail message, speaking on condition of anonymity because of diplomatic sensitivity. ''He's a weak leader.''
 Frustration over corruption and ineffectiveness in Mr. Karzai's government has grown within Afghanistan as well in recent years. In 2006, for instance, members of the Afghan Parliament signed a measure of protest over the government's poor performance and the low quality of some of Mr. Karzai's appointments.
 Western diplomats said that Afghan drug lords and warlords had bought the freedom they exercise throughout the country by bribing members of Mr. Karzai's government. 
 Gen. James L. Jones, a former NATO commander in Afghanistan who now works as one of Mr. Bush's Middle East envoys, said that while the NATO forces military had been making some strides against insurgents, no amount of additional troops would counter the Afghan government's inability to rein in corruption and the country's exploding opium cultivation.
 ''The Karzai government, which is benefiting so much from the sacrifice, in both treasure and lives, by so many countries, needs to show more willingness to meet the expectations of the international community,'' General Jones said in an interview. ''This is particularly true with regard to reversing the nation's economic dependency on narcotics, battling corruption within the government and championing judicial reform as a matter of national security.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hamid Karzai, at a NATO ceremony in Kabul on Tuesday, has been criticized for failing to arrest powerful drug lords. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SELTAN MOHAMMAD/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALIBAN (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); OPIUM (75%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (75%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); CORRUPTION (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



164 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Europe Fears a Post-Bush Unilateralism, This Time on Trade

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
The Democrats' vocal hostility to trade is starting to scare many of America's best friends. As Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton have bashed China and a variety of free trade agreements, allies who have been yearning for an end to President Bush's in-your-face unilateralism are worried that a Democratic president may be just as undiplomatic, and unreasonable, when it comes to economic protectionism. 
 ''It is very irresponsible, in my view, to pretend to people that we can disengage from international trade,'' Peter Mandelstam, the European trade commissioner, warned in a May interview with the BBC. 
 It would be a mistake to brush all this off as mere campaign posturing. The United States remains as open to trade as its European allies, and in some areas it has even fewer restrictions. But the question is, for how long? 
 Despite economists' assurances about trade's many benefits, American workers increasingly view globalization as a losing battle against China's cheap labor and a very personal threat to their wages and jobs. According to a poll this spring by The New York Times and CBS News, 68 percent of Americans favor putting restrictions on free trade to protect domestic industries. That is the highest share since they began asking the question in the 1980s, and 12 percentage points more than in 2000. 
 Workers in other rich nations feel less threatened. Only 14 percent of Americans surveyed last year by the Pew Global Attitudes Project said increasing trade was ''very good'' for the country. That's less than half the share in Canada, Germany or Sweden. Even among the French, who tend to see capitalism as gauche and occasionally drive tractors into their local McDonalds, 22 percent said more trade was very good. 
 The issue isn't the amount of trade. European countries actually trade much more than the United States. But their citizens appear to be more comfortable with the idea because their governments provide a stronger safety net to catch workers undercut by foreign competition and redistribute the gains from trade more equitably. 
 In the United States, public spending on social programs, from unemployment insurance to health care, amounts to about 17 percent of the overall economy. This is about half the level in Germany and less than almost every other rich nation. America's meager social safety net and its winner-take-all distribution of riches means workers have less to gain from trade's benefits and more to lose from any disruption.
 Most economists agree that trade plays a small role in the deteriorating fortunes of less educated American workers. But as their wages have sagged, their pensions have shrunk and their health insurance has disappeared, trade has become the scapegoat. Politicians, especially but not solely from the Democratic Party, have been eager to capitalize on those anxieties.
 Just this week, Democrats in the House and Senate proposed a bill that would require the president to submit plans to renegotiate all current trade agreements -- before Congress considered any pending agreements and before the president negotiated any new ones. In April, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi decided to change the rules guiding approval of free trade agreements to stall the approval of one with Colombia.
 The United States has an enormous stake in maintaining an open global economy. Trade means export markets for American products, as well as cheap imports for American companies and consumers. Foreign competition helps spur productivity, which has driven the spectacular increase in American living standards since World War II. 
 Before this country stumbles into a trade war, all political leaders would benefit from a careful examination of how other wealthy democracies have found ways to cushion economic blows on the most vulnerable and make trade more palatable to their workers. 
 More generous social policies are a far better choice than protectionism.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A June 7 Editorial Observer about European concerns over rising protectionism in the United States misidentified the European Union's trade commissioner. He is Peter Mandelson, not Mandelstam.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



165 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Down for 5th Month; Oil's Rise Adds to Gloom

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
The unemployment rate surged to 5.5 percent in May from 5 percent -- the sharpest monthly spike in 22 years -- as the economy lost 49,000 jobs, registering a fifth consecutive month of decline, the Labor Department reported Friday.
 The weak jobs report, coupled with a staggering rise in the price of oil -- up a record $10.75 a barrel to more than $138 -- unleashed a feverish sell-off on Wall Street, sending the Dow Jones industrial average down nearly 400 points. The dollar plunged against several major currencies. 
 Investors' recent hopes that the United States might yet skirt a recession sank swiftly in the face of gloomy indications that the economy is gripped by a slowdown and pressured by record fuel prices.
 For tens of millions of Americans struggling to pay bills, the jobs report added an official stamp of authority to a dispiriting reality they already know: A deteriorating labor market is eliminating paychecks just as they are needed to compensate for the soaring cost of food and fuel, and as the fall in house prices hacks away at household wealth and access to credit. 
 ''It's unambiguously ugly,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at the research and trading firm ITG. ''The average American already knows that gas prices are up a ton and it's really hard to find a job. Sally and Sam on Main Street are already well aware of this, and that's why sentiment surveys are lower than they were in each of the last two recessions.''
 President Bush acknowledged the jump in unemployment as an indication of ''slow economic growth,'' but he held out hope that $100 billion in tax rebates now being distributed to American households would spur spending and generate jobs.
 ''We're beginning to see the signs that the stimulus may be working,'' Mr. Bush said during a swearing-in ceremony for the housing secretary, Steven C. Preston. 
 In a presidential election year in which the economy has emerged as a crucial issue, both major candidates used the employment data as an opportunity to criticize their opponent's governing philosophy.
 ''The wrong change for our country would be an economic agenda based upon the policies of the past that advocate higher taxes,'' said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, in a written statement. ''To help families at this critical time, we cannot afford to go backward as Senator Obama advocates.''
 Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, called the labor report ''a reminder that working families continue to bear the brunt of the failed Bush economic policies that John McCain wants to continue,'' in a statement. ''We can't afford John McCain's plan to spend billions of dollars on tax breaks for big corporations and wealthy C.E.O.'s.''
 Democrats on Capitol Hill and advocates for the unemployed pointed to the spike in joblessness in arguing for the swift extension of federal unemployment insurance. 
 Among the 8.55 million people who were unemployed in May, 1.55 million had been unemployed for 27 weeks or longer. Unemployment benefits now expire after 26 weeks. An Iraq war financing bill approved by the Senate includes a provision that would extend cash benefits for an additional 13 weeks.
 ''It would show a new level of callousness by Congress, a new level of disconnect between Washington and the rest of the country, not to pass an extension now,'' said Andrew Stettner, executive director of the National Employment Law Project, an advocacy group.
 The White House has said it would veto the bill for imposing deadlines on the withdrawal of troops from Iraq. The administration also argues that jobless benefits should not be extended, with the unemployment rate still low by historical measures. Tony Fratto, a White House spokesman, said Friday's report did not change that position.
 The spike in joblessness significantly cooled talk that the Federal Reserve could stop worrying about recession and might soon begin to raise interest rates to choke off rising prices for crucial goods like gasoline and food.
 Since last fall, as fears of recession have grown along with the financial turmoil resulting from falling home prices, the Fed has cut interest rates to encourage investment and spur economic activity. A chorus of economists has warned that the Fed has unleashed too much easy money, feeding inflation and driving down the dollar. Some have suggested the Fed might have to reverse course and raise rates. Not anymore, as the labor market continues to offer up evidence of enduring trouble. 
 ''There's a greater chance of peace breaking out in the Middle East,'' said Mr. Barbera, the ITG economist. 
 The report fleshed out how economic troubles that began with falling home prices have rippled out to other areas of the economy -- to shopping malls, grocery stores and home improvement outlets. As merchants cut payrolls in response to declining business, that takes purchasing power out of the economy, reinforcing a downward spiral of retrenchment.
 Professional and business services -- which include lawyers, accountants, architects and management consultants -- led the way down in May, shedding 39,000 jobs, according to the report. Construction declined by 34,000.
 Manufacturing lost 26,000 jobs. Retail payrolls shrank by 27,000 and transportation and warehousing by 10,500. Finance and insurance lost 3,700 jobs, amid continuing worries that more red ink lies in wait for banks.
 Sallie Mae, the giant provider of student loans, last month shut an office in Mount Laurel, N.J., eliminating jobs for 160 people, the company said. Among those joining the ranks of the unemployed was Brenda Davis, who earned $17 an hour there, and whose husband is disabled, making her the sole breadwinner.
 Given that she worked in the collections department, Ms. Davis figures she carries skills that are always in demand, even in a shrinking market.
 ''As long as people are going to be in debt, there's going to be a need for collectors,'' she said.
 But Ms. Davis's realm of potential jobs has effectively been shrunk by the price of gasoline. She commuted to New Jersey from her home in Philadelphia, a roughly 40-minute drive that took $60 a week in gas and tolls. As she looks for the next job, she must stay closer to home.
 ''With gasoline being $4 a gallon,'' she said, ''I want to stay in the city.''
 The jobs picture has become particularly punishing for more vulnerable communities, with unemployment among African-Americans leaping to 9.7 percent in May from 8.6 percent in April . Over the same period, joblessness among those ages 16 to 19 climbed to 18.7 percent from 15.4 percent.
 Health care remained a bright spot, adding 33,900 jobs in May, while restaurants and bars added 11,400 jobs.
 Even those with jobs have been losing ground. Average hourly wages for rank-and-file American workers -- roughly 80 percent of the American work force -- nudged up to $17.94 in May, an increase of about 3.5 percent compared to a year earlier. But over the same period, rising food and gas prices contributed to inflation of roughly 4 percent, more than canceling out the buying power of the extra wages. 
 The White House and some economists questioned the validity of the spike in unemployment, noting a surge in people counted as entering the labor force. Some suggested the Labor Department might have botched the statistical adjustments it uses to cancel out seasonal fluctuations in employment, perhaps inflating the effect of graduating college students looking for their first jobs.
 ''I think this move is exaggerated,'' said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at the trading and research firm MKM Partners. New unemployment claims, while recently rising above 370,000 a week, are still not consistent with such a dramatic surge in joblessness, he said.
 Others saw the report as catching up with other indicators that have spelled weakness, such as plunging consumer confidence.
 The unemployment rate does not count people who have given up looking for work. Over all, the percentage of working age Americans employed dropped to 62.6 percent in May from 63 percent a year earlier. 
 In recent months, many companies have been cutting working hours for those on their payrolls, eschewing layoffs while hoping the economy improves. 
 ''Companies didn't have so many people on their payrolls to shrink in the first place,'' said Ed McKelvey, an economist at Goldman Sachs, adding that American businesses have been hiring tepidly for years.
 In May, those working part time because they could not find full-time work or because of slack business nudged up to 5.23 million, from 5.22 million. But that was a much smaller increase than in the previous month, a possible sign that businesses are running out of hours to cut: next, they may have to resort to layoffs on a larger scale.
 ''This is what happens when an economy grows solidly below trend for six months,'' said Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute in Washington. ''Employers cut back first on hours, then on jobs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Looking at listings at a Los Angeles job fair. Federal officials said Friday that the unemployment rate rose to 5.5 percent in May from 5 percent in April, the sharpest monthly gain in 22 years.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RIC FRANCIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A14) CHARTS: Economic Indicators Worsen: On Friday, the unemployment rate jumped to 5.5 percent, the price of oil rose over $10 in trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, above, and the Dow industrials fell over 3 percent.(Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
Bloomberg) Chart details unemployment rates, percent of oil, and dow statistics in line graphs.
 The Labor Picture in May. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart details rates and demographics for employment and unemployment. (pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); RECESSION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); TAX RELIEF (86%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (69%); TAX LAW (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



166 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Smiles All Around at Wal-Mart's Annual Meeting

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM and MICHAEL BARBARO

DATELINE: FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. 

 BODY:
The dark days are over at Wal-Mart, or at least that was the message at the retailer's relentlessly upbeat shareholder meeting here Friday.
 After three tumultuous years filled with embarrassing public relations dust-ups and sluggish business performance, the nation's largest private company relished a turnaround on both fronts.
 ''All of this success feels good, doesn't it?'' said H. Lee Scott Jr., the chief executive of Wal-Mart Stores. 
 Not long ago, the company's monthly sales refused to budge, and neither did its stock price. Wal-Mart, it was said, had hit a wall.
 But the slowing economy has proved a boon to Wal-Mart, as consumers squeezed by higher fuel and food costs have flocked to the chain known for low prices.
 Once inside, executives said, those shoppers found less-cluttered aisles, shorter checkout lines and cleaner stores, the result of big investments over the last two years.
 Sales have surged, even as competitors like Target and J. C. Penney have sputtered. On Thursday, the company said that sales at stores open at least a year rose 3.9 percent in May, surpassing even the rosiest predictions on Wall Street.
 The chain's stock price, which hit a low of $42.27 last September, closed on Friday at $58.37, a gain of 38 percent in nine months.
 Thomas M. Schoewe, the chief financial officer, said Wal-Mart's performance was ''nothing short of remarkable.''
 Like its stock price, Wal-Mart's image has begun to reverse direction. The chain has won over many longtime critics with a series of prominent reforms. It has expanded its employee health care plans and started selling 30-day prescriptions of generic drugs for $4 each, forcing its rivals to match those prices.
 And it has made sweeping commitments to the environment, like reducing energy use, waste and carbon emissions.
 Labor groups still complain that Wal-Mart's wages are stingy and its benefits do not befit a company with $12 billion in annual profit. But even the company's union-financed critics, like Wal-Mart Watch, are acknowledging progress, if grudgingly. 
 Mr. Scott said: ''It is clear that today people look at Wal-Mart as a solution. And we want to be seen that way. We want to act that way.''
 He acknowledged that Wal-Mart had faltered over the last few years, when it failed to meet the expectations of its customers, critics and investors. Given its huge size, many wanted Wal-Mart to become a leader in health care and the environment, not a laggard. They also craved better financial performance.
 ''People's expectations of us -- and of corporations in general -- changed,'' Mr. Scott said. ''And we found ourselves playing catch up. We can never let that happen again.''
 The company took pains to emphasize its next big opportunity: international growth. The company has stores in more than a dozen countries like Brazil, Canada and China and is making inroads into Russia and India, two countries where American chains have little presence.
 But Wal-Mart has struggled in other countries, like South Korea and Germany. It pulled out of both in the last three years, and it was frustrated by its experience in Japan. Mr. Scott said that ''some may wonder whether our model and mission can work everywhere we operate.''
 ''Let me say as clearly as I can,'' he added, ''it does work.''
 The company's generally reclusive founding family joined the celebration Friday. For the first time in at least a decade, all the living children of Wal-Mart's founder, Sam Walton -- Rob, Alice and Jim -- stood on a stage together, extolling the virtues of the new and improved retailer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); GENERIC DRUGS (76%); EMISSIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



167 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Where Housing Prices Go, Views of the President Follow

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Read Floyd Norris's blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
HOME prices in the United States are plunging, and the president's economic policies are unpopular.
 There are certainly other factors at work, but over the years there has often been a general relationship between the two sets of data: When home prices are rising at a pace moderately faster than the rate of inflation, consumers tend to think well of the government's economic policies. But when they fall, that can set off anger. 
 In the May consumer sentiment survey by the University of Michigan, 6 percent of respondents said they thought that government economic policies were ''good,'' while 37 percent thought they were ''only fair'' and 55 percent deemed them ''poor.'' The other 2 percent had no opinion.
 That was a sharp decline from the April reading, when 43 percent thought the policies were poor, and it represented the largest percentage in the poor category that had ever been recorded in that survey, which goes back to the Nixon administration. The old record, of 54 percent, was set in August 1992, when President Bush's father was in office.
 The accompanying chart shows the difference between the number saying the policies are good and the number saying they are poor. The current reading of minus 49 matches the low for the first President Bush.
 The second chart shows the 12-month change in home prices, adjusted for inflation. The home price index used is the national median price for existing homes, an index that recently has not gone down as much as some other indexes that may be more reliable, like the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller index. To smooth the data, the chart is based on three-month moving averages of the price.
 Over the 12 months through April, the median price, measured that way and adjusted for inflation using the consumer price index, fell 12.2 percent, the largest decline in the history of the data, which goes back to 1969. Until the current cycle, the largest such decline was 6.7 percent, in the 12 months through December 1990, another time when financial institutions had become reluctant to lend and the economy was weak.
 The charts also show recessions. In the 1970s and 1980s, consumers' approval of economic policies tended to rise rapidly after the ends of recessions, but in the early 1990s the recovery did not begin until 18 months after the recession was over.
 In the current administration, approval of the president's economic policies actually peaked during the 2001 recession, although that fact shows that many consumers may be thinking of things other than the economy when they answer that question. The peak came in October 2001, just after the Sept. 11 attacks, when criticizing the president seemed unpatriotic to many.
 The 2001 recession was also unusual in other ways, as is shown in the charts. It was the first one in which the real price of homes did not fall, and it was the first one in which the percentage of respondents thinking the president's economic policies were poor never rose above the number viewing them as good.
 Since then, the trend in the economic approval rating has been generally down, although the percentage approving of the government's economic policies rose in late 2006, only to turn lower as it became clear housing prices were falling and talk of recession increasing.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Government Economic Policy: Percentage of consumers saying government economic policies are good, less those who say they are bad.
Home Price Changes: Year-over-year percentage change in median price of existing homes, adjusted for inflation, using three-month moving averages.(Sources: Reuters/University of Michigan
Bureau of Labor Statistics
 National Association of Realtors, all via Haver Analytics) Charts detail line graphs for recessions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); INFLATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



168 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Bloc Becomes The Prize For Nov. 4

BYLINE: By JODI KANTOR

 BODY:
Now that a would-be first female president is ending her quest for the White House, the race is more about women than ever before.
 With Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's ending her campaign for the Democratic nomination, the presumptive nominees are moving to claim her followers, especially her signature bloc, the millions of women who cast primary votes for her.
 Senator Barack Obama's campaign is positioning itself as the rightful heir to these Democratic voters. Senator John McCain's strategists are plotting to convert them, particularly older women who are skeptical of Mr. Obama's thin resume. Even the Democratic National Committee chairman is avidly trying to make up for accusations that he allowed sexism in the race to pass unchallenged.
 ''The wounds of sexism need to be the subject of a national discussion,'' the chairman, Howard Dean, said in an interview. ''Many of the most prominent people on TV behaved like middle schoolers'' toward Mrs. Clinton. 
 Many Clinton voters say that she will remain their leader, that she has created a lasting female constituency, a women's electoral movement unlike any other. So with Mrs. Clinton ready to endorse Mr. Obama in a speech on Saturday, the vanquished candidate faces her first postcampaign test. Can she pivot millions of supporters in the direction of Mr. Obama, the candidate she just stopped denigrating?
 ''I don't know any Hillary or feminist supporter who isn't going to support Obama,'' said Gloria Steinem, adding, however, that a stray few may write in Mrs. Clinton's name on the November ballot.
 The question, Ms. Steinem said, is the degree of support these followers will offer Mr. Obama, whether they will merely pull levers for him or apply some of the vast energy and generosity they did for Mrs. Clinton.
 Not everyone agrees. 
 Cynthia Ubaldo, 44, a Clinton supporter in Columbus, Ohio, just switched her registration from Democratic to independent and donated $10 to Mr. McCain. The endorsement on Saturday is a mandatory, empty gesture, Ms. Ubaldo said. 
 ''I'm sure Hillary's cussing Obama out to Bill and Chelsea as we speak,'' she said.
 Many of Mrs. Clinton's female supporters have shared a metaphor to describe letting go of her candidacy. They say they are grieving. They admit shedding tears. And they refer to stages like ''denial,'' ''anger'' and ''acceptance.''
 In keeping with this close bond, many supporters say they are less likely to transfer this heartfelt allegiance to Mr. Obama than to follow their hero's cues. 
 The 350,000 e-mail messages that Mrs. Clinton received after soliciting supporters on Tuesday include ''an overwhelming chorus of 'We want you to continue to be our leader,' '' said Ann Lewis, a Clinton adviser. 
 Beth Dozoretz, a top donor who said she knows and likes Mr. Obama, said, ''Hillary is going to be helpful to him, and I'm going to help her be helpful to him.''
 Many Clinton supporters say they will not be able to make their peace with the Obama nomination until they know Mrs. Clinton's role on the ticket, in the campaign and in the party. Because Mr. Obama is unlikely to settle on a running mate right away, the question will remain unsettled for some time.
 ''It's going to take more than a speech saying that Hillary has made great strides and that will help his children,'' said Deborah Larkin, another longtime Clinton donor, referring to Mr. Obama's comments on Tuesday night.
 A classic stage of grief is bargaining, and just as Mrs. Clinton has surely been thinking about what she wants to extract from her run, her supporters have been making their own wish lists. The most popular item, with many online petition signatures behind it, is a spot on Mr. Obama's ticket.
 If he does not offer the vice-presidential position to Mrs. Clinton, ''I'm going to be really angry,'' said Alida Black, another longtime Clinton supporter. 
 ''Hillary is not interchangeable,'' Ms. Black added, warning Mr. Obama not to select, say, Gov. Kathleen Sebelius of Kansas as a gesture to please women. 
 Some Clinton supporters have other priorities. ''I don't see the vice presidency as a very exciting thing,'' said Nancy White, 69, of Bloomington, Ind., who would prefer for Mrs. Clinton to return to the Senate to aid Mr. Obama on health care and other issues.
 Former Gov. Madeleine M. Kunin of Vermont suggested in an interview that Mr. Obama promise to appoint women to half his cabinet positions. 
 Ms. Steinem advised that Mr. Obama deliver the same sort of ambitious speech about sex that he did on race. An aide said the campaign was considering such an address. 
 Jenny Backus, a Democratic consultant unaffiliated with either campaign, wondered whether Mr. Obama might give Chelsea Clinton a prominent role in his efforts. 
 When Mr. Dean reached out to Cynthia Ruccia, who started an organization of female Clinton swing-state voters threatening to vote for Mr. McCain, Ms. Ruccia asked that the Democratic convention include a symbolic first ballot for Mrs. Clinton's delegates. Mr. Dean discouraged the idea on the grounds of unity.
 He has belatedly recognized the cries of sexism, Mr. Dean said, particularly when a friend showed him a video compilation of broadcasters' comments about Mrs. Clinton. 
 ''We all get over it when our candidates don't win,'' he said. ''What you don't get over is feeling like you've been insulted by some of the leading institutions in America and no one said anything about it.'' 
 For decades, women have been more likely to identify as Democrats than Republicans. This year, 44 percent of women have identified themselves in polls by The New York Times or CBS News as Democrats, 26 percent as Republicans and 24 percent independents. 
 Mr. McCain has recently beckoned to frustrated Clinton supporters in his speeches. A campaign tour reaching out to them, as well as independent female voters, is imminent, aides said.
 For Ms. Ubaldo, the Clinton supporter who switched registration and donated to Mr. McCain, the Republican nominee is not so much a protest choice as an appealing alternative. 
 ''This guy is not a conservative,'' said Ms. Ubaldo, who does not have health insurance but does have a subprime mortgage.
 The Obama campaign will fight back, after waiting a respectful beat or two. In conversations with Mr. Obama and his aides, ''I've tried to make sure that everyone understood that these women have a right to feel frustrated and angry,'' said Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri, an important ally who is one of his leading emissaries to women. ''To try to make that less than real is a huge mistake.'' 
 As he declared himself the nominee on Tuesday, Mr. Obama cut a particularly woman-friendly figure on stage, dedicating his speech to his grandmother and affectionately bumping fists with his wife, Michelle. 
 Indeed, descriptions of those women, along with his mother and daughters, will be regular features of Mr. Obama's speeches, Ms. Sebelius said. Women will ultimately choose Mr. Obama not because of symbolic overtures, she added, but because of his stances on health care, the economy and education, areas where his positions closely resemble Mrs. Clinton's.
 The key, Ms. McCaskill said, is approaching Mrs. Clinton's supporters with utmost humility. And, Ms. Backus added, that is not always the strongest suit of the young people who are some of Mr. Obama's most enthusiastic supporters.
 ''Not nyeh nyeh nyeh nyeh,'' Ms. McCaskill said, making a taunting sound. ''We need them very, very badly, and we shouldn't be able to be afraid to say that we need them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The audience at a rally for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in Beaumont, Tex., on the eve of the primary there in March.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); WOMEN (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (53%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (53%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



169 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Forgo Soft Money, But Conventions Rake It In

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
One of Senator Barack Obama's first acts after claiming the Democratic nomination was declaring he would not take special-interest money for his presidential bid, even going so far as to bar lobbyists from donating to the Democratic National Committee.
 But there is one important area where special-interest money is flowing into the Democratic campaign effort -- the millions of dollars being raised from corporations to finance the party's convention in Denver. 
 Elected Democratic officials have been calling on corporations -- meeting with Wall Street executives and flying to San Diego, Philadelphia and Las Vegas -- to raise the $40 million the party has budgeted for the convention, in August. In return, these Democratic officials are promising corporate donors ''sponsor benefits packages'' that include private sessions with federal officeholders and other influential party leaders. 
 This search for cash comes as national party committees, like the D.N.C., are barred from soliciting or spending soft money, the unrestricted donations to political parties. But there is one major exception to these limits: the unlimited contributions from corporations and unions for the party's convention. Even more, donations for the conventions, unlike other campaign contributions, are fully tax-deductible to corporations as a business expense. 
 To many critics, this is the last soft-money loophole in campaign finance, one that neither Mr. Obama, nor his Republican rival, Senator John McCain, who was a sponsor of the legislation banning soft money, has spoken out against. And the convention fund-raising could test the commitment these two candidates have to erasing the influence of big money in politics.
 In fact, one of the three co-chairmen of Mr. McCain's presidential campaign, Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, has taken the lead in soliciting corporations on behalf of the Republican convention in St. Paul, with promises, according to literature from the Twin Cities committee, of golf outings and private dinners with Republican leaders, including Mr. McCain and other members of Congress. 
 As for Mr. Obama, the Democratic convention fund-raising drive puts him in an awkward spot. Typically, the presidential nominee or people close to the campaign solicit money for the convention. This year, with Denver falling behind in meeting its fund-raising goals, the help of Mr. Obama and his surrogates might be needed more than ever. 
 ''They will need the help, and if Obama fund-raises for the convention, he'll be going to rich individuals and to corporations with lobbyists,'' said Steve Weissman, a policy director at the Campaign Finance Institute, a nonprofit group that studies campaign contributions. ''We'll see whether he walks the walk.'' 
 Bill Burton, a spokesman for the Obama campaign, said he did not know what role Mr. Obama would play in convention fund-raising. ''Frankly, we're just now beginning a general election campaign,'' Mr. Burton said. ''We have full confidence the convention will have all the resources it needs.'' 
 Even if the Obama campaign does not actively raise money for the convention, the Democratic fund-raising effort -- and the overt promises of political access -- represent exactly the kind of relationship with special-interest money that Mr. Obama has denounced since he began his presidential bid. 
 Brochures being sent to potential corporate donors by the Denver host committee say that ''as a sponsor'' of the convention, corporate executives will have access to as many as 232 members of Congress, 51 senators and 28 governors in what is being marketed as a ''once in a lifetime'' opportunity. In addition, the more a company gives -- with donations of as much as $1 million being sought -- the more ''V.I.P. access and other benefits'' are offered, according to the brochures. 
 ''The 2008 Democratic National Convention will bring together a unique group of business leaders, high-level lawmakers, members of the national and international media and prominent academics,'' said a brochure from the host committee. ''This is a rare opportunity to play a leadership role in a substantive discussion on timely issues affecting your industry with company executives, scholars, elected officials and members of the media.'' 
 Donors who give $1 million or more at the ''Presidential Sponsor'' level are given convention credentials to all hospitality suites and are assured of invitations to private events hosted by Senator Ken Salazar of Colorado; the state's governor, Bill Ritter Jr.; members of Colorado's Congressional delegation; and other leading Democratic politicians. 
 One key fund-raiser for the Democratic convention is Steve Farber, a founding partner of one of Washington's leading lobbying firms and a major Democratic donor who has played golf with former President Bill Clinton and raised money for his presidential library. 
 Over the years, the conventions have evolved away from events where the political parties came to debate and pick their presidential nominee. More recently, with the nominees selected months in advance, they have turned into giant festivals promoting their nominee and providing opportunities for members of Congress and high-level corporate executives and lobbyists to meet in social settings -- and for corporations to write large checks to support the party. 
 The Denver host committee is trying to raise $40.6 million for its August convention, but has raised only around $25 million so far. Republicans, for their September convention in Minneapolis-St. Paul, expect to raise $58 million and say that they are on target to meet that goal. Much of this fund-raising is done in the name of civic boosterism. It brings attention to the convention's host city and allows local companies to highlight the local economy, which is why donations for the conventions are tax-deductible. 
 But a recent analysis by the Campaign Finance Institute, subtitled ''Party Surrogates Gather Soft Money While Federal Regulators Turn a Blind Eye,'' found that half the corporate money raised for the two conventions comes from companies that have no connection with the host cities. 
 Even more, while these civic host committees are intended to be bipartisan bodies that promote the cities, Democrats have in fact done the bulk of the fund-raising for the Denver convention, and Republicans have taken the lead for the Minneapolis event, the report found. 
 ''When these Colorado Democrats and Minnesota Republicans 'make the ask,' '' the report said, ''their undeniable civic boosterism frequently is accompanied by offers of special access to federal elected officials, national party leaders and other party influentials.'' 
 The money raised by the host committees comes on top of $16.3 million each party is given by the federal government to pay for the convention. Each city is also given $50 million in federal anti-terrorism funds for security. 
 Over the years, the cost of running a convention has risen sharply. Data from the Campaign Finance Institute show that in 1992, host committees raised $8 million for the two parties' conventions -- an amount that represented 14 percent of the total costs of both conventions. In 2004, the two host committees in Boston and New York raised $142 million, 77 percent of the conventions' total costs. 
 This means that as convention costs have escalated, the burden for financing them has shifted from the parties themselves to corporate donors. The corporate money raised by the host committee pays for erecting the podium, building the skyboxes and media centers, renting the arena and putting up all the internal decorations, including the balloon drop. 
 Critics have asked why the parties themselves cannot pay for these expenses rather than turn to corporations, especially as each city will be getting over $65 million in federal funds. 
 ''These parties have outsourced the costs of the conventions,'' said Frances Hill, a professor of tax and election law at the University of Miami. ''For corporations, it is a way to get cozy to politicians. My mind goes blank when you think what could cost $40 million for the inside of the hall.'' 
 In Minnesota, the fund-raising effort is being led by Senator Norm Coleman and Governor Pawlenty. Sponsorships for the Republican convention carry a higher price tag than those for the Democratic convention. 
 Whereas $1 million will buy the top sponsorship at the Democratic convention, the top sponsorship at the Republican convention, which provides the most access to politicians, has a $5 million price tag. Minnesota companies are getting squeezed the hardest -- Fortune 500 companies based in the state are being asked to give at least $1 million, while smaller companies are being approached for donations in the $250,000-to-$500,000 range. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Democrats have struggled to raise funds for the party's convention at the Pepsi Center in Denver.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID SCULL/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SPONSORSHIP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); TIM PAWLENTY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (88%) COLORADO, USA (88%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008



170 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: This Global Show Must Go On

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
THE last 20 years have brought the world more trade, more globalization and more economic growth than in any previous such period in history. Few commentators had believed that such a rise in trade and living standards was possible so quickly. 
 More than 400 million Chinese climbed out of poverty between 1990 and 2004, according to the World Bank. India has become a rapidly growing economy, the middle class in Brazil and Mexico is flourishing, and recent successes of Ghana and Tanzania show that parts of Africa may be turning the corner as well. 
 Despite these enormous advances, however, there is a backlash against globalization and a widespread belief that it requires moderation. Ordinary people often question the benefits of international trade, and now many intellectuals are turning more skeptical, too. Yet the facts on the ground show that the current climate of economic doom and gloom simply isn't warranted. The classic economic recipes of trade, investment and good incentives have never been more successful in generating huge gains in human welfare.
 The globalization process has had its bumps, of course, as reflected recently by rising commodity prices, but that is largely a consequence of how much and how rapidly prosperity has grown. Countries like China have become richer so fast that global production of energy and food have been unable to match the pace. But rapid economic growth is the right direction, even if some of the remaining poor are suffering from high food prices.
 For all the talk of a needed ''timeout'' from globalization, world trade is actually accelerating, and that is for the better. Big changes often come bunched together, so that when good things are happening it is important to maintain the trend. It's true that the tariff-reducing talks at the World Trade Organization have stalled and that the Democratic Party, at least in its rhetoric, has moved away from the free-trade legacy of President Bill Clinton. 
 But the volume of trade is nonetheless likely to keep rising, if only because the world economy is expanding. Furthermore, a vast majority of Americans have never been better poised to benefit from global exchange and from the prosperity of the rest of the world. 
 Trade advocates focus on the benefits of goods arriving from abroad, like luxury shoes from Italy or computer chips from Taiwan. But new ideas are the real prize. By 2010, China will have more Ph.D. scientists and engineers than the United States. These professionals are not fundamentally a threat. To the contrary, they are creators, whose ideas are likely to improve the lives of ordinary Americans, not just the business elites. The more access the Chinese have to American and other markets, the more they can afford higher education and the greater their incentive to innovate. 
 Conservative and liberal economists agree that new ideas are the fundamental source of higher living standards. We urgently need new biotechnologies, a cure for AIDS and a cleaner energy infrastructure, to name just a few. Trade is part of the path toward achieving those ends. A wealthier China and India also mean higher potential rewards for Americans and others who invest in innovation. A product or idea that might have been marketed just to the United States and to Europe 20 years ago could be sold to billions more in the future. 
 Those benefits will take time to arrive, but trade with China has already eased hardships for poorer Americans. A new research paper by Christian Broda and John Romalis, both professors at the Graduate School of Business at the University of Chicago, has shown that cheap imports from China have benefited the American poor disproportionately. In fact, for the poor, discounting in stores such as Wal-Mart has offset much of the rise in measured income inequality from 1994 to 2005. 
 Despite all these gains, the prevailing intellectual tendency these days is to apologize for free trade. A common claim is that trade liberalization should proceed only if it is accompanied by new policies to retrain displaced workers or otherwise ameliorate the consequences of economic volatility. 
 Yes, the benefits of a good safety net are well established, but globalization is not the primary source of trouble for most American workers. Health care problems, bad schools for our children or, in recent times, bad banking practices have all produced greater disruptions -- and these have been fundamentally domestic failings. 
 What's really happening is that many people, whether in the United States or abroad, are unduly suspicious about economic relations with foreigners. These complaints stem from basic human nature -- namely, our tendency to divide people into ''in groups'' and ''out groups'' and to elevate one and to demonize the other. Americans fear that foreigners will rise at their expense or ''control'' some aspects of the economy. 
 ONE approach is to appease these sentiments by backing away from trade just a bit, or by managing it, so as to limit the backlash. Giving up momentum, however, isn't necessarily the right way forward. If we are too apologetic about globalization, we can feed core irrationalities, instead of taming them. The risk is that we will frame trade as a fundamental source of suffering and losses, which would make voters more nervous, not less. 
 It is wrong to play down the costs of globalization, but the reality is that we've been playing down its benefits for a long time. Politicians already pander to Americans' suspicion of foreigners. There is no need for the rest of us to jump on this bandwagon. Instead, we need more awareness of the cosmopolitan benefits of trade and the often hidden -- but no less real -- gains for ordinary Americans. 
 If we look at trends of the last 20 years, we have every reason to believe that the modern era of free trade is just getting started. 
 http://www.voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/1066

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); FOOD PRICES (71%); LIBERALISM (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (61%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); GHANA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



171 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2009 HONDA PILOT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Only Pretending It's a Brute

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER JENSEN

DATELINE: Franconia, N.H. 

 BODY:
 IF Honda's designers feel they have been double-crossed by American consumers, it would be understandable. 
 But I think it is really just a matter of bad timing, not treachery. Several years ago, when Honda was planning the redesign of its Pilot utility wagon for 2009, drivers told researchers they wanted the next generation to look more like an S.U.V. 
 So Honda did it. But now as the trucky-looking Pilot is reaching showrooms, American consumers are panicking over gas prices -- and shunning trucks as if they were bank-account devouring monsters, which isn't all that far off.
 The truck share of the overall light-vehicle market in the United States fell to 47 percent in the first five months of this year, from a peak of nearly 55 percent in 2004, according to J. D. Power & Associates. And sales of large S.U.V.'s, which the new Pilot now resembles more closely (intentionally, but unfortunately) are shriveling as pump-dazed car buyers shift to smaller vehicles. 
 Honda's considerable task, then, is to persuade shoppers that beneath the Pilot's brutish sheet metal is a crossover that uses car-type construction, powered by a V-6 engine that can save fuel by backing down from six cylinders to four or even three when conditions permit. 
 This is the first redesign of the Pilot since the original was introduced in 2002 and quickly became a hit. The second generation was developed in the United States and is built in Lincoln, Ala., where its 3.5-liter engine is also made.
 The Pilot is available with front-wheel drive or all-wheel drive and comes in four trim levels. Prices of two-wheel-drive models start at $28,265 for the LX, $31,065 for the EX, $34,265 for the EX-L and $37,465 for the fancy Touring version. All-wheel drive is about $1,600 more. 
 I tested a Touring with all-wheel drive priced at $40,625.
 The market has changed considerably since the first Pilot. There is much more competition from a formidable gathering of other crossover (that is, car-based) utilities like the Saturn Outlook, Buick Enclave and GMC Acadia, all from General Motors; the Toyota Highlander; and the Mazda CX-9. 
 While the exterior of the Pilot has been toughened up for '09, the interior follows a theme of thoughtfulness and practicality. That includes a huge, multisection storage compartment between the front seats that leaves no excuses for disorganization.
 The second- and third-row seats are split 60-40, and the second row also moves fore and aft almost three inches. All this combines to provide a pleasing amount of flexibility for the payload, whether human or otherwise.
 The 2009 model's overall length (and wheelbase) increased 2.9 inches. Honda says that translates into about an inch more legroom in the second row and almost two inches more in the third row. 
 As the result of this growth, Honda declares the new Pilot to be a ''true eight-passenger vehicle'' designed to provide ''an equal and enjoyable experience'' for each passenger. This attempt at a Family Motoring Bill of Rights is an admirable goal, perhaps, but one that the Pilot does not really deliver on.
 Eight people will not be happy in the Pilot unless three of them are adolescents willing to endure prolonged flank-to-flank contact. Carrying eight adults and achieving happiness will require sedatives and a predeparture application of silicone lubricant. 
 During the week I tested the Pilot I also had a Toyota Highlander for comparison. In the same spirit of boastful optimism, Toyota says the Highlander is a seven-passenger vehicle. The Highlander feels far narrower and tighter inside than the Pilot, and there is also less legroom in the Highlander's third row. 
 Under way, the Pilot is slightly troubled by wind and road noise, a longtime weak point for Honda. After the superquiet Buick Enclave came out last year, Honda engineers added soundproofing materials to the Pilot, but it wasn't enough to match the Enclave's interior tranquillity.
 All Pilots come with a full complement of safety equipment, from side-impact air curtains to electronic stability control. The front seats have active head restraints designed to move forward in a rear impact and minimize the chance of neck injuries.
 Cargo capacity behind the third row is rated at 20.8 cubic feet, twice as much as the Highlander holds. The Pilot has a plastic-lined compartment below the floor for temporary storage of messier cargo. For carrying even more, the Pilot's third row easily folds down. Doing so increases the cargo capacity to almost 48 cubic feet, compared with 42 in the Highlander.
 All those features are fine and even dandy, but the driving experience is where the Pilot really excels.
 The steering of the old model felt loose and somewhat disconnected; on the '09, it does a far superior job of making the driver feel linked to the vehicle. The steering is also much better than that of the Highlander.
 While the Pilot tries to look like an S.U.V., its ride is not trucklike. Even on roads through the White Mountains of New Hampshire, where the ride in some family sedans can be abusive, the Pilot sheltered me from all but the worst impacts. Despite this gentleness, the handling inspires confidence, and though no vehicle so tall and heavy can be described as agile, on one challenging mountain road the Pilot had no trouble, even when a turn suddenly proved tighter than it had appeared and the road dipped. 
 The Pilot's parking-lot handling is equally remarkable. It is able to turn far more sharply than one would expect for such a large vehicle. All in all, the Pilot offers a splendid balance of ride comfort and handling -- a sign that the engineers really know their craft and were given the budget to carry through their designs. 
 The Pilot feels solid, too. There were no quivers even on a rough surface, a result of the increased use of high-strength steel in the redesigned chassis.
 The cylinder-shutoff system of the V-6 has been updated for 2009. Now the engine can switch from six to four or three cylinders, depending on how much power is needed. Previously, it could only go from six to three cylinders, and the feature was available only on two-wheel-drive Pilots.
 Honda engineers said that allowing the engine to go to four cylinders significantly increased the chances that the V-6 could run on fewer than six; quite often, three just weren't enough even when six were more than needed.
 Fuel economy is improved compared with the old Pilot, despite the new model's being larger and heavier. The two-wheel drive version is rated at 17 miles a gallon in town and 23 highway. The all-wheel drive version is rated at 16/22.
 One thing I did notice in back-to-back driving of the Pilot and the Highlander was the smoother operation of Toyota's 3.5 liter V-6. I suggest two possible explanations. One is that Toyota usually does an exceptional job quelling noise and vibration. The other may be that the Toyota engine is always a V-6, which makes it easier to manage noise and vibration than on an engine that switches from six to four or three cylinders.
 Despite Honda's cylinder-shifting, the Highlanders carry E.P.A. ratings that are one m.p.g. better than the Pilot in both city and highway driving. In return, of course, you get more space in the Honda for both people and cargo.
 In normal cruising, the all-wheel-drive model operates in front-wheel drive. But under acceleration, some power is shifted to the rear tires even if the front tires are not slipping. 
 Honda says the Pilot was designed with ''intelligent family adventure'' in mind, which would preclude serious off-road driving. Like many crossovers, the Pilot lacks low-range gearing.
 The new Pilot isn't perfect, but it is impressive in its flexibility, road manners and safety equipment. Its biggest problem is that although it is a car-type crossover, it masquerades as an S.U.V. brute, a look that may scare off Americans looking for a vehicle that won't savage the bank account.
 INSIDE TRACK Looks can deceive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FACEBOOK: A look that says ''tough,'' led by a grille with the same message.
PRACTICAL: Pilot's interior includes thoughtful touches.
INSIDE TRACK: Looks can deceive.(pg. AU10) CHART: A New Contender Among Utility Wagons. Chart details 2009 Honda Pilot. (pg. AU10)
 Counting Quality Problems: Here are the rankings by nameplate for the 2008 Initial Quality Study by J. D. Power & Associates. Numbers after bars indicate the amount of problems per 100 vehicles that were reported by owners in the survey. Numbers with arrows show the change in ranking, if any, from last year. Chart shows stats for latest cars. (pg. AU10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (94%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (94%); HMC (NYSE) (94%); 7267 (TSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



172 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2575 words

 BODY:
COMEDY
 BLOOMFIELD Pianos Bar and Grill Lunatic Fringe, improv comedy troupe. June 14 at 8 p.m. $10. Pianos Bar and Grill, 36 Broad Street. (973) 743-7208; www.pianosbarandgrill.com. 
 FOR CHILDREN
 CAPE MAY Emlen Physick Estate Cape May Family Treasure Hunt, self-guided tours. Continuing. $5. Emlen Physick Estate, 1048 Washington Street. (800) 275-4278; www.capemaymac.org.
 ENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center ''Kidz Bop Live!'' A concert for kids featuring singing, dancing, special effects and a rock band. June 18 at 4 p.m. $15 to $27. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; www.bergenpac.org. 
 MONTCLAIRMontclair Art Museum ''Free Family Day: Summer Landscapes,'' family art projects, camera and stereograph demos and Susan Robb's mammoth outdoor landscape installation. June 22, 1 to 5 p.m. Free. Montclair Art Museum, 3 South Mountain Avenue. (973) 746-5555; www.montclairartmuseum.org. 
 NEWARK The Newark Museum ''Bug-Mania 3,'' a day of family fun and science education. June 14, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. The Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. (973) 596-6550; www.newarkmu-
 seum.org. 
 RED BANK Count Basie Theater ''Disney's High School Musical,'' a benefit performance sponsored by Phoenix Productions and CentraState Hospital. June 21 at 2 p.m. $40. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; www.countbasietheatre.org. 
 MUSIC AND DANCE
 BLOOMFIELD Bloomfield Middle School ''The Sounds of Summer,'' featuring music by the Bloomfield Youth Band. June 21 at 7:30 p.m. $8. Children under 12, free. Bloomfield Middle School, 60 Huck Road. (973) 710-7175. 
 EDISON Temple Emanu-El, the Reform Temple in Edison ''Singing With the Poets: The Muse and Music of Israel,'' with the Makhelat HaMercaz Jewish Choir. Thursday at 7 p.m. $7 to $20. Temple Emanu-El, the Reform Temple in Edison, 100 James Street. (732) 549-4442. 
 ENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center ''1964 the Tribute,'' featuring music from all the eras of the Beatles. Thursday at 8 p.m. $20 to $55. Dan Zanes and Friends, including American traditional songs, dance classics, and original songs for kids and families. June 21 at 1 and 4 p.m. $12 to $38. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; www.bergenpac.org. 
 FAIR LAWNThomas Jefferson Middle School Flag Day concert with music by the Fair Lawn Diamond Jubilee Band. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Thomas Jefferson Middle School, Morlot Avenue. (201) 567-1514.
 MADISON Drew University Sanofi-Aventis Jazzfest 2008, presented by the New Jersey Jazz Society. Through June 8. Free to $45. Drew University, 36 Madison Avenue. (800) 303-6557; www.drew.edu. 
 MORRIS TOWNSHIP Bickford Theater Wyeth Jazz Showcase: Dan Levinson, clarinetist. Monday at 8 p.m. $13 and $15. Bickford Theater, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3706; www.morrismuseum.org. 
 OCEAN GROVE The Great Auditorium ''In the Still of the Night, Doo-Wop by the Boardwalk!'' Music by the Duprees, Fred Parris and the Five Satins, the Chantels and Cleveland Stills and the Dubs. June 21 at 7:30 p.m. $25 and $30. The Great Auditorium, Pilgrim and Ocean Pathways. (732) 988-0645; www.ocean
 grove.org. 
 PRINCETON Princeton Public Library ''Music of La Belle Epoque: From Salon to Stage.'' Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Princeton Public Library, 65 Witherspoon Street. (609) 924-9529; www.princetonlibrary.org. 
 RAMSEY Ramsey High School Ramsey High School Jazz Ensemble outdoor concert. Friday at 7 p.m. Free. Ramsey High School, 266 East Main Street. (201) 444-3223.
 TRENTON Trinity Cathedral ''Trinity Fest 2008,'' with gospel music by the Absalom Jones Inspirational Choir, the Children's Choir of Trinity and a special guest, Polly Moore, and the choir of Christ Episcopal Church. June 8 at 4 p.m. $10. Trinity Cathedral, 801 West State Street. 
 WAYNE Wayne Public Library ''Chasing Rainbows: Songs of Judy Garland,'' performance by Karen Luschar. Wednesday at 12:30 p.m. Free. Wayne Public Library, 461 Valley Road. (973) 694-4272. 
 FILM
 MIDDLETOWN Middletown Township Public Library South Asian Film Festival: ''Viva Liberty,'' narrative short by Dishad Husain. ''Pria,'' narrative short by Theodore Bezaire. ''Red Roses,'' documentary short by Madhuri Mohindar and Vaishali Sinha. Monday, 6 to 8:45 p.m. Free. Middletown Township Public Library, 55 New Monmouth Road. (732) 671-3700. 
 THEATER
 BEACH HAVEN Surflight Theater ''Oklahoma!'' with music by Rodgers and Hammerstein. June 8. $19 and $29. Surflight Theater, Engleside and Beach Avenues. (609) 492-9477; www.surflight.org.
 CAPE MAY Cape May Stage ''Fully Committed,'' comedy by Becky Mode. Through June 28. $12.50 to $35. Cape May Stage, Bank and Lafayette Streets. (609) 884-1341; www.capemaystage.com. 
 MADISON F.M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater ''Amadeus,'' by Peter Shaffer. Through June 30. $38 to $69. F. M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University, 36 Madison Avenue. (973) 408-5600; www.njshakespeare.org. 
 MILLBURNPaper Mill Playhouse ''Little Shop of Horrors,'' musical by Howard Ashman and Alan Menken. Through July 6. $25 to $95. Paper Mill Playhouse, 3 Brookside Drive. (973) 376-4343; www.papermill.org. 
 MONTCLAIR Montclair Art Museum ''The Man in Room 306,'' a dramatic staged reading of the screenplay by Jason Lemire. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Free. Montclair Art Museum, 3 South Mountain Avenue. (973) 746-5555; www.montclairartmuseum.org. 
 NUTLEY Nutley Little Theater ''Tom Foolery,'' musical featuring songs by Tom Lehrer. Friday through June 28. $15. Nutley Little Theater, 47 Erie Place (off Brookfield Avenue). (973) 667-0374; www.nutleylittletheatre.com. 
 PERRYVILLE Hunterdon Hills Playhouse ''Last of the Red Hot Lovers,'' comedy by Neil Simon. Through June 24. $57.50 to $69.50, including entrees and dessert buffet. Hunterdon Hills Playhouse, 88 Route 173 West. (800) 447-7313; www
 .hhplayhouse.com.
 PRINCETONMcCarter Theater Center ''A Seagull in the Hamptons,'' contemporary adaptation by Emily Mann of ''The Seagull'' by Chekhov. Through June 8. $43 and $49. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place. (609) 258-2787; www.mccarter.org. 
 RANDOLPH Brundage Park Playhouse ''Romeo and Juliet,'' presented by the Shakespeare Initiative. Through June 14. $10. Brundage Park Playhouse, Carrell Road. (973) 989-7092. 
 SUSSEX Crescent Theater ''The Star-Spangled Girl,'' comedy by Neil Simon. Wednesday through July 6. $20 to $30. Crescent Theater, 74 Main Street. (973) 875-2950. 
 WEST LONG BRANCH Lauren K. Woods Theater at Monmouth University ''Wait Until Dark,'' by Frederick Knott. Through June 22. $15 to $25. Lauren K. Woods Theater at Monmouth University, Cedar and Norwood Avenues. (732) 263-6889. 
 WEST WINDSOR Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College ''The Full Monty,'' musical about unemployed steelworkers who decide to become exotic dancers. Through June 8. $10 to $16. Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College, 1200 Old Trenton Road. (609) 570-3333; www.kelsey
 atmccc.org. 
 MUSEUMS AND GALLERIES
 ALLENTOWN Historic Walnford ''Key Ingredients: America by Food,'' a traveling Smithsonian exhibition that explores the historical, regional and social traditions in everyday meals. Through July 13. Historic Walnford, 78 Walnford Road. (609) 259-6275. 
 CAPE MAY Soma NewArt Gallery ''Intimate Feasts,'' paintings by Sandra Bloodworth. Through June 15. Mondays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Soma NewArt Gallery, 31 Perry Street. (609) 898-7488; www.somagallery.net. 
 CLINTON Red Mill Museum Village ''Just Sew! Clinton Quilts: 1860 to Today,'' an exhibition featuring antique quilts. Through Oct. 9. Adults, $8; seniors, $6; children 6 to 12, $5; members and children under 6, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Red Mill Museum Village, 56 Main Street. (908) 735-4101. CLINTON Hunterdon Museum of Art ''Emil Lukas: Moderate Climate and the Bitter Bison,'' paintings and installations using nontraditional materials. Through June 15. $5. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hunterdon Museum of Art, 7 Lower Center Street. (908) 735-8415; www.hunterdonartmuseum.org. 
 CRANFORD Tomasulo Gallery, Union County College ''Howard Nathenson, Recent Color Still Lifes,'' photographs. Through June 26. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 1 to 4 p.m.; Tuesdays through Thursdays, 6 to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Tomasulo Gallery, Union County College, 1033 Springfield Avenue. (908) 709-7155. 
 ENGLEWOOD Mark Gallery ''Journey of the Spirit,'' paintings by Peter Lajtai Langer. Through June 26. Free. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Mark Gallery, 11 Grand Avenue. (201) 568-6275; www.mark-gallery.com. 
 GLEN GARDNER Gallery 31 North ''The Sea I See,'' installations and sculpture by Ellen Hanauer. Through June 29. Thursdays through Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Gallery 31 North, Route 31 and Hunt Place. (908) 537-7044. 
 HAMILTON Grounds for Sculpture Spring Exhibition featuring Toshiko Takaezu and Peter Voulkos, contemporary ceramic artists. Through Sept. 28. Adults, $10; students and seniors, $8; children 6 to 12, $6; members and children under 6, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Grounds for Sculpture, 18 Fairgrounds Road. (609) 586-0616; www.groundsforsculpture.org. 
 HOPEWELL Gallery 14 ''Ground Zero + 7,'' photographs by Marty Schwartz and Joanna Tully. Through June 22. Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Gallery 14, 14 Mercer Street. (609) 333-8511. 
 LAMBERTVILLE The Coryell Gallery at the Porkyard ''View of Land and Sky,'' featuring pastels and watercolors by Pamela Malabre Miller and Barbara Gould Watts. Through June 29. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Coryell Gallery at the Porkyard, 8 Coryell Street. (609) 397-0804. 
 LINCROFT Monmouth Museum ''Waldman Family Exhibition,'' featuring works by three Waldman family artists. Through June 22. ''Gustav Rosenlof -- Mobiles,'' a part of the New Jersey Emerging Artists Series. Through June 29. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. $7 and $8; free for museum members, students and staff members of Brookdale Community College, and children under 2. Monmouth Museum, Brookdale Community College, Newman Springs Road. (732) 747-2266; www.monmouth
 museum.org.
 MILLVILLE Wheaton Arts and Cultural Center ''Living Traditions Portrayed: Indian Folk Art and Crafts,'' featuring a collection of ritual, decorative and utilitarian objects from Indian and Indian-American artists and craftspeople. Through Dec. 31. ''Tracing the Cultural Roots,'' featuring glass works by Sisir Sahana and paintings by Narendra Amin. Through Dec. 31. ''Treasures From the Collection: Museum of American Glass,'' an exhibition of 125 glass pieces that have been collected over 40 years. Through Jan. 5. $7 to $10; children 5 and under, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Wheaton Arts and Cultural Center, 1501 Glasstown Road (Route 55). (800) 998-4552; www.wheaton
 arts.org. 
 MONTCLAIR Montclair Art Museum ''Morgan Russell and His Modern Mentors,'' an exhibition of almost two dozen works on paper, canvas and wood panel, all demonstrating the artist's exploration of French impressionism, fauvism, cubism, and other movements from the early 20th century. June 15 through Sept. 14. $6 to $8; free for members and children 12 and under; free for everyone on Fridays from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Montclair Art Museum, 3 South Mountain Avenue. (973) 746-5555; www.montclairartmuseum.org. 
 MORRISTOWN Art Upstairs Gallery at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts for the Performing Arts ''Five Mixed Palettes,'' an exhibition featuring oils, pastels and photography from five New Jersey artists. Monday through July 28. Hours: Wednesdays from 4:30 to 7:30 p.m. and by appointment. Art Upstairs Gallery at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum ''New Narratives: Contemporary Art From India,'' group exhibition of paintings, sculptures, new media art, installations and video. Through July 31. ''Painting for the Grave: The Early Work of Boris Sveshnikov,'' an exhibition featuring oil paintings and drawings produced from 1940 to 1961. Through Oct. 12. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum, 71 Hamilton Street. (732) 932-7237; www.zimmerlimuseum.rutgers.edu. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation ''Magyar Grafika: Hungarian Posters, Advertising and Ephemera,'' featuring 75 posters from the 1900s. Through Sept. 14. $5. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation, 300 Somerset Street. (732) 846-5777. NEW BRUNSWICKRutgers University, Douglass Library ''Tiger by the Tail! Women Artists of India Transforming Culture -- Part 1,'' contemporary Indian art. Through July 31. Free. Rutgers University, Douglass Library, 8 Chapel Drive. (732) 932-9407; www.libraries.rutgers.edu/rul/exhibits/dana--womens.shtml. 
 NEWARK Newark Museum ''Glass Beads of Ghana,'' glass beads made with various materials and techniques. Through June 15. ''Women's Tales: Four Leading Israeli Jewelers,'' contemporary jewelry. Through June 25. ''Small but Sublime: Intimate Views by Durand, Bierstadt and Inness.'' Through Feb. 22. $3 to $9; members, free. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. (973) 596-6550; www.newarkmuseum.org. 
 NEWARK Rupert Ravens Contemporary ''Displaced/Interventions'' and ''Stop Stealing My Face,'' paintings, prints and videos by Grace Graupe Pillard. Through June 22. Thursdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Rupert Ravens Contemporary, 85 Market Street. (973) 353-0110. 
 OCEAN CITY Ocean City Arts Center ''Rooftops,'' group show. Through June 27. Free. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Ocean City Arts Center, 1735 Simpson Avenue. (609) 399-7628. 
 PRINCETON Morven Museum and Garden ''The Nation's Capital,'' an exhibition in celebration of the 225th anniversary of Princeton's serving as America's capital for five months in 1783. Through Jan. 11. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Morven Museum and Garden, 55 Stockton Street. (609) 924-8144. 
 RIDGEWOOD Kerygma Gallery Summer Exhibition, group show of paintings and sculpture by gallery artists. Through Aug. 9. Free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Kerygma Gallery, 38 Oak Street. (201) 444-5510. 
 SPRINGFIELD Donald B. Palmer Museum (Springfield Free Public Library) ''Tales From the Wood,'' a collection of hand-carved and assembled animal heads by George Thaddeus Saj. Monday through July 17. Hours: Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.; Tuesdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Donald B. Palmer Museum (Springfield Free Public Library), 66 Mountain Avenue. (973) 376-4930. 
 UNION Union Public Library ''Atmospheres and Compositions of Nature,'' an exhibition of paintings by Seppo Siimes. Through Aug. 18. Union Public Library, 1980 Morris Avenue. (908) 851-5450. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEWARK: John Corsa and Jan Javier in ''Movin' Out,'' an all-dance musical by Twyla Tharp and Billy Joel Tuesday through June 15. Tickets are $23 to $69. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722
www. njpac.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAN MARCUS) (pg. NJ14)
LONG BRANCH: Stephanie Dorian, Bill Timoney and Liz Zazzi are in ''Women Who Steal,'' a comedy about love, marriage and strange friendships by Carter W. Lewis at the Dwek Studio Theater through June 15. Tickets are $30 to $50. 179 Broadway. (732) 229-3166
www.njrep.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE BARABAS) (pg. NJ14)
MORRIS TOWNSHIP: Detail of ''The Parade in Our Town''(1959), a painting from ''New Jersey Then and Now,'' featuring works from the collections of ACA Galleries and from the Morris Museum, dating from 1780. On view through Sept. 14. Admission is $6 to $8
free on Thursdays from 5 to 8 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Thursdays to 8 p.m.
Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3700
 www.morrismuseum.org. (pg. NJ16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CALENDARS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); THEATER (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); DANCE (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); POP & ROCK (75%); FESTIVALS (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (67%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (66%)

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (60%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (60%); SANF (BIT) (60%); SAN (PAR) (60%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (60%); DIS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (56%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



173 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER VACATION BARGAINS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Summer's Best Deals Are Close to Home

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
LAST summer, Lisa Clark, a management consultant from Los Angeles, spent about three weeks in Europe, touring Scotland by car, spending a weekend in Paris and biking in Tuscany. Though it wasn't cheap (France and Italy cost roughly $4,300 alone) Ms. Clark made it work by using frequent flier miles to get there and by buying packaged tours to keep her expenses contained. 
 But after using up her miles, watching airfares climb, and taking stock of her savings, Ms. Clark, like so many other Americans, is scaling back her vacation ambitions this summer. 
 ''I did the blow-out trips last year,'' said Ms. Clark, ''I said, 'This year I'm not going to do it.''' 
 Instead, this summer, she plans to do some wine tasting in her home state of California and save some money by visiting and staying with friends in Boulder, Colo., and on the East Coast. That way, she said, ''I don't have to pay for a hotel. I might pay for taking them out to a nice dinner.'' 
 This summer, the best travel deals may be right at home. The weak dollar is making many Americans cross Europe off their list this year. Rising airfares are making it hard to justify a trip to many far-flung places. And even Canada isn't the bargain it used to be. 
 But stateside, things are different. Recognizing rising fuel costs, tightening travelers' wallets and the overall economy, many cities are flooding the Internet with discounts and promotions. Destination DC, a marketing organization for the nation's capital, is offering three-night weekend stays for 30 percent off at www.washington.org. Philadelphia is promoting two-night packages at www.gophila.com/summerfun through Sept. 7 that come with a $50 American Express gift card. Even ritzy Aspen, Colo., is offering visitors who book two or more nights at a participating hotel a $50 gas voucher and two free bike rentals. See www.aspenchamber.org for information. 
 Travelocity.com has been touting ''All-American Offers'' including United States national park trips from $729 and $100 off five-night Colorado vacations through promotional e-mail. 
 And Expedia is advertising up to 30 percent off United States destinations at www.expedia.com/summersale. 
 Travel companies hope such deals will spur vacationers into action. ''They're trying to get ahead of the game,'' said Gabe Saglie, senior editor at Travelzoo.com. If the industry ''can attract travelers before they get too much into money-saving mode, it will benefit them,'' he said.
 The big challenge for summer travelers this year is finding cheap airfares. Domestic fares are up 20 percent on average for departures between June 3 and Aug. 20, according to Farecast.com, which offers airfare predictions. But rather than hold out for a fare sale, travelers may do better by heading to destinations with deep discounts, which can help offset rising airfare prices. 
 For example, a slowdown in visitors combined with a rise in new hotel rooms is turning Las Vegas into a bargain-hunters' dream. Sure it's the desert in the summer, but travelers can find rooms as low as $69 a night at Bally's or $75 a night at Harrah's. Looking for luxury? The Bellagio is offering Web specials for $179 a night. The Mirage has rates as low as $81 a night. 
 Want a vacation deal without the heat? Think counterintuitively. Winter resorts in places like Vermont and Colorado offer discounts galore during the slower summer months. And the high altitude and low humidity of mountain towns is perfect for outdoor enthusiasts or travelers who simply want to sit on a porch in the evening and sip some good wine. Searching winter-oriented Web sites like Ski.com for summer promotions can turn up some real gems. For summer, the site is offering two nights in a one-bedroom residence, daily cooked-to-order breakfast, a $200 dinner credit and two spa treatments for $478 a person this summer at the Sky Lodge in Park City, Utah. For the Aspen Music Festival, it's offering four nights in a two-bedroom condo at Aspen Square and a three-event festival pass from $613 a person, based on four people sharing. During the winter holiday season four nights in the same two-bedroom would cost $1,085 a person. 
 BUT it's not just off-season destinations that are slashing rates. Take Myrtle Beach. This family hot spot used to fill up months in advance for summer. But in the last five years, the Myrtle Beach area, including Little River and Pawleys Island, has added nearly 12,000 rooms, mostly oceanfront condominiums. The growth has kept prices down as hotels and rental units compete for guests. 
 This summer, a family of four can stay for three nights at the Compass Cove Resort for $597, including daily buffet breakfast, by booking the Family Value package. The Beach Cove Resort, where rates start at $149 a night in June, is offering 20 percent off stays of seven nights or longer. And Sea Watch Resort, where oceanfront studios start at $125 a night, is offering 15 percent off from July 6 to 31. 
 Many theme-park destinations have been offering deals too. Compared with last summer, hotel rates have dropped 7 percent in Orlando and 12 percent in Anaheim, Calif., home of Disneyland, according to Expedia.com. Under its Red Hot Deals section, Hotels.com has been featuring rates from $69 a night at Knott's Berry Farm Resort Hotel and $132 a night at the Sheraton Anaheim Hotel, both near Disneyland. Near Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, Fla., Hotels.com is advertising rooms at the Hotel Royal Plaza from $99. 
 Concerned about the impact of rising gas prices on day trippers and other vacationers, many drive-to destinations are offering gas rebates and other deals to keep travelers coming. In upstate New York, for example, the Inn at Lake Joseph in Forestburgh (www.lakejoseph.com) is offering to reimburse visitors staying at least two nights, Sunday through Thursday, in June for all transportation and fuel purchases within Sullivan County including rental cars and gas, up to half the room charges for the entire stay. 
 Choosing a summer vacation spot you can drive to rather than fly may not only save you money -- it might just help you avoid chronic summertime airline delays and cancellations. That way you can actually enjoy your vacation.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA KUO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FARES (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); TRAVEL AGENTS (76%); TOUR PACKAGES (76%); TOUR OPERATORS (76%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (75%); US DOLLAR (73%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%); TRAVELOCITY.COM INC (52%); TRAVELZOO INC (51%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (53%); TZOO (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (51%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (51%); SIC7313 RADIO, TELEVISION, & PUBLISHERS' ADVERTISING REPRESENTATIVES (51%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%) COLORADO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (92%); ITALY (92%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



174 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Russian Takes Critical Tone On Economy

BYLINE: By SOPHIA KISHKOVSKY

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Russia 

 BODY:
In his first major economic speech since becoming president, Dmitri A. Medvedev said Saturday that the world might be in the throes of the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression and that a newly revived Russia could offer solutions to a systemic crisis that has underscored America's shortcomings. 
 Mr. Medvedev, who was inaugurated on May 7, spoke at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum, an annual event since the 1990s that was thrust into the spotlight last year as Russia's answer to rival forums held in Europe.
 It was also a showcase for the former imperial capital of St. Petersburg, hometown of Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin and Mr. Medvedev. The forum opened Friday evening with a free concert for city residents. 
 In a keynote address that underscored his knowledge of corporate terminology, Mr. Medvedev spoke of ''economic egoism'' and ''economic nationalism,'' and he made specific reference to the United States overreaching its economic capabilities.
 ''It turned out to be an illusion that one country, even the most powerful, could take upon itself the role of global government,'' he said.
 ''Moreover, namely, the dissonance between the formal role of the United States of America in the world economy and its actual capabilities was one of the central causes of the current crisis. However big the American market, and however reliable the American financial system, it's not capable of replacing global goods and financial markets.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



175 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1752 words

HEADLINE: For Studies in English, Koreans Learn to Say Goodbye to Dad

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: AUCKLAND, New Zealand 

 BODY:
On a sunny afternoon recently, half a dozen South Korean mothers came to pick up their children at the Remuera Primary School here, greeting one another warmly in a schoolyard filled with New Zealanders. 
 The mothers, members of the largest group of foreigners at the public school, were part of what are known in South Korea as ''wild geese,'' families living separately, sometimes for years, to school their children in English-speaking countries like New Zealand and the United States. The mothers and children live overseas while the fathers live and work in South Korea, flying over to visit a couple of times a year.
 Driven by a shared dissatisfaction with South Korea's rigid educational system, parents in rapidly expanding numbers are seeking to give their children an edge by helping them become fluent in English while sparing them, and themselves, the stress of South Korea's notorious educational pressure cooker.
 More than 40,000 South Korean schoolchildren are believed to be living outside South Korea with their mothers in what experts say is an outgrowth of a new era of globalized education. 
 The phenomenon is the first time that South Korean parents' famous focus on education has split wives from husbands and children from fathers. It has also upended traditional migration patterns by which men went overseas temporarily while their wives and children stayed home, straining marriages and the Confucian ideal of the traditional Korean family. The cost of maintaining two households has stretched family budgets since most wives cannot work outside South Korea because of visa restrictions.
 In 2006, 29,511 children from elementary through high school level left South Korea, nearly double the number in 2004 and almost seven times the figure in 2000, according to the Korean Educational Development Institute, a research group that tracks the figures for the Ministry of Education. The figures, the latest available, did not include children accompanying parents who left South Korea to work or emigrate, and who could also be partly motivated by educational goals.
 South Koreans now make up the largest group of foreign students in the United States (more than 103,000) and the second largest in New Zealand after Chinese students, according to American and New Zealand government statistics. Yet, unlike other foreign students, South Koreans tend to go overseas starting in elementary school -- in the belief that they will absorb English more easily at that age.
 In New Zealand, there were 6,579 South Koreans in the country's elementary and secondary schools in 2007, accounting for 38 percent of all foreign students. 
 ''We talked about coming here for two years before we finally did it,'' said Kim Soo-in, 39, who landed here 16 months ago with her two sons. ''It was never a question of whether to do it, but when. We knew we had to do it at some point.''
 Wild geese fathers were initially relatively wealthy and tended to send their families to the United States. But in the last few years, more middle-class families have been heading to less expensive destinations like Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
 Now, there are also ''eagle fathers,'' who visit their families several times a year because they have the time and money. Those with neither, who are stuck in South Korea, are known as ''penguin fathers.''
 The national experience is considered enough of a social problem that an aide to South Korea's president recently singled out the plight of the penguin fathers.
 President Lee Myung-bak said he would start to address the problem by hiring 10,000 English teachers. ''This is unprecedented,'' he said. ''Korea is actually the only country in the world undergoing such a phenomenon, which is very unfortunate.''
 South Korean students routinely score at the top in international academic tests. But unhappiness over education's financial and psychological costs is so widespread that it is often cited as a reason for the country's low birthrate, which, at 1.26 in 2007, was one of the world's lowest. 
 South Korean parents say that the schools are failing to teach not only English but also other skills crucial in an era of globalization, like creative thinking. That resonates among South Koreans, whose economy has slowed after decades of high growth and who believe they are increasingly being squeezed between the larger economies of Japan and China.
 It could take years to see how well this wave of children will fare back in South Korea, especially since they are now going overseas at the elementary level. But earlier this decade, when the wild geese children tended to be high school students, many succeeded in plying their improved English scores to get into colleges in the United States or other English-speaking countries, education experts said. For others, their years overseas was a roundabout way to get into top South Korean colleges, like Yonsei University in Seoul, which increasingly offer courses or entire programs in English.
 For New Zealand's public schools, which charge foreign students annual tuition of $8,700, South Koreans provide an important source of revenue. The economic benefits have helped offset resentment toward an Asian influx that has remade many schools in Auckland, the country's largest city, lending an Asian character to the business district and raising home prices in the wealthier suburbs. 
 At Remuera Primary, Ms. Kim said she believed that English fluency would increase her sons' chances of gaining admission to selective secondary schools in South Korea and ultimately to a leading university in Seoul. Her husband, Park Il-ryang, 43, graduated from a little-known Korean university, and he said that the resulting lack of connections had hampered his own career. 
 Before coming here, the parents had sent one son, Jun-sung, now 10, to evening cram schools and their other son, Jun-woo, now 8, to an English preschool. Parents in their apartment building talked incessantly about their children's education.
 Even so, the sons were not making sufficient progress in English, the parents said. They hired a private English tutor to supplement the supplementary cram schools. ''We didn't think the cram schools were doing any good, but we were too insecure to stop sending them, because the other parents were sending their children,'' Ms. Kim said.
 At their house recently, the sons peeked through the living-room blinds to see whether their neighbor, Charles Price, was free to play. In no time, the boys were coming and going, barefoot, between the houses, carrying ''Bionicle'' action figures.
 The parents were pleased that their sons had integrated well into the neighborhood and school, and were now even speaking English to each other. But Ms. Kim was worried that her younger son was making shockingly simple mistakes in his spoken Korean and might not form a solid ''Korean identity.''
 Striking the right balance would be critical to the brothers' re-entry into South Korea, with its fierce competition to get into the best schools. 
 South Korean women's rising social status and growing economic power have fueled the wild geese migration, according to education experts like Oh Ook-whan, a professor at Ehwa Womans University who has studied the separated families. Conservatives have criticized the wild geese mothers for being obsessed about their children's education at the risk of destroying their marriages. The women's real intention, they say, is to get as far away as possible from their mothers-in-law.
 The mothers say they are the modern-day successors to one of the most famous mothers in East Asia: the mother of Mencius, the fourth-century Chinese Confucian philosopher. In a story known in South Korea, as well as China and Japan, Mencius's mother moved to three neighborhoods before finding the environment most favorable to her son's education.
 ''I don't know why Mencius's mother is so revered and why we wild geese mothers are so criticized,'' said Chang Soo-jin, 37, who moved here with her two children nearly two years ago. ''Our coming out here is exactly the same as what she did.''
 Here, the English skills of her 6-year-old daughter, Amy, have improved so much that she now has the reading abilities of an 8-year-old, said her teacher at Sunderland, a small private school where all 16 foreign students come from South Korea.
 Yet Amy's father, Kevin Park, 41, was not totally convinced that the benefits had been worth splitting up the family. He had reluctantly agreed with his wife's decision to come here with the children and then extend their stay, twice.
 After his family left Seoul, Mr. Park, an engineer, moved into what South Koreans call an ''officetel,'' a building with small units that can be used as apartments or offices. Hearing about wild geese fathers becoming dissolute living by themselves, he stopped drinking at home.
 ''I'm alone, I miss my family,'' Mr. Park said grimly in an interview in Seoul. ''Families should live together.''
 Living apart for years strains marriages and undermines the role of a father, traditionally the center of the family in South Korea's Confucian culture, education experts and psychologists said. Some spouses have affairs; some marriages end in divorce.
 ''Even if there are problems, some couples choose to ignore them for the sake of their children's education,'' said Choi Yang-suk, a psychologist at Yonsei who has studied wild geese families in the United States and Canada.
 Here, Park Jeong-won, 40, and her husband, Kim Yoon-seok, 45, an ophthalmologist who was here on a visit, said their marriage had grown stronger despite living apart for four and a half years. Every reunion, they said, was like a honeymoon.
 But while Ms. Park said she talked to her husband a couple of hours daily by phone, she said her son and daughter never asked to talk to their father. He, in turn, never asked to talk to his children, the couple said. 
 ''We may be a strange family,'' Ms. Park said.
 Dr. Kim said his own father had always been too busy with work to spend much time with the family, and on weekends woke up at 4 a.m. to play golf.
 ''Maybe that's why, now that I'm a father, I have a similar relationship with my son,'' he said.
 Asked whether she missed her father, Ellin, 11, said: ''I don't miss him that much. I see him every year.''
 ''Do you think that's enough?'' her mother asked, a little surprised.
 Ellin corrected herself and said she saw him twice a year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: To allow Amy Park, a Korean, to study English in New Zealand, her parents decided to live apart. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STACY AREZOU MEHRFAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Park Jun-woo, 8, right, attends a school in Auckland, New Zealand, where he lives with his mother and older brother. His father stayed behind in South Korea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STACY AREZOU MEHRFAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Amy Park's father, Kevin Park, agreed that she should leave South Korea to study abroad. But, he said, ''I miss my family.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEOKYONG LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); FAMILY (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); STATISTICS (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); BUDGETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (73%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); NEW ZEALAND (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



176 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE COUNT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: That Spirit of Volunteerism, 60 Million Strong

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
Why do people volunteer? Maybe it's a need to help out, do good and give back. Maybe it's boredom, a desire to meet new people or concern that one's obituary won't have much to say. Whatever the reason, volunteering is a real boon to the organizations that receive that labor free. 
 According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, more than 60 million Americans volunteered through or for an organization between September 2006 and September 2007, and they spent a median of 52 hours on their volunteer work. People between the ages of 35 and 54 were the most likely to volunteer.
 The volunteer rate held steady at 28.8 percent from 2003 through 2005, but started falling after that, to 26.2 percent in 2007.
 What does it mean that a smaller share of people are volunteering? Maybe Americans are becoming more selfish. Or maybe the economy is pushing more people into the position of needing help rather than being able to offer it.
 PHYLLIS KORKKI 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Who Gives Back: A higher percentage of women volunteer than men, and people aged 35 to 54 are more likely to volunteer than those younger and older.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart details bar graph for volunteers by gender and bolunteers by age. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEERS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); STATISTICS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



177 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Who'll Help Students Pay for College?

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 ''Student Loans Start to Bypass 2-Year Colleges'' (front page, June 2) discussed how turmoil in the student lending market is causing anxiety for consumers, especially those attending community colleges. I'd like to reassure students and families that the type of institution they attend should not keep them from getting the federal support for which they qualify.
 To help students concentrate on their studies instead of worrying about loans, we at the Department of Education are acting to help keep the lending market viable. We are offering short-term relief for lenders in this difficult environment, and we will continue working with stakeholders to help protect students against shifting market forces. With President Bush and Congress, we raised the Pell Grant maximum to a historic $4,800 per student, providing added relief, especially in light of soaring tuition costs. 
 Times of economic uncertainty mean more Americans look to higher education as a gateway to opportunity. We're making sure that gate remains open.
 Sara Martinez Tucker Under Secretary of Education Washington, June 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Banks and Student Loans'' (editorial, June 3):
 I was a full-time professor at a community college for 42 years. Over those years, I saw countless economically disadvantaged students benefit from the federally backed student loan program. It is hard to believe that the banking industry is now subverting this program, only to offer these loans to wealthier students at elite colleges.
 If a bank denies an otherwise creditworthy student an educational loan simply because he or she attends a non-elite institution, that would seem to be a serious abuse of the federal student loan program and sufficient reason for denying those banks any future federal benefits. 
 Such ''socialism for the rich'' perversions of our egalitarian principles deserve careful scrutiny by our government officials.
 William Feigelman Jamaica, Queens, June 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 When Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts was running for president in 1988, he floated what I thought was an intriguing and very doable proposal. 
 Let the federal government guarantee loans for college education at all levels and collect the payments through automatic payroll deductions from the student's post-college paycheck. The rate of repayment would be set at the time of the loan, and would be a fixed percentage of the individual's income over his or her working lifetime.
 As a young father at the time, one who struggled to pay off college loans (a mere pittance compared with today's levels), I thought that the proposal made all the sense in the world. That's probably why it didn't go anywhere. 
 Is it time to reconsider?
 Ron Guerriero Ashland, Mass., June 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In recent years, Congress has cut more than $38 billion from the bank-based student loan program, despite warnings from banks that these cuts would jeopardize the availability of loans to the students and their families who need them.
 Given these cuts and the volatility in the credit markets, lender returns on student loans have decreased below an acceptable level, forcing lenders to decline to make certain loans. 
 Lenders would welcome a workable solution to these issues, but some in Congress prefer simply to call for the government to make all student loans under the direct student loan program.
 The federal budget suggests that direct loans are no cheaper to taxpayers than bank-based loans and in some cases cost more. Direct loans are also subject to higher default rates and inferior customer service. 
 Private lenders currently provide approximately $85 billion a year in student loans. Where would these funds come from without private lenders? American taxpayers and the national debt.
 Our members remain willing to work with the government and our nation's educational institutions to explore a truly workable solution.
 Joe Belew President Consumer Bankers Association Arlington, Va., June 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Student Loans Start to Bypass 2-Year Colleges'':
 Our nation's economy is not driven solely by the graduates of prestigious universities, but rather is dependent on many sectors of higher education. By making it more difficult for students at two-year colleges to get loans, banks are turning their backs on the lower-income students who make up the majority of the student body at these community colleges and an ever-expanding portion of our overall population.
 Proprietary colleges prepare students to enter the work force. We are proud that in 2005-6, nearly 10,000 students graduated with associate degrees from the 30 accredited colleges that are members of the Association of Proprietary Colleges. More than 90 percent of them were placed in jobs in New York. 
 These graduates are now contributing to the economy and paying taxes. For New York, and for the rest of the country, these are two benefits of a two-year college education. If banks want to ensure their own future, they must invest in the people who will help secure it.
 Stephen J. Jerome Bronx, June 3, 2008
 The writer, president of Monroe College, is chairman of the Association of Proprietary Colleges.
 To the Editor:
 An estimated one million students at two-year colleges cannot get federal student loans. But this is not the fault of greedy bankers. It is the result of the colleges themselves opting out of the federal loan programs. 
 By denying access to federal loans, these colleges leave students with two bad choices for paying for books and other expenses: using credit cards with high interest rates, or working more hours, which makes it difficult to study and stay in college. 
 Some students will find it a hassle that the bank they were using previously for their federal student loan is no longer interested in their business. But having to switch lenders is a better problem than not have access to a low-cost federal loan at all.
 Robert Shireman Berkeley, Calif., June 2, 2008
 The writer is executive director of the project on student debt at the Institute for College Access and Success.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM GOUGH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); STUDENT LOANS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



178 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Cross-Country Journeys

BYLINE: By DIANE IRVINE; as told to AMY ZIPKIN. 
As told to Amy Zipkin.

 BODY:
BOTH sets of my grandparents were dairy farmers. When I was in fifth grade we moved to a farm that my father had purchased. We had a couple of hundred acres, 250 head of beef cattle and 5,000 chickens.
 My job was to collect the eggs without mishap, wash them so they were clean, inspect them and pack the eggs in cartons. I also drove a tractor, at 14, before I learned how to drive a car. 
 I thought I wanted to be a sportswriter because I grew up with the Chicago Cubs and Bears. After a Bears-Dallas Cowboys game in 1973, I wrote a letter to Dick Butkus, the Chicago Bears linebacker. Fans were booing the Bears, and I said I was proud to be at the game and apologized for the fans. 
 When I was in high school, my accounting instructor laid out the path for me to become a C.P.A. He said it was a long road and a lot of hard work. I decided that it would be my major in college.
 I interned for Coopers & Lybrand in Chicago during my senior year in college, and I loved it from the moment I got there. My first audit was at a company called Union Special that made industrial sewing machines. Our office was right next to the payroll department, and the four women there had a combined 100 years of experience. They would always bring us desserts. After graduation, I joined the company full time. 
 In 1985, my soon-to-be husband, who worked for SKF Industries, was being transferred to Seattle, and I arranged a transfer, too. I was close to my family, and we were the first people in our families to move away. We left on a Tuesday and arrived on a Sunday after a detour to Mount Rushmore. When we got to Seattle it was pouring. I remember thinking at first: ''It's not Chicago. We'll stay a year and move back.'' 
 My husband and I learned how to rely on each other. The new city was an adjustment. I learned how to try something completely new and have confidence in what I was doing.
 In 1999, I was contacted by a recruiter who had been referred by a venture capital company that had invested in a company then called Internet Diamonds. While I was cautious about a start-up, I met the founder, Mark Vadon, for dinner and thought, ''I think this can work.'' I joined the company as chief financial officer. Before the end of the year, the name changed to Blue Nile.
 The economy was bad, and we needed money to get to profitability. Mark and I flew across the country and met with about 90 private equity firms, and not one would give us money. Then our existing investors put in additional capital.
 Shortly after we were funded again, a group of us arrived in New York City to visit our suppliers. We arrived on Sept. 10, 2001. The next morning we were having a breakfast meeting at the Palace Hotel before our meetings. I went back to the hotel room, and one of the housekeepers had the television on. I saw the second tower being hit. There were five of us from Blue Nile and we felt very far from home. Walking down Fifth Avenue to our meetings, I saw the towers burning. By that time the airports were closed and there was no way to leave the city. Pictures of missing people were posted everywhere.
 The city was so quiet, and after two days we met for lunch and the five of us had to decide whether to wait for the airports to open or to drive home. Driving won by a 3-to-2 vote. We left our hotel at 4:30 on Friday morning and took a car service to Newark Airport where we rented a Ford Expedition. With five drivers we made it home in 46 hours. I was the only female on the trip.
 We made it to Seattle just after midnight on Saturday night. August 2001 had been our first month of profitability. We'd made $1,000, and now $600 was spent on renting the Ford Expedition. Still, it was a bonding experience with one another and with our suppliers. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); TABLE EGG INDUSTRY (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); FAMILY (77%); POULTRY (77%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (75%); SPORTS (75%); TABLE EGGS (72%); BASEBALL (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (64%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BEARS (93%); CHICAGO CUBS (57%); DALLAS COWBOYS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



179 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: The Lesson of the Fulbright Seven

 BODY:
Seven highly qualified and carefully vetted Palestinian students from the Israeli-blockaded Gaza Strip will come to the United States for advanced study after all. 
 After reporting in The Times by Ethan Bronner drew high-level American attention, top State Department officials intervened to restore the students' Fulbright fellowships that lower-level functionaries had notified them would be withdrawn. Israel has agreed to facilitate special exit permits. 
 It is a welcome victory -- for the students; for Israel, which should want to see more of Gaza's young people follow a path of hope and education rather than hopelessness and martyrdom; and for the United States, whose image in the Middle East badly needs burnishing. 
 It should not be the end of the story. There are hundreds of other foreign fellowship winners still trapped in Gaza by the same Israeli policy that nearly blocked the Fulbright Seven. On Thursday, an Israeli official told The Times that the government would allow a very limited number of additional students to leave Gaza to study abroad. That is a clear step in the right direction, but not enough. Gaza is home to roughly 1.5 million Palestinians. Some 600 foreign scholarship winners have been barred from leaving. 
 The ban on student departures is part of the wider Israeli economic blockade imposed on the civilian population of Gaza in response to Hamas rule and a steady rain of rocket attacks. This also needs to be re-examined. 
 Israel has a right and a duty to defend itself and to fight back against Hamas terrorism. But punishing students, and any other forms of collective punishment, will only sow more anger and hate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HAMAS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); TERRORISM (78%); STUDENT DISCIPLINE (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



180 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ARCHITECTURE ISSUE; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 3207 words

HEADLINE: The New, New City

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF. 
Nicolai Ouroussoff is the architecture critic of The New York Times.

 BODY:
''Don't tell anyone,'' Rem Koolhaas said to me several years ago as we headed down the F.D.R. Drive in New York, ''but the 20th-century city is over. It has nothing new to teach us anymore. Our job is simply to maintain it.'' Koolhaas's viewpoint is widely shared by close observers of the evolution of cities. But not even Koolhaas, it seems, was completely prepared for what would come next. 
 In both China and the Persian Gulf, cities comparable in size to New York have sprouted up almost overnight. Only 30 years ago, Shenzhen was a small fishing village of a few thousand people, and Dubai had merely a quarter million people. Today Shenzhen has a population of eight million, and Dubai's glittering towers, rising out of the desert in disorderly rows, have become playgrounds for wealthy expatriates from Riyadh and Moscow. Long-established cities like Beijing and Guangzhou have more than doubled in size in a few decades, their original outlines swallowed by rings of new development. Built at phenomenal speeds, these generic or instant cities, as they have been called, have no recognizable center, no single identity. It is sometimes hard to think of them as cities at all. Dubai, which lays claim to some of the world's most expensive private islands, the tallest building and soon the largest theme park, has been derided as an urban tomb where the rich live walled off from the poor migrant workers who serve them. Shenzhen is often criticized as a product of unregulated development, better suited to the speculators that first spurred its growth than to the workers housed in huge complexes of factory-run barracks. Yet for architects these cities have also become vast fields of urban experimentation, on a scale that not even the early Modernists, who first envisioned the city as a field of gleaming towers, could have dreamed of.
 ''The old contextual model is not very relevant anymore,'' Jesse Reiser, an American architect working in Dubai, told me recently. ''What context are we talking about in a city that's a few decades old? The problem is that we are only beginning to figure out where to go from here.''
 The sheer number of projects under construction and the corresponding investment in civic infrastructure -- entire networks of new subway systems, freeways and canals; gargantuan new airports and public parks -- can give the impression that anything is possible in this new world. The scale of these undertakings recalls the early part of the last century in America, when the country was confidently pointed toward the future. But it would be unimaginable in an American city today, where, in the face of shrinking state and city budgets, expanding a single subway line can seem like a heroic act. ''In America, I could never do work like I do here,'' Steven Holl, a New York architect with several large projects in China, recently told me, referring to his latest complex in Beijing. ''We've become too backward-looking. In China, they want to make everything look new. This is their moment in time. They want to make the 21st century their century. For some reason, our society wants to make everything old. I think we somehow lost our nerve.''
 Holl has reason to be exhilarated. His Beijing project, ''Linked Hybrid,'' is one of the most innovative housing complexes anywhere in the world: eight asymmetrical towers joined by a network of enclosed bridges that create a pedestrian zone in the sky. Yet this exhilaration also comes at a price: only the wealthiest of Beijing's residents can afford to live here. Climbing to the top of one of Holl's towers, I looked out through a haze of smog at the acres of luxury-housing towers that surround his own, the kind of alienating subdivisions that are so often cited as a symptom of the city's unbridled, dehumanizing development. Protected by armed guards, these residential high-rises stood on what was until quite recently a working-class neighborhood, even though the poor quality of their construction makes them seem decades old. Nearby, a new freeway cut through the neighborhood, further disfiguring an area that, however modest, was once bursting with life.
 ''If you take Venturi's ideas about the city,'' Holl said, referring to Robert Venturi's groundbreaking work, ''Learning From Las Vegas,'' which called on architects to reconsider the importance of the everyday (strip malls, billboards, storefronts), ''and put them in Beijing or Tokyo, they don't hold any water at all. When you get into this scale, the rules have to be rewritten. The density is so incredible.'' Because of this density, cities like Beijing have few of the features we associate with a traditional metropolis. They do not radiate from a historic center as Paris and New York do. Instead, their vast size means that they function primarily as a series of decentralized neighborhoods, something closer in spirit to Los Angeles. The breathtaking speed of their construction means that they usually lack the layers -- the mix of architectural styles and intricately related social strata -- that give a city its complexity and from which architects have typically drawn inspiration. 
 In Dubai, for instance, what might once have been the product of 100 years of urban growth has been compressed into a decade or so. Given such seismic shifts, even the most talented architects can seem to flounder for new models. No one wants to return to the deadly homogeneity associated with Modernism's tabula rasa planning strategies. The image of Le Corbusier hovering godlike above Paris ready to wipe aside entire districts and replace them with glass towers remains an emblem of Modernism's attack on the city's historical fabric. Yet the notion of finding ''authenticity'' in a sprawling metropolitan area that is barely 30 years old also seems absurd. How do you breathe life into a project at such a scale? How do you instill the fine-grained texture of a healthy community into one that rose overnight?
 Cities like these, built on a colossal scale, seem to absorb any urban model, no matter how unique, virtually unnoticed. A project that could have a significant impact on the character of, say, New York -- like the development plans for ground zero -- can seem a mere blip in Beijing, which has embarked on dozens of similarly sized endeavors in the last decade alone. ''The irony is that we still don't know if postmodernism was the end of Modernism or just an interruption,'' Koolhaas told me recently. ''Was it a brief hiatus, and now we are returning to something that has been going on for a long time, or is it something radically different? We are in a condition we don't understand yet.''
 For architects faced with building these large urban developments, the difficulty is to create something where there was nothing. If much of contemporary architecture depends on sifting through the cultural and historical layers that a site accumulates over time -- whether neo-Classical monuments or Socialist-era housing -- what can be done if there is nothing to sift through but sand?
 In a recent design for a six-and-a-half-square-mile development in Dubai called Waterfront City, Koolhaas proposed creating an urban island inspired by a section of Midtown Manhattan. The design linked a dense grid of conventional towers to the mainland by a system of bridges. A series of stunning ''iconic'' buildings -- a gigantic, hollowed-out Piranesian sphere at the island's edge; a spiraling tower that winds around an airy public atrium -- were intended to give the city a distinct flavor. Koolhaas said he hoped, in this way, to infuse this entirely new development with something of the feeling of an older city. But while the outlines are intriguing, he is still coming to terms with how to create an organic whole. In the early stages of the design, Koolhaas experimented with somewhat conventional models of public space: a boardwalk along the island's perimeter, a narrow park cutting through its center, classical arcades lining the downtown streets. But the majority of Dubai's inhabitants are foreign-born, and the arcaded streets could easily suggest a theme-park version of a traditional Arab city. Koolhaas is painfully aware of how hard it is to escape the generic.
 ''A city like Dubai is literally built on a desert,'' Koolhaas conceded when I asked him about the project. ''There is a weird alternation between density and emptiness. You rarely feel that you are designing for people who are actually there but for communities that have yet to be assembled. The vernacular is too faint, too precarious to become something on which you can base an architecture.''
 Koolhaas says he hopes that the plan will gain in complexity as the buildings' functions are worked out; he says he was thrilled to learn that the government wanted both a courthouse and a mosque on the island. ''Another option that I personally find very interesting,'' Koolhaas told me, ''is the modernist vernacular of the 1970s -- buildings that once you put them in Singapore or Dubai take on totally different meanings. Some of the modern typologies work in Asia even though they are totally dysfunctional in America. Typologies we've rejected turn out to be viable in other contexts.''
 The challenges of building what amounts to a small-scale city from scratch are compounded by the realities of working in a global marketplace. An architect of Koolhaas's stature may be grappling simultaneously with the design of a television headquarters complex in Beijing, a stock exchange in Shenzhen and a 20-block neighborhood in Dubai, as well as a dozen buildings in Europe. The intense competition for these commissions means that architects are often forced to churn out seductive designs in weeks or months, tweaking their models to fit local conditions. 
 Several years ago, the London-based, Iraqi-born architect Zaha Hadid received a phone call from a Chinese developer asking if she might be interested in designing a 500-acre urban development on the outskirts of Singapore. Hadid had never met the developer before. She was soon working on the master plan for ''One North,'' a mixed-use development with a projected population of about 140,000. Located on what was once a military site, Hadid's design conjured a high-tech mountainous terrain. Dubbed the ''urban carpet,'' it was intended to blend office and residential towers and highways and public parks into a seamless whole. Against the rigid lines of the traditional street grid, the sinuous curves of the freeways suggested a more fluid, mobile society. The rooftops, whose heights were subject to stringent regulations, looked as if they were cut from a single piece of crumpled fabric, giving the composition a haunting unity. ''We wanted to create a complex order rather than either the monotony of Modernism or the chaos you find in contemporary cities,'' Hadid said.
 Yet once construction began, the design of the buildings was left to local architects hired by the developer. As the towers rose in clusters scattered across the site, it was difficult to read the formal intent. With more than 20 blocks now complete, parts of the city look surprisingly conventional. 
 Hadid revived the concept several years later, when she won a competition to create a 1,360-acre business district in a former industrial zone on the outskirts of Istanbul. This time, the context was more promising: a hilly landscape at the edge of the sea flanked by older working-class neighborhoods on either side. To allow the development to grow in a more natural way than at One North, it would be built in phases that would begin at the waterfront and spread inland, eventually connecting to the street grid of the older neighborhoods. In an effort to preserve the texture of her original concept, Hadid developed a series of building prototypes, including a star-shaped tower and a housing block organized around a central court, and staggered the heights of the buildings to reflect the existing terrain.
 If Hadid's plan is formally inventive, it is still unclear whether it has escaped the homogeneity that was a hallmark of Modernist urban-renewal projects. Its sheer size coupled with the fact that the shapes of the buildings were conceived by a single architect means the result may well be more uniform, and ultimately more rigid, than Hadid intended. 
 Indeed, contemporary architects' urban plans may be less tied to location than they would like to admit. When a Chinese developer approached the New York-based Jesse Reiser and Nanako Umemoto to design a 1,235-acre development in Foshan, on the Pearl River Delta, they (with a Chinese partner) came up with a system of urban ''mats'': a multilayered network of roads and low-rise commercial spaces, topped by a park surrounded by residential and commercial buildings. The park followed the contours of the roadways below; sunken courtyards allowed light to spill down into the underground spaces. Last year, the Chinese project fell through, and Reiser and Umemoto reworked the idea for a developer in Dubai. The layout was reconfigured to fit the new waterfront site; souks were added as a nod to local traditions. The result is a remarkably nuanced view of how to knit together the various elements of urban life, but it also seems as if it could exist anywhere.
 The walkable, mixed-use neighborhoods celebrated by Jane Jacobs may seem impossibly remote, but encouraging signs of a more textured urban reality can still be found. Take Holl's Linked Hybrid in Beijing, for example, which has a surprisingly open, communal spirit. A series of massive portals lead from the street to an elaborate internal courtyard garden, a restaurant, a theater and a kindergarten, integrating the complex into the surrounding neighborhood. Bridges connect the towers 12 to 19 stories above ground and are conceived as a continuous string of public zones, with bars and nightclubs overlooking a glittering view of the city and a suspended swimming pool. ''The developer's openness to ideas was amazing,'' Holl says. ''When they first asked me to do the project, it was just housing. I suggested adding the cinematheque, the kindergarten. I added an 80-room hotel and the swimming pool as well. Anywhere else, they'd build it in phases over several years. It's too big. After our meeting, they said we're building the whole thing all at once. I couldn't believe it. We haven't had to compromise anything.
 ''But what makes it possible is the density. The Modernist idea of the street in the air that became a place of social interaction never worked in Europe. Beijing is so dense that I can keep all of the shops functioning on the street, and there's still enough energy to activate the bridges as well.''
 Holl is continuing to explore these ideas in another megaproject, this time on the outskirts of Shenzhen: a zigzag-shaped office complex propped up on big steel columns that make room for a dreamy public garden. The density in much of Shenzhen can make Beijing look spacious. The imposing skyline of glass-and-steel towers, plastered with electronic billboards, was built mostly within the last decade, part of the boom that followed foreign investment in the area, when it was declared a special economic zone in the early '80s. The Chinese government initially allowed many of the small villages that lined the delta to hold on to their land. As land values rose around them, the villagers remained in their increasingly populated districts, where they built cheap, and often instantly decrepit, towers that were so close together they were dubbed ''handshake buildings'': you could literally reach out your window and shake hands with your neighbor across the street. The villages are poignant testimonies to the hardships that young workers, recently transplanted from the countryside, face in the new China. Many live packed a half dozen or more in one-bedroom apartments. But if Shenzhen is an emblem of what can happen when free-market capitalism is allowed to run amok, it is also an example of the spontaneous creativity that occurs when people are left to fend for themselves. On a recent visit, the alleyways, dark and claustrophobic, were thick with shops. Elderly people played mah-jongg on card tables in the street; two young children sat at a small desk doing their homework in a tiny storefront that doubled as their bedroom.
 Wenyi Wu, a young architect working for a Chinese firm called Urbanus, led me around the area. The firm has been studying how people carve a living space out of seemingly inhospitable environments, hoping to develop an urbanist model more deeply rooted in the spontaneity of everyday life. He took me to a small museum Urbanus designed on the outskirts of the city. A series of stepped galleries stand at the base of a hill between an urban village and some banal housing complexes above. A series of long ramps pierce the building, joining the two worlds. More ramps encircle the exterior, so that you have the impression of moving through a system of loosely connected alleyways. The idea was to transform the unregulated character of the urban village into something more formal and humane -- to extract the essence of its character without romanticizing the squalor. The circuitous paths of the ramps echo the surrounding alleyways; the layout of the galleries suggests the footprint of the migrant workers' housing but on a more intimate scale. 
 Other architects, hoping to build in ways that reflect an emerging vernacular, are taking a similar approach, looking at more modest and more informally constructed urban neighborhoods for inspiration. Shumon Basar, a London-based critic and independent curator, recently described a number of small, unplanned settlements in and around Dubai. The dense and gritty neighborhood of Deira, for instance, has little in common with Sheikh Zayed Road and its fortified glass towers. Built mainly in the 1970s, Deira's low concrete structures and labyrinthine alleyways are home to a lively population of Southeast Asian workers. Similarly, the thriving, traditionally Muslim middle-class neighborhoods of Sharjah, the third-largest city in the United Arab Emirates, were built without the flashiness of more recent developments. Basar wonders if, despite their modesty, these areas could form the basis for a fresh urban strategy based neither on imported Western models nor on cliches about local souks. 
 As Holl told me recently in his New York office, working on a large scale doesn't mean that the particulars of place no longer matter. ''I don't think of any of my buildings as a model for something, the way the Modernists did,'' Holl said. ''If it works, it works in its specific context. You can't just move it somewhere else.'' 
 But is site specificity enough? ''The amount of building becomes obscene without a blueprint,'' Koolhaas said. ''Each time you ask yourself, Do you have the right to do this much work on this scale if you don't have an opinion about what the world should be like? We really feel that. But is there time for a manifesto? I don't know.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW SHENZHEN ENCIRCLES OLD: In the center, one of the city's original urban villages, with its signature ''handshake buildings'' -- so close together you could reach across to your neighbor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SZE TSUNG LEONG)
MASTER PLANNED: Zaha Hadid's design for the Kartal Pendik neighborhood in Istanbul (top) and Steven Holl's Linked Hybrid (below), an apartment and entertainment complex in Beijing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOP: ZAHA HADID ARCHITECTS. BOTTOM: IWAN BAAN/STEVEN HOLL ARCHITECTS)
HOUSING UTOPIA: Residential towers in Shenzhen built in the Socialist style. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SZE TSUNG LEONG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE FRONTIER: Southwestern Shenzhen under construction (PHOTOGRAPH BY SZE TSUNG LEONG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MAP: In Africa and Asia, the number of urban dwellers will double between 2000 and 2030. That is, the urban population of the two continents will grow as much in 30 years as it did from the beginning of history until today. (SOURCE: U.N. POPULATION FUND
 CHART: Percentage of the world's urban population living in developing countries versus percentage who live in developed countries -- in 1950 and as projected in 2030. (SOURCE: THE URBAN AGE PROJECT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); BUDGETS (74%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); MIGRANT WORKERS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (64%); AIRPORTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (78%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (57%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); INDIAN OCEAN (77%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); TURKEY (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); GULF STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



181 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: OIL PRICES RAISE COST OF MAKING RANGE OF GOODS

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Surging oil prices are beginning to cut into the profits of a wide range of American businesses, pushing many to raise prices and maneuver aggressively to offset the rising cost of merchandise made from petroleum. 
 Airlines, package shippers and car owners are no longer the only ones being squeezed by the ever-mounting price of oil, which shot up almost $11 a barrel on Friday alone, to $138.54, a record.
 Companies that make hard goods using raw materials derived from oil, like tires, toiletries, plastic packaging and computer screens, are watching their costs skyrocket, and they find themselves forced into unpleasant choices: Should they raise prices, shift to less costly procedures, cut workers, or all three?
 The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company is trying to adapt. Its raw material of choice now is natural rubber rather than synthetic rubber, made from oil. To sustain profits, it is making more high-end tires for consumers willing to pay upwards of $100 to replace each tire on their cars. 
 These steps have not been enough, however, particularly now that the cost of natural rubber is also rising sharply, along with that of many other commodities. So Goodyear has raised the prices of its tires by 15 percent in just four months.
 ''Our strategy is to raise prices and improve the mix to offset the cost of raw materials,'' said Keith Price, a Goodyear spokesman. ''No one has predicted how long we can continue to do that.''
 The sense that many companies may be hitting a wall is palpable. Corporate profits peaked last spring and have shrunk since then, Moody's Economy.com reports, drawing on Commerce Department data.
 The housing crisis and the weakening economy are big reasons, but oil prices are adding greatly to the pressure on profits as retailers fail to pass along higher prices to consumers. That helps to explain why expensive oil has not yet pushed up the inflation rate.
 So far this year, the nation's employers have been cutting jobs at an accelerating pace, particularly last month, when the unemployment rate jumped to 5.5 percent from 5 percent. But with the vise on corporate profits tightening and the price of oil continuing to climb, more dire action, including job cuts and higher prices, may be in store, economists say, although there is still room to avoid such steps.
 ''Companies came into this period with extraordinarily high profit margins,'' said Edward McKelvey, chief domestic economist at Goldman Sachs, ''and some of the surge in raw material costs will be absorbed by lowering those profits.'' 
 Still, the prevailing attitude that the economy could just keep absorbing higher oil prices is being tested -- for the first time in nearly 30 years. Adjusted for inflation, a barrel of crude is now more expensive than it was in 1980, the previous peak.
 ''The conventional wisdom a couple of years ago was that oil did not have that much leverage over the economy,'' said Daniel Yergin, chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates. ''But now it plainly does. People are suddenly paying much more attention to their energy costs and trying to figure out how to manage them.''
 Goodyear has kept its head above water in part by passing along some of the higher prices to dealers. The dealers, however, have not been able to pass along all of those increases to consumers and are absorbing the difference in lower profits.
 Since last spring, the average profits of the nation's corporations -- from behemoths like Goodyear to small neighborhood retailers -- have declined at an annual rate of nearly 6 percent, government data show.
 Even companies that have been performing well in the economic downturn are sounding notes of caution. Take Costco, the discount retail chain, which offers a wide array of consumer goods, food, wine, furniture, appliances, beauty aids and much more.
 Costco's profit was up in the first quarter, but James D. Sinegal, the chief executive, says he is ''starting to be confronted with unprecedented price increases'' for the merchandise that Costco buys to stock its stores. His first response has been to buy in extra large quantities so that he has stock on hand to carry him through subsequent price increases.
 ''We just made a big purchase of Tumi luggage,'' Mr. Sinegal said.
 Procter & Gamble finds itself in a similar predicament. For its fiscal year beginning next month, it expects to spend an additional $2 billion on oil-based raw materials and commodities. That is double last year's increase, and it is carved from total revenue of just under $80 billion.
 Price increases have helped to offset this cost. They have averaged nearly 5 percent for paper towels, bath tissues and diapers, all made with chemicals derived from oil, said Paul Fox, a company spokesman.
 Natural oils have been substituted for ingredients made from petroleum; for example, palm oil now goes into a variety of laundry soaps. But like rubber, the cost of palm oil and other natural commodities is rising.
 Trying to hold down raw material costs, Procter & Gamble has resorted to ''compacting'' a few laundry products, Mr. Fox said, so that the same amount of detergent fits into smaller and less costly containers made of plastic, which is derived from oil.
 Still, the company's operating profit edged down to 20.1 percent of revenue in the first quarter, from 21.9 percent in each of the two previous quarters. ''That 20.1 percent was down, but it was an improvement on the advance guidance we had given for that quarter,'' Mr. Fox said. 
 No business in America produces more of the oil-based ingredients that go into the nation's products than the Dow Chemical Company, based in Midland, Mich. From Dow's petrochemical operations come the basic ingredients of a wide variety of plastic bottles and packaging, including numerous containers once made of glass or tin.
 Indeed, paint, computer and television screens, mobile phones, light bulbs, cushions, paper, mattresses, car seats, carpets, steering wheels and polyesters are all made with ingredients that Dow and other chemical companies refine from oil and natural gas.
 Dow normally raises prices piecemeal. Last month, though, the surge in the cost of oil and natural gas, the company's principal raw materials, produced a rare across-the-board price increase of as much as 20 percent. 
 ''We have taken out head count, automated, been very diligent on cost control,'' said Andrew Liveris, Dow's chairman and chief executive, ''but these surges in energy prices are just one surge too many.''
 Dow's sweeping price increases will probably have a domino effect, resulting in higher prices or, more likely, shrinking profits, analysts say. Constrained by the weak economy and fewer wage earners among their customers, the nation's retailers have so far not been able to pass on to consumers much of the rising cost of products that depend on oil. The Consumer Price Index, minus food and energy, is barely rising.
 ''One of the surprises,'' said Patrick Jackman, a senior economist in the consumer price division of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, ''is that the oil price surges of the 1970s passed through fairly quickly into consumer prices, and this time that is not happening.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A tire store in Englewood, N.J. Goodyear has raised prices by 15 percent in just four months. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUBBER & SILICONE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); TIRES (77%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); RETAILERS (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); SYNTHETIC RUBBER (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (95%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: GT (SWX) (95%); GT (NASDAQ) (95%); GT (BRU) (95%); GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (95%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (95%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (95%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (95%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



182 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ARCHITECTURE ISSUE; Pg. 76

LENGTH: 3870 words

HEADLINE: Guerrilla Gardening

BYLINE: By JON MOOALLEM. 
Jon Mooallem, a contributing writer, last wrote for the magazine about the afterlife of cellphones.

 BODY:
Just after sunset on one of the first mild nights of spring, Richard Reynolds parked his hatchback near a traffic circle in the London neighborhood of Hoxton. Tied to his roof were a potted honeysuckle and a dozen box hedge plants, spilling out of garbage bags. Trays of bright white Paris daisies filled the trunk, and cartons of variegated ivy were wedged in the passenger seat. Hipsters drank indifferently outside a nearby pub.
 The car was swiftly unstuffed. Soon Reynolds and five accomplices were over a short black fence and onto a small, squalid crescent of land at a bend in the sidewalk. They were ankle-deep in food wrappers and beer bottles and the spindly overgrowth of a bullying bush that Reynolds -- bent over, wearing work gloves and high black rubber boots -- started clipping fervidly. 
 ''The problem is, it got too leggy,'' he said. ''This is the kind of plant that needs to be thinned every year, otherwise it becomes a scraggly mess.'' The shrub along the rear fence was in fine shape, however, and Reynolds imagined it could be pruned and incorporated into their new garden. ''That's a buddleja. A buddleja davidii. Its common name is a butterfly bush,'' he explained. (He takes a horticulture course one day a week in Regent's Park.) ''It has huge, very pendulous blooms.''
 Reynolds is 30, long-limbed and willowy, with a floppy pile of dark curls. For the next several hours, as he and his troops reclaimed this lost crumb of London, people -- young and old, lucid and drunk -- would pause on the sidewalk to stare or cheer them on. Many asked if this was what they suspected it must be: the vaguely political, very radical thing they've heard is happening around the city. And this being artsy Hoxton -- ''the Williamsburg of London,'' as one American ex-pat put it to me -- what seemed like every third passerby photographed the spectacle for his blog.
 But here at the outset, trash was being handed out of the thicket, then sorted into bags of recyclables by more foot soldiers. Full dumpsters were rolled across the street and swapped for empty ones. Someone found a wallet. Reynolds stood up holding a stainless-steel sink. A young woman in a green jacket with horses printed all over it stopped to ask what they were doing.
 ''We're gardening,'' Reynolds told her.
 ''Who are you gardening for?'' 
 ''For everyone and ourselves,'' he said. ''We're guerrilla gardeners.''
 Reynolds defines guerrilla gardening as ''the cultivation of someone else's land without permission.'' He didn't invent the term or the tactic but has become, as he puts it, ''a self-appointed publicist for the movement'' and the breadth of impulses and ideologies behind it. 
 Last week he published a book, ''On Guerrilla Gardening.'' It's a political history of people growing things where they shouldn't -- from Honduran squatters to the artists and students he credits with originating the term ''guerrilla gardening'' in New York City in the early '70s. During the city's financial crisis, the self-styled Green Guerillas began cultivating derelict lots around the Lower East Side, either by clipping barbed wire fences or chucking ''seed bombs'' over them -- Christmas ornaments or condoms filled with tomato seeds, water and fertilizer. After early confrontations, the city ultimately gave in and legitimized many of their plots into one of the country's first community-garden programs, staking a claim for green space before gentrification vaulted the value of all that abandoned land. 
 Today, rifling through the multitude of guerrilla-gardening Flickr pages and blogs -- discovering all the action in Amsterdam, Calgary, Turin, Tokyo or Long Beach -- you can almost start to see this kind of vigilante greening as the instinctual human response to city living. In ''On Guerrilla Gardening,'' Reynolds describes gardeners he has met around the world through his own blog, guerrillagardening.org. (Its forum, where guerrillas plan ''troop digs'' and exchange advice, now has more than 4,000 registered users.) These include a sunflower specialist in Brussels; a founder of an unsanctioned community garden currently fighting eviction from vacant lots in Berlin; and the San Franciscans who converted disused properties into vegetable gardens, even pirating absentee owners' water. Reynolds's book is also full of references to horticultural ''sleeper cells'' and ''shock and awe'' plantings, and culls tactical advice from the writings of Che Guevara and Mao Zedong -- though ''I think Mao comes across far more kindly than I intended him to,'' he told me regretfully.
 Reynolds has helped build 28 gardens around London over the last four years. Unlike many guerrillas I spoke to, he is not building big community gardens, growing food or hijacking neglected, privately owned land to critique the capitalist system. Instead, he is planting strictly ornamental arrangements of flowers and shrubs on roundabouts, roadsides, tree pits and other slivers of public land that have fallen into disrepair. He is fundamentally an aesthete. And at first glance, there's a confounding innocence to it all. Yet Reynolds has managed to stir controversy and, very recently, found himself surrounded by the police. He is quickly becoming both a subculture celebrity (Adidas sent him a treatment for a guerrilla-gardening-themed ad campaign) and a public intellectual, challenging ideas about what it means to live in a city -- simply by decorating one.
 Reynolds says that he has gardened with several hundred guerrillas in London and now hears of actions he had nothing to do with planning. A few weeks before the dig in Hoxton, a new acquaintance asked for his help reforming a muddy median near Camden's Hawley Arms pub -- a famed Amy Winehouse haunt that burned in a huge fire in February. ''It's been described here, very inappropriately, as the 9/11 of the indie world,'' Reynolds told me. In the spirit of healing, guerrillas replanted the area with hedging donated by a woman in Notting Hill. (Reynolds gets frequent donations of plants and cash and says he spent about $1,400 of his own money on gardening last year.) They planned to prune the hedges into topiary the shape of Winehouse's hairdo.
 Reynolds calls such neglected plots ''orphaned land.'' Sometimes, as is the case with the plot in Hoxton, each relevant city agency assumes another one is responsible for the upkeep of a particular patch. Orphaned land is an abundant, underutilized resource in the postindustrial city, as is the creative energy of people like Reynolds who would love to garden but can't afford land of their own. That is, even in cities where land is scarce and expensive, substantial amounts of it are left derelict. Thus, guerrilla gardening mobilizes gardeners without land to take over land without gardeners. A space that previously meant nothing to anyone is turned into ''a catalyst for community conversation,'' Reynolds says, generating a feeling of shared ownership of the city. 
 By now, most of his energy is devoted to looking after about a half-dozen established plots, keeping his work there from reverting into hives of overgrowth and litter. He and his girlfriend, Lyla Patel, often tidy up or weed at night, on their way home from pubs and parties. Patel, who is 27 and grew up in London, told me that the only times strangers have ever struck up conversations with her on the street are when she's gardening. 
 Patel and I took the tube to Hoxton together since Reynolds's car was packed with plants. She lovingly described him as easily impassioned and distracted -- a classic dilettante, if he weren't also an incorrigible overachiever about everything. Reynolds and his brother were briefly signed to a record label as an electronic-music duo, and along with a friend, he silkscreens and sells a line of T-shirts. One afternoon, he told me he was thinking about starting a one-man painting-and-decorating business to earn extra cash. The next day, he had a Web site up and his first job, redoing a bathroom.+
 ''There's always something to keep him occupied, and stressed,'' Patel explained. ''He pressures himself. He's a perfectionist. But people are always proud of their gardens when they've worked hard on them. It's just, Richard's gardens are all over the city.'' She smiled. ''And he is a show-off.''
 Christopher Woodward, director of London's Museum of Garden History, told me that Reynolds ''is a provocateur. He's asking questions.'' The museum recently held a party for Reynolds's book, and late last month, it staged a debate among Reynolds, an academic and a landscape architect about guerrilla gardening and changing attitudes toward public space. ''There is a real thirst to bring nature and the seasons back into the concrete city,'' Woodward said. ''Richard is one of a number of provocative, creative people in gardens, in horticulture, in public parks, who are genuinely changing the approach.'' As it happens, Woodward took part in his first guerrilla action the week before we spoke, scattering sunflower seeds and tending to a downed tree. ''We lifted the tree back up, and we all felt wonderful,'' he told me. ''There's definitely a real kick, isn't there, to digging up public land?''
 In Hoxton, after an hour of filth-clearing, a promising bed of black soil started to materialize. ''We've broken the back of it,'' Reynolds said. He turned up some dirt with a pitchfork to check its depth. ''The California poppy will absolutely love it,'' he announced. Then, raising his voice, he directed everyone: ''But let's not do any more digging. I was just curious. Patience!''
 Reynolds grew up gardening with his family in Devon and at boarding school in Exeter, where, even at age 8, he took over the shoddy plots of his less-enthusiastic classmates. After Oxford, he settled in the South London neighborhood of Elephant and Castle. He found a flat in a drab, concrete high-rise called Perronet House -- a building managed by the borough government. It was the first time he'd lived in a place without a garden or even window boxes. So he set his sights on the raised-brick flower beds out front, about 80 feet across. A few willful periwinkle plants poked out of the trash and construction scrap.
 In the fall of 2004, unsure if anyone would mind, Reynolds began yanking weeds from the beds in the middle of the night. He planted a few clippings from his mother's garden and started blogging his experiment. Gradually, he built the space into a lively garden: ''a quite ambitious'' take, he says, on the traditional herbaceous border style. (He has entered the Perronet House beds in the ''front garden'' category of a borough-sponsored competition intended for private homeowners.) Soon, he started venturing farther into the neighborhood to remake other orphaned parcels. ''I was doing it for myself,'' he says. ''I was doing it because I wanted to garden, and I was ashamed of the grottiness of the area I lived in. It was plain and simple selfish middle-class pride.''
 The following year, the British news media discovered Reynolds's blog. A burst of flattering coverage began. He had just been laid off from an advertising firm and now had the time, and the celebrity, to coordinate volunteers to create grander gardens in larger spaces. Over four nights in 2006, a total of 80 guerrillas converted a roughly 400-foot-long triangular median of unruly grass south of Westminster Bridge into what Reynolds now calls ''our flagship'': an expansive fit of euphorbia and helleborus, as well as small willow, cherry and dogwood trees, all vaulting from a blanket of lavender. Once a year, guerrillas harvest the lavender and sew it into little pillows, which are sold to support more gardening. When Reynolds took me by one afternoon, the deep-red tulips had just opened, and he took pictures fervently for his blog. He uses many red plants, he said, and tries to capture them for the blog with a red double-decker bus or red phone booth in the background. ''Red is very much London's color,'' he explained. 
 Reynolds still freelances in advertising and is compulsively fascinated by the way things are marketed. He is keenly aware of how politicized, how anti-establishment, plants are becoming -- even lawful ones. ''They're being venerated,'' he says, as ''a solution'' to many of society's problems. Plants offset carbon emissions. They can fuel our cars. Community gardens become places to sit with friends in cities where doing so has increasingly necessitated buying a cappuccino. Urban agriculture promotes food security or supplies fresh vegetables to poor neighborhoods lacking grocery stores. Recently, the architect Fritz Haeg has been campaigning to replace American front lawns with crops, calling his new book, ''Edible Estates,'' ''a radical intervention'' against our ''repressive streets of zombie lawn-lined monotony.''
 Yet aside from a few tomatoes and some Swiss chard, which he says ''tasted dirty,'' Reynolds has never grown any food. Nor is he too tied to gardening as an ecological act, a way of restoring nature's order; he gladly plants invasive species if they're aesthetically appropriate to the setting. Instead, he seems to focus on guerrilla gardening as a socially subversive phenomenon, breaking us out of the unconstructive role we've cast ourselves in as citizens. 
 ''There's this feeling that someone's going to be doing it for us,'' he told me. We respect public space by not degrading it: not littering, not vandalizing. But we rarely consider what we might contribute to it. Consequently, the common areas of our cities wind up belonging to none of us rather than to all of us equally. As Andy Brown, a guerrilla gardener in Toronto, puts it: ''If it makes sense to put a fresh coat of paint on the walls of your living room, it makes sense to put a fresh coat of flowers on your neighborhood, because they're both places you live in.''
 Reynolds accepts that cities can realistically spend only so much on horticulture. ''We're their solution to a lack of funding,'' he told me. More important, he argues, guerrillas simply do some jobs better than government. Guerrillas are fleeter. They're not bound up in safety regulations, forced to drag around ''Men at Work'' signs or to suffer through volunteer trainings or write grant proposals like legitimate volunteers. Several guerrillas told me they're particularly proud to be bringing more imaginative plant combinations to roadsides than the city does, more artistry. 
 ''I grew up singing in a cathedral where every little surface of all the medieval walls was carved in,'' Reynolds said. ''It looked like a place that was really special to people -- lived in and loved.'' His gardening is meant to communicate the same affectionate and collaborative investment in London. ''I'm not against the state,'' he told me. ''I'm not an anarchist. I accept society more or less as it is. But there are chinks, there are flaws, there are anomalies in it. There are things that get overlooked, and I think guerrilla gardening can be a solution to that. 
 ''It's sort of the geek in me that says, Oh, no, hang on a minute,'' he later added. ''Let's look at this again. Let's reassess this. This could be so much better with a bit of imagination.''
 Since he went public, Reynolds's run-ins with municipal authorities have been infrequent but strange. Last summer, after the London Borough of Southwark suddenly decided to resume its own upkeep of the Perronet House beds, encroaching on Reynolds's turf, Reynolds arranged to meet the borough's horticulturists to discuss the issue. ''They were all wearing dark sunglasses,'' he says, and refused his invitation to come up to his flat and talk over tea. At one point, he says, they threatened to tear up his entire garden and generally behaved like ''small-minded, stupid, paranoid, negative, aggressive idiots.'' 
 Eventually, Reynolds rallied the building's residents behind him and was given verbal permission to continue gardening outside Perronet House -- and there only. The encounter persuaded him that hiding his identity, as many guerrillas do, would be a mistake, feeding the assumption that he was doing something destructive. Being upfront about his intentions seems to defuse conflict with authorities, he says, if only because it so thoroughly confuses them. 
 The week after I left London, however, a troupe of guerrillas were suddenly confronted by more than a half-dozen police officers while refurbishing a traffic circle outside Reynolds's building. Reynolds was as forthcoming as ever (''I've put that flower bed in beneath those railings,'' he tells the police in a video of the incident, laying it all on the table, ''and we've got some nice forget-me-nots going there'') but was nevertheless threatened with arrest for ''criminal damage.'' The guerrillas retreated to his flat, where they spent an hour and a half with a bottle of red wine. Then, when the coast seemed clear, they began scampering out, two at a time, carrying purple primrose to finish the job. 
 Councillor David Noakes, who represents Reynolds's ward in the London Borough of Southwark, told me: ''Generally I'm supportive of what Richard's doing. He's providing an example of the kind of member of a community that we want.'' And yet, Noakes stressed, guerrillas put the council in a complicated position. Though the borough wants to ''accommodate'' guerrilla gardening, it must also protect the health and safety of the public and limit its own liability to lawsuits. ''I can understand that, to Richard, the council must sometimes appear unnecessarily bureaucratic and very conflicting in its views,'' he said. ''It's a very unusual issue for the council. Unfortunately, there aren't a lot of Richard Reynoldses.''
 Still, Reynolds's most frequent irritants and obstacles are more mundane. His plants are sometimes stolen. In winter, they are singed by salt used to de-ice roads. At St. George's Circus, in a traffic island he has cultivated for three years, Reynolds has been engaged in a long duel with jaywalkers who regularly cut through his garden. Initially, he blocked them with a laurel hedge. They barged through it. So earlier this year, guerrillas installed ''The Pebbly Concession to Suicidal Tramplers,'' a narrow path through the garden to channel and contain the intruders. Yet when Reynolds took me by St. George's Circus the day before the Hoxton dig, the place was a disaster. 
 The city was digging up water mains and had fenced off much of the island, blocking the Pebbly Concession. ''The path is completely pointless now,'' Reynolds whined. Jaywalkers had started to wear away a new trail, through some lavender and dangerously close to his azaleas. As we stood there, two kids in buzz cuts and hoodies came stamping through behind us. 
 ''You cannot do that, please!'' Reynolds suddenly yelped. ''Get off my flower bed! You've just destroyed all the plants!'' He was screaming now. ''Walk on the pavement!'' he said, adding an expletive.
 The kids didn't care. One swore back at him as he passed, and an elderly man with a walker approached from the same direction. ''Oh, now he's coming along with his walker,'' Reynolds moaned. ''What's he going to do?''
 Traffic swept around the circle. Reynolds paced and complained -- the perfectionist beset by imperfections, the guerrilla gardener versus the guerrilla pedestrians, each refusing to stay within the lines. Soon he found one of the road crew's striped barriers lying in his heather. He fixed the plank across the trail, leaning it against a cabbage palm: a blockade. He was back to being cheerful, impressed by his cleverness. He stepped back to look at it. Then he photographed it for his blog.
 What other malfunctions of the modern city could autonomous activists fix? How far can guerrilla urbanism go?
 In his book, Reynolds describes a group of London anarchists who engaged in ''guerrilla benching,'' installing their own wooden benches on sidewalks when a local government began removing benches from public space. In France, guerrilla repairmen built a clandestine workshop under the dome of the Pantheon and, over the next year, refurbished its clock. Recently, guerrilla knitters in New York and elsewhere have been wrapping traffic light poles in colorful, leg-warmer-like cozies.
 Still, Reynolds acknowledges that with gardening -- particularly the kind of persnickety ornamental gardens he's so passionate about -- he happens to have stumbled into a realm of guerrilla restoration that is almost perfectly unthreatening to everyone. People generally agree that, unlike squatters or graffiti, tulips and rosemary are beneficial appropriations of public space; they are pretty, particularly if they spring from a beer-sodden trench of weeds. In fact, a spokeswoman for the London Borough of Hackney, the borough in which the Hoxton roundabout is located, couldn't readily tell me whether what Reynolds and his troops did there is technically illegal. ''Gosh, I don't know,'' she said. ''Environmental vandalism would be illegal, but it's hard to argue that gardening is vandalism.''
 Even the owner of the neighboring pub who stormed out to have a word with Reynolds that night tried to stress, again and again, that he had absolutely no problem with guerrilla gardening; he's all for flowers. But the borough had been reprimanding him about the noisy crowds outside his bar, and he resented the gardeners for adding to the volume and endangering his business. Reynolds superciliously explained that they were actually helping his business -- ''We're gentrifying the area, making it a more desirable place to hang out!'' as he put it to me -- infuriating the barman even more. But before long, everyone was back to work, unsheathing the boxwood from its garbage bags. A car slowed through the intersection, and from the crowded back seat a man hollered: ''ARE YOU GUERRILLAS?'' -- enunciating each word as if he were shouting to natives from the bow of his galleon. When Patel and Reynolds called out ''Yes'' in unison, thumbs shot up around the car. 
 Soon packets of poppy seeds -- remainders of a Gardens Illustrated promotion donated by the magazine -- were being torn open and poured into a big red bucket. A young woman in a raincoat stopped to thank Reynolds for ''the difference you've made in London and in the landscape'' and to ask him if there was any chance he'd visit her neighborhood. ''It's really bad, really bad up there,'' she said, like a weary citizen in a Marvel comic book. ''My aim,'' he told her, ''is to encourage people to take the same approach that we have, and just get out and do it.'' 
 By 10:30, two and a half hours after the guerrillas descended on that scrappy shred of land, there was indisputably a garden there. A double row of ivy ran behind the fence and, behind it, flanked by clumps of daisies, boxwood enclosed the butterfly bush. Reynolds raked up. Then, when no one was looking,he unceremoniously shook out the bucket of poppy seeds around the edges. ''Done,'' he told Patel. ''It's done.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE LITTLE DIG: An unauthorized horticultural action (opposite and following pages) in London this May
Richard Reynolds, author of ''On Guerrilla Gardening.'' Despite the revolutionary trappings of his movement, Reynolds's aims are primarily aesthetic. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FINLAY MACKAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHART BY CATALOGTREE. SOURCE: 78 CITY MAYORS.)
GRAPH: Richest cities in 2005 by G.D.P. in billions of U.S. dollars
CHART: Cities with the highest population density. By comparison, L.A. is No. 90 on the list, with 7,068 people per square mile
 New York is No. 114, with 5,309. = 1,000 PEOPLE (CHART BY CATALOGTREE. SOURCE: CITY MAYORS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); HORTICULTURE (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



183 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3197 words

HEADLINE: Dreams and Desperation On Forsyth Street

BYLINE: By SAKI KNAFO. 
Mandy Ng, a former reporter for Sing Tao Daily, translated and contributed reporting.

 BODY:
IT began in 1998 with a routine act of bureaucracy, a decision by the city's Department of Transportation to put up a pair of red and white metal signs in the eastern section of Chinatown, on a desolate block in the shadow of the Manhattan Bridge.
 The signs, which bore the cryptic message ''Bus Layover Area -- 6 a.m.-midnight,'' in effect allowed private interstate buses to wait briefly by the curb, seven days a week.
 By the end of the year, two or three cut-rate Chinatown-to-Chinatown buses had adopted the strip as their base of operations, stopping there to drop off and collect passengers before lighting out for Washington, Boston and points beyond. 
 As the popularity of the buses increased, their numbers multiplied, and by 2002 three companies were wrangling over the little block, Forsyth Street between East Broadway and Division Street. One company owner hired several women to sell tickets on the sidewalk, and his competitors followed suit. Quarrels between rival ticket sellers became commonplace. 
 Each day, hundreds of people descended on the strip. To take advantage of the surge in foot traffic, local business owners eventually began selling Asian snacks like sweet olives and shrimp crackers, along with less exotic items like Pringles for the increasingly prevalent non-Chinese traveler. In closet-size booths around the corner, peddlers traded in cheap cigarettes, smuggled aboard the buses from out of state, while on the sidewalk, bored-looking men handed out business cards imprinted with come-ons aimed specifically at the homesick, like ''Innocent lady, sweet home, comfortable service.''
 In just a few years, a vibrant, competitive and largely self-contained economy had materialized around the bus stop, or bah-see zhan, an economy that employed at least 200 people, all of them bound to one another in a complicated network of alliances, dependencies and feuds.
 The bus stop represented different things to different populations. To some riders, like college students, it was simply a place to begin a cheap journey to Philadelphia, Washington or other points along the Eastern seaboard. To many Chinese immigrants, including the growing numbers who traveled to jobs outside the city, the bus stop was essentially the geographic center of America.
 And for the immigrants who made up the bah-see zhan economy, the bus stop was something else yet, a bubbling hotpot of ambition, creativity and bickering -- New York boiled down to its essential elements. 
 Last March, in an effort to impose order on the often fractious and sometimes violent scene, officers from the Fifth Precinct, which covers Chinatown, floated the most recent in a string of proposals to banish the buses from the heart of the neighborhood. 
 Over the next few months, as the local community board held a series of public hearings on the matter, the neighborhood watched, riveted. The debate seemed to touch on every one of Chinatown's perennial problems: crime, pollution, crowding, and above all, economic desperation.
 In July, at a public meeting attended by some 200 Chinatown residents, the community board voted to delay its response to the proposal, and no further action has been taken.
 Yet many on the strip still fear that the bus stop will be dismantled, and if that happens, what the city will have lost is a community that, in the span of a single block, manages to capture the immigrant experience in both its most troubling and its most inspiring aspects.
 ''This is an example of immigrant entrepreneurship that has far transcended the immigrant community,'' said City Councilman John Liu, a leading figure in local Chinese-American politics. ''But as with all things in New York, growth has to be recognized and managed; otherwise we're left with another Wild West situation.''
 In the meantime, the bus owners and the ticket sellers and the shopkeepers and the building managers continue to struggle, fight, fail, prosper, and strive.
 The Bus Owner
 The bus stop sits opposite a two-story, full-block shopping center above which looms the clanging, rattling overpass of the Manhattan Bridge. On the block facing the bus stop are a candy store, a Western Union office, a MoneyGram counter and a hair salon, along with two empty storefronts, closed because of rising rents.
 Zheng Shui Ming, a perpetually tanned 53-year-old, can often be found stationed in front of the Western Union office, carefully watching the street while speaking into a walkie-talkie. His wife and several other women sit nearby on plastic stools, hawking tickets and Chinese newspapers to passers-by.
 Mr. Zheng commands a 12-bus fleet whose routes extend to Richmond, Va. From his post on the block, he serves as a dispatcher, summoning buses to the strip as spaces become available. 
 Running a low-budget bus company is a complicated undertaking that involves troubleshooting mechanical problems, settling legal disputes and overseeing a staff of pugnacious ticket sellers, all on a tiny budget. When Mr. Zheng started the business, in 2002, he was the only driver, and sometimes worked 14 hours at a stretch. 
 ''Of course I encountered a lot of dangerous moments,'' he said recently through an interpreter. ''My eyes were open, but sometimes my brain was asleep.''
 The journey that brought Mr. Zheng to Forsyth Street from Fujian Province in southern China began in 1991 on a fishing boat. The boat broke down in what he called ''the sea of nowhere,'' and the passengers were near death from starvation when they were rescued by another boat. Eventually they made their way to Guatemala. 
 On his arrival in New York the following spring, Mr. Zheng moved into a one-bedroom apartment on East Broadway that was already occupied by 10 other men. Although he had few marketable skills, he did have one very American ability: He knew how to drive. 
 He got a job driving a tour bus for a Chinese-run company based in Boston, and over the next few years socked away enough money to buy a secondhand minibus from a friend in Queens. His company, Eastern Travel and Tour, quickly began attracting cooks and dishwashers with jobs in Chinese restaurants in other states, along with a growing contingent of college students and other non-Chinese passengers. Buying a full-size coach on the Internet, Mr. Zheng offered a second driver a cut of the revenues. In a particularly triumphant moment, he hired as a consultant a man who held an M.B.A. from Indiana State University. Mr. Zheng had left school after the sixth grade.
 But by the time Mr. Zheng started the company, as many as a dozen similar firms, many of them unregistered, were operating in Chinatown. The result was a price war in which the cost of a round-trip ticket between New York and Boston dropped to as low as $15 from $40.
 In a place as hard-pressed as the eastern section of Chinatown, where the neighborhood's new immigrants are concentrated, it was perhaps inevitable that the competition would turn violent. One day in the spring of 2002, just a few months after establishing his company, Mr. Zheng came to work to find a line of police cars waiting in the street. He was arrested and detained for nearly 24 hours in the station house on Elizabeth Street. As it turned out, a rival bus company operator named Chen De Jian had driven one of Mr. Zheng's vehicles into a man affiliated with a third bus company, fracturing his pelvis. Before the case could be resolved, Mr. Chen turned up dead on Market Street with three bullet wounds in his back. His death was among a spate of violent confrontations that included a fatal stabbing. 
 The violence reflected not only increasing competition but also worsening poverty. Despite its bustling commerce and the buzz of tourism, Chinatown has always been beset with economic problems, and in recent years those problems have intensified. As rents have shot up across the city, especially in Lower Manhattan, poor immigrants, mainly from the rural precincts of Fujian, have streamed into the neighborhood, many of them owing tens of thousands of dollars to the smugglers who brought them here. 
 Census data for Community Board 3, which covers the bulk of Chinatown and the increasingly affluent Lower East Side, shows that the percentage of Chinese residents defined by the federal government as poor or near poor rose to 69 from 64 between 2000 and 2006, even as the percentage of non-Chinese residents in those categories dropped to 46 from 57. 
 And even as reports of violence have subsided, the competition remains fierce. Last summer, a photograph appeared in Sing Tao Daily, a Chinese newspaper, showing a man sprawled on the street in front of a bus. At first glance, it looks as if he has been hit by the bus, but he isn't bleeding. Farther down the street is a woman; she, too, is lying on the pavement, and she is holding a packet of bus tickets. The man and the woman, employees of rival bus companies, were each feigning injury, apparently in an attempt to block the other's buses from pulling out of the stop.
 The Ticket Seller
 One reason competition among bus companies is so fierce is that the ticket sellers usually work on commission. They generally earn a dollar for each ticket sold. This can amount to as little as $300 a week.
 Lin Ah-jiao, a pixielike 43-year-old from Fujian, sells tickets for a company called New Today's Bus. She works 13 out of every 14 days, often from 10 in the morning until 11 at night. ''Chinese people work very hard,'' she said proudly. ''Every day, working.''
 When on duty, she and her fellow ticket sellers usually eat their meals standing up on the sidewalk. They work in the pouring rain, stifling heat and freezing cold. One frigid night in December, Ms. Lin could be found standing watch in the middle of the intersection of Forsyth Street and East Broadway, bundled up in a puffy black ski jacket over another jacket, two sweatshirts and two pairs of long underwear. Every time she caught sight of a non-Asian person or anyone carrying a backpack or a suitcase, she dashed over and shouted, ''Where you going?'' 
 If bus company owners like Mr. Zheng stand atop the bah-see zhan food chain, ticket sellers like Ms. Lin dwell at the bottom. Along with her husband and daughter, she lives with four other people in a two-bedroom apartment on Madison Street. The space has been converted into a four-bedroom apartment; a plywood wall separates what must once have been a living room into two sleeping quarters. 
 Her family's bedroom is dominated by a bunk bed that her husband built from scraps of wood. She and her husband share the bottom bunk; their daughter, 21, sleeps on top. Because there are no closets, the space beneath the bottom bunk is packed tight with bunches of clothes, and bulky plastic shopping bags hang from nails on the wall. 
 In the kitchen, a tight passageway with grease-spattered walls, a gold-and-red paper decoration bears the saying, ''A good family brings in money.'' Scrawled in pencil on the same wall are hundreds of tiny Chinese characters. 
 ''My uncle likes to write poetry when he gets drunk,'' Ms. Lin explained one day through an interpreter. Most of the poems, she said, were about drunkenness, though at least one of them was not. She read a few lines: ''In the morning I go to the restaurant to work. I come back to my bed in the evening. My sweet dream has come true: I have turned into a ghost.'' 
 The Dry Cleaner
 Ms. Lin and Mr. Zheng were among the scores of Chinatown residents who gathered in July at the public meeting focusing on the fate of the bus stop. Several members of the audience delivered short speeches urging that the bah-see zhan be preserved, among them a fine-boned woman in her 40s, dressed in a red blouse and a black and white polka-dot skirt. ''I represent the small business owners of 88 East Broadway,'' she said in Cantonese, a piece of paper clutched in her trembling hands.
 The woman's name was Sue Chen, and she was referring to the shopping center that sits opposite the bus stop. Among the dozens of businesses crammed inside the building are a soot-blackened jewelry workshop, a row of drab employment centers, several ginseng stores, including one that doubles as a tailor, and the tiny booth of a fortuneteller who, according to local legend, keeps the ghost of a little boy in a jar under his desk.
 The building's address is a most fortuitous one. In Chinese numerology, 88 means ''double prosperity,'' a poignant notion when one considers how few of the businesses in the shopping center could be described as prosperous.
 For the past decade, Ms. Chen had run a dry-cleaning business in a 90-square-foot storefront on the Forsyth Street side of the mall. The L-shaped shop, with its cardboard-covered floor, hardly represented a vision of success, but were it not for the buses, the shop might not have survived at all. 
 As Ms. Chen explained in her speech at the meeting, the economic repercussions in Chinatown from the attack of Sept. 11 had been severe. According to the Asian American Federation of New York, a nonprofit public-policy group, in the three months after the attack, more than 40 garment factories closed and a quarter of the neighborhood's work force was laid off.
 Luckily for Ms. Chen, it was just at this point that the bus business was beginning to prosper.
 Seeing a chance to scrounge a few crumbs of prosperity for herself, she bought a refrigerator from a restaurant supply shop and stocked it with soft drinks, including olive juice, a favorite among Fujianese bus passengers. She also began renting a tiny fraction of the store to an enterprising phone-card vendor who also worked as a ticket seller for a bus company. 
 But as the competition heated up, Ms. Chen began hearing tales of sabotage -- stabbed tires, sugar poured into gas tanks. And by the spring of 2002 the bus wars were hurting her directly. Once, someone slashed her awning. Another time, somebody jammed gum into the keyhole, forcing her to replace the lock. 
 ''In my heart, I knew who it was,'' Ms. Chen said in Cantonese. Since 1998, she had been selling tickets for Chen De Jian, the bus operator who was later killed, and she believed that the other bus owners resented this arrangement. But when the police asked her to name names, she kept quiet. ''I was very, very scared,'' she recalled. 
 The Businessman
 Violent feuds were nothing new on East Broadway. Only a quarter of a century ago, the property on which 88 East Broadway now stands was a vacant lot surrounded by a chain-link fence. Gangs used the site as a battleground. Other people used it as a dump. It is said that when passers-by threw cigarettes over the fence, flames shot up from the festering piles of rubbish.
 Improbably, a group of local investors, led by a restaurant owner named Ming Chan, saw promise in the site. In the 1980s, after winning a bid to lease the land from the city, they built a two-story beige brick structure. On the second floor was an American-style shopping arcade with mirrored columns and an escalator. A food court trimmed with greenery was planned for the basement.
 The food court was never built. In 1987, just as the project was nearing completion, the stock market collapsed. Lacking tenants, Mr. Chan turned the second-floor arcade into an enormous dim sum restaurant.
 Today, the building is managed by Mr. Chan's son, Terry, a cordial, U.C.L.A.-educated man in his 40s. While growing up in Chinatown, Terry Chan heard countless stories about his father's early struggles as a barber in a basement shop on the Bowery. In the summer of 2006, when the bus companies were first threatened with expulsion, he saw an opportunity to expand on his father's hard-earned achievements. 
 His plan was to convert the building into a bona fide transportation hub, a modern, well-organized rival to the Port Authority Bus Terminal, complete with ticket windows, an L.E.D. schedule screen and a food court like the one his father had imagined, perhaps even a Starbucks. It seemed like the perfect idea: The bus owners would benefit, as would the police and any shopkeepers who could afford to stay.
 But one person would not benefit: Sue Chen, the dry cleaner. On Sept. 18, 2007, several weeks after her performance at the community board meeting, Terry Chan paid a visit to her little shop. What followed, according to both of their versions of events, was complicated.
 Mr. Chan informed Ms. Chen that she owed him tens of thousands of dollars in unpaid rent, property taxes and management fees. If she couldn't come up with the money at once, he said, she would have to accept a rent increase of $1,000 a month. Ms. Chen, who had no lease, said she couldn't afford that. 
 The exact details of the dispute are unclear. Mr. Chan says that Ms. Chen knew she had to pay a higher rent but repeatedly declined to sign a lease. Ms. Chen says she was never offered a lease.
 In any case, Ms. Chen was distraught. By her account, she sought advice from a lawyer at a local fraternal association. As she told her story, a young man who she says she assumed was the lawyer's assistant scribbled on a notepad. The next day, an article about her troubles appeared in The World Journal, a widely read local Chinese-language newspaper. The day after that, Ms. Chen received a notice of eviction. When she approached Mr. Chan, he reprimanded her for going to the press.
 As it turned out, Mr. Chan had ambitious plans for Ms. Chen's shop. Over the winter, he and Mr. Zheng, the bus owner, along with several of Mr. Zheng's competitors, began making arrangements to replace the store with a row of ticket windows. The renovations began last month. 
 Ms. Chen's last day at the shop was April 7. As she pulled down the shutters, the time was just 7:15 p.m. She made a mental note of this detail. For a decade, she had worked every day of the year, excluding the first day of the Chinese spring festival, from 9:30 a.m. until at least 8:30 p.m.
 The next evening, she and her family left for a vacation in Las Vegas. A few weeks later, over lunch in a local dim sum restaurant, Ms. Chen insisted that she wasn't worried about her future. Her husband earned a steady wage at a wonton factory in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, she said, and she had some savings. No matter what happened, she added, her life here would always be better than the one she had left in China 14 years earlier.
 Still, she can't afford health insurance. And two weeks after she lost the store, her son joined the Navy, partly because she was no longer able to support him while he looked for work.
 She was also grappling with something she could never have foreseen when she arrived in New York: how to fill the hours of free time that suddenly stretched before her.
 ''You go every day,'' she said of working at the store, ''and watch people walk around outside, and you listen to the noise of the train every two minutes and you write uncountable receipts.''
 Suddenly, Ms. Chen was crying. Careful not to spoil her makeup, she unfolded a napkin and pressed it softly against her cheek. ''It isn't about money,'' she said. ''My life is there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The dramas that play out on a single block in the shadow of the Manhattan Bridge capture the immigrant experience in both its most troubling and its most inspiring aspects. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CY1)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS W. HO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS W. HO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CY 8)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS W. HO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CY 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SMUGGLING (74%); SNACK FOODS (71%); TICKET SALES (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



184 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: When You Weren't Looking, They Were Working

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
MOST business journalism is about investments and the people who make them, usually on a large scale. Or else it is about the big dogs who run the mighty earldoms of American business and the agencies that regulate them. This is fair enough. As Calvin Coolidge said, ''The business of America is business.'' 
 We all want to read about money and how it's made and lost. But for young people who might have no idea of what business involves, or even what work beyond flipping burgers or selling DVDs might mean, here is a little primer on what it is and why it means something as Father's Day approaches. 
 A few days ago, I came across a draft of a memoir my father was working on before he entered immortality in 1999. After reading it carefully, I realized that I knew almost everything in it except for one huge thing: how hard his work -- his ''business,'' as one might say, for it surely kept him ''busy'' -- had been for a number of years in middle age.
 To me, as a child and as a teenager, in Silver Spring, Md., he simply got up in the morning, packed his briefcase and went to a fine office at Connecticut Avenue and K Street in Washington -- or, if he had business in New York, he packed his suitcase and went to the train after work. When he came home, he had stories about the elegant restaurants he had tried near his office, maybe Duke Zeibert's or Harvey's, or, if he had gone to New York, about his room at the St. Regis at 55th Street and Fifth Avenue and how outrageous it was ($30 a night), and how his sleeper car on the train had not really allowed him much sleep.
 He never, and I mean never, talked about making money, and he always seemed to have enough of it for a middle-class or maybe upper-middle-class lifestyle. So, frankly, I just assumed that he was having a good time down at his office and was secure and happy in his work.
 His memoir told a different tale. There were arguments and power struggles at the Committee for Economic Development, where he was research director. (It was and is an organization of high-ranking business people who put out papers on social and economic issues. My father, for about 20 years starting in the mid-1940s, was the author of many of these papers.) Yes, my father was able to socialize with the heads of the major corporations in America and live on an expense account the way they did, but it was always clear who was the boss. Yes, he got to fly first class, but it was always a struggle to be shown some respect by certain of his colleagues and he often considered quitting.
 He also wondered, if he quit, what he would do next and how he would pay the bills, and he did not want his children to have to worry about money, as he did when he was a child of the Great Depression.
 I think of this as I shlep through the airport security line with my heavy bags (Willy Loman style), as crazy people sit in front of me on the plane, trying to break my nose by throwing their seatbacks onto me, and as I wake up early to travel to the next destination. Then, as I look at all the other middle-aged (and sometimes older) road warriors in the security line, on the plane or checking into the hotel, I think of our children in school. 
 I picture our kids bravely taking moral stands on global warming and the polar bears, refusing to ''sell out,'' get a job or learn anything useful. I think of what I could write to them about their parents' work. I would start with a short phrase from Hart Crane, the genius poet.
 ''O, brilliant kids, I was a fool just like you. I was in my mid-40s before I properly thanked my father for his decades of hard work -- paying for me to laze around in the cars he bought me, to get drunk in the frat house whose dues he paid, to spend the afternoons with my girlfriends looking at trees and rivers while Pop worked and got so anxious that he took up smoking three packs of Kents a day. 
 ''O, brilliant kids, you get to put on the garments of the morally righteous and upstanding while your parents work -- because mothers work now and always have worked -- and your parents must say, 'Yes, sir,' or 'No, sir,' to those who hire them. O, golden children, you get to talk about how you'll never 'sell out,' and meanwhile your parents stay up late in torment, thinking of how they can pay your tuition. Because, brilliant kids, work (business) involves exhaustion and eating humble pie and going on even when you think you can't. And you are the beneficiaries of it in your gilded youth.
 ''Be smarter than Ben Stein ever was. Be a better person than I ever was. Right now, today, thank your parents for working to support you. Don't act as if it's the divine right of students. Get right up in their faces and say, 'Thank you for what you do so I can live like this.' Say something. Say it, so that when they're at O'Hare or Dallas-Fort Worth and they've just learned that their flight is canceled and they'll have to stay overnight at the airport, they will know you appreciate them. 
 ''Get it in your heads that if you throw away your moral duties to your parents, you are thieves. You were born on third base and your parents put you there, and you think you hit a triple. It's not true. It's time to give back.
 '' 'Attention must be paid,' as Arthur Miller said. So start now, and make it a habit to be grateful to your parents. Say you're grateful and mean it. Do it now, however young or old you are. Do it on Father's Day, Mother's Day, every day.'' 
 How I wish I had done more of it. Now it's too late -- but it's never too early. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (73%); RESTAURANTS (70%); TRAINS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



185 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: To the G.O.P., a Democratic Achilles' Heel

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
 REPUBLICANS in Connecticut's General Assembly, tired of being ignored as the minority party, believe they can tap into voter dissatisfaction to really stir things up at next week's special legislative session.
 Democrats want Wednesday's session to be limited to passing an extension of a real estate conveyance tax, which home buyers pay to a municipality when a property is bought within its borders.
 But Republican lawmakers see the session as a perfect election-year opportunity to renew their attack on what they call the Democrats' ''do-nothing'' approach to managing a budget crisis. 
 Connecticut cities and towns receive about $40 million a year from the conveyance tax surcharge, which is due to expire on June 30 unless the legislature takes action. The extension of the tax got lost in the last-minute scramble at the close of the legislature's regular 2008 session last month.
 Municipal leaders across the state are warning that the loss of those funds would force already hard-pressed cities and towns into layoffs, larger deficits or new taxes.
 Meanwhile, Connecticut's real estate brokers have begun an all-out lobbying effort to block the extension, a campaign that includes costly television advertisements. They argue the middle of a housing crisis is no time to be forcing home buyers to pay hundreds of dollars more in special conveyance taxes.
 Fears about the slumping economy and a state deficit that is expected to exceed $67 million by the start of the next fiscal year on July 1 persuaded Democratic leaders and Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican, to make no revisions in the two-year budget passed in 2007.
 The unchanged $18.4 billion budget plan that takes effect at the end of this month calls for a 4 percent increase in state spending. ''We didn't raise taxes, so we're pretty proud of what we've done,'' said House Speaker James A. Amann of Milford, a Democrat.
 For years, the strength of the Democratic majorities in the legislature has left Republican lawmakers on the outside of major budget decisions in Hartford. Democrats simply negotiated their deals with whatever Republican governor happened to be in power. Democrats now hold a 107-to-44 super majority in the House and a 23-to-13 margin in the Senate.
 Republican leaders are convinced that they have found a way, despite the odds, to get into the game by tuning into voters' disdain for tax increases.
 ''We're excited about the special session,'' said Themis Klarides of Derby, the deputy House Republican leader. Last year, when Mrs. Rell and Democrats were ready to accept unpopular state income tax increases, Republicans offered a no-new-taxes plan they claim forced the debate in a very different direction.
 This year, Republican legislators proposed an alternative to the Democratic plan: They want to cut the state work force through early retirement incentives and offer a new tax amnesty. They say their plan would provide needed money for nursing homes and nonprofit social service agencies, and enable a cut in the real estate conveyance tax, which has few fans in the state.
 The conveyance tax was increased in 2003 in the middle of another budget crisis. The state continued to get its 0.5 percent tax on the sale price of a home, but the municipal share was increased to 0.25 percent from 0.11 percent. Under the plan the Republicans are pushing, municipalities would keep their higher percentage, but the state's portion would be shaved to 0.35 percent.
 ''Democrats are deathly afraid of our plan because they know many of their members want to vote for it,'' said Lawrence F. Cafero Jr. of Norwalk, the House Republican leader.
 ''We truly believe that's what the people of the state want,'' said Mr. Klarides. ''That's why we feel we're in a very good political position.''
 Democratic leaders maintain they aren't worried and have no plans to allow the Republicans to reopen the whole budget debate Wednesday. ''We're prepared for that and we'll rule them out of order if they try,'' Mr. Amann said.
 Mrs. Rell says she's ready to stick with the existing budget and allow Democrats to extend the conveyance tax surcharge.
 The Senate majority leader, Martin M. Looney of New Haven, scoffed at Republican claims of political advantage.
 ''The minority has the freedom to take potshots at whatever they want because they don't have the responsibility of governing,'' he said.
 Mr. Looney said the Republican plan is based on an early retirement program similar to one tried five years ago during a similar budget crunch. That earlier experiment, Mr. Looney said, resulted in the loss of thousands of important state workers who later had to be replaced. He said the retirement of hundreds of state transportation engineers was partly responsible for the highway construction scandals of recent years.
 But Republicans figure they can't really lose.
 If by some miracle the Democrats accept their plan, Republican lawmakers will claim victory. If the Democrats refuse to even debate it, Republicans will be playing their ''do-nothing Democrats'' card all the way to the polls in November.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lawrence F. Cafero Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB CHILD/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 James A. Amann (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB CHILD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LOBBYING (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (51%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%); INCOME TAX (50%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



186 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; QUESTIONS FOR ENRIQUE PEnALOSA; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Man With A Plan

BYLINE: Interview by DEBORAH SOLOMON

 BODY:
Q: As a former mayor of Bogota, Colombia, who won wide praise for making the city a model of enlightened planning, you have lately been hired by officials intent on building world-class cities, especially in Asia and the developing world. What is the first thing you tell them? In developing-world cities, the majority of people don't have cars, so I will say, when you construct a good sidewalk, you are constructing democracy. A sidewalk is a symbol of equality.
 I wouldn't think that sidewalks are a top priority in developing countries. The last priority. Because the priority is to make highways and roads. We are designing cities for cars, cars, cars, cars, cars. Not for people. Cars are a very recent invention. The 20th century was a horrible detour in the evolution of the human habitat. We were building much more for cars' mobility than children's happiness. 
 Even in countries where most people can't afford to own cars? The upper-income people in developing countries never walk. They see the city as a threatening space, and they can go for months without walking one block. 
 Isn't that true here in the United States as well? Not in Manhattan, but there are many suburbs where there are no sidewalks, which is a very bad sign of a lack of respect for human dignity. People don't even question it. It's the same as it was in pre-revolutionary France. People thought society was normal, just as today people think it is normal that the Long Island Sound waterfront should be private.
 Are you comparing people with homes overlooking the Long Island Sound to corrupt French aristocrats? If democracy is to prevail, public good must prevail over private interests. The question is: would the majority of people be happier with a public waterfront on the Long Island Sound or not? All children should have access to waterfronts without being members of a country club. 
 Do most of the six billion people in the world live in cities or in the country? At this very instant, a little bit more in the country. We are in the process of becoming more urban. In the developing world, more than half the cities, especially in Asia and Africa, are yet to be created.
 What are the best-designed cities in the world? The best-designed cities are in northern Europe, like the Dutch and Danish cities. 
 As mayor of Bogota, you reclaimed the sidewalks for pedestrians by banning sidewalk parking, your most famous achievement. The most famous and the most controversial. But we started by building bicycle paths, and now 5 percent of the population, more than 350,000 people, go to work by bicycle. 
 Why do you think you lost your most recent bid for mayor last year? I had some huge fights when I was mayor. I was almost impeached for getting the cars off the sidewalk. 
 Do you own a car? Yes, an S.U.V. with armor.
 You mean it's bulletproof? Yes. We had some problems.
 People shot at you? No, they never shot at me, but you never know. Any politician in Colombia is at risk. 
 Where were you educated? I went to Duke. I actually majored in economics and history.
 You were probably the only socialist at Duke. I eventually realized, of course, that socialism was a failure as an economic system. Yet equality is not dead. Socialism is dead, but equality as a goal is not dead.
 Do you see yourself as a city planner or a politician? At heart what I really am is a Colombian politician, but a bad one because I lose elections. 
 INTERVIEW CONDUCTED, CONDENSED AND EDITED BY DEBORAH SOLOMON

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MACKENZIE STROH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); MAYORS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (67%); INTERVIEWS (62%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ASIA (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); DENMARK (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



187 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; BUDGETS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Towns Scrambling to Make Ends Meet

BYLINE: By JAN ELLEN SPIEGEL

 BODY:
WHEN state legislators ended their session in early May, municipal leaders who had been hoping for extra money from Hartford to cover their rising costs this year learned that there would be no help. Legislators, facing a $67 million deficit by July 1, decided they could not afford to make any additions to the two-year budget they approved last year, which increased aid to cities and towns by $131.5 million to $2.88 billion.
 Even so, with higher fuel costs and other prices escalating, officials in many of the state's 169 cities and towns were left scrambling to find other ways to make budget ends meet by the start of the new fiscal year July 1. From Bridgeport to Windsor, municipalities are considering a variety of measures, from higher, though unpopular, property taxes and user fees, to installing timers on streetlights or ending loose leaf pickups.
 ''I don't think any town in Connecticut isn't feeling some pinch,'' said Raymond G. Baldwin Jr., first selectman of Trumbull. 
 When the legislative session began in February, the state comptroller, Nancy S. Wyman, was predicting a $281.2 million surplus, which many municipal leaders hoped would mean more funds. But three months later, only days before the session ended, Ms. Wyman's revised numbers showed the state would end up with a deficit that keeps inching upwards. For next year the governor's budget office already is predicting a $150 million deficit.
 The fallout has been painful for municipalities used to upward tweaks in the second year of the biennial budget. Other than state aid, municipalities are only allowed to use property taxes and user fees to raise revenues.
 In many of the more than 70 communities that allow budget referendums, voters -- already stressed by the declining economy -- have been refusing budget increases in the last few weeks if they mean higher property taxes. In Windsor, the vote was nearly two-to-one against the budget with a small tax increase.
 ''People felt they can't always say no to Exxon or a major utility, but they do have a clear voice to say 'no' at the local level,'' said Peter P. Souza, town manager. Last week, voters approved another budget that had no increase.
 In East Haddam, First Selectman Mark Walter actually urged voters to turn down his proposed budget, because the economy had deteriorated so badly in the two months from the time it was proposed and the vote. Both communities, along with many others, are left to cut services and in some cases lay off workers.
 Trumbull's Mr. Baldwin, a Democrat, faulted the Republican governor and Democratic legislature for doing ''absolutely nothing to stimulate the economy in Connecticut in any appreciable way to help cities and towns.''
 He has avoided making layoffs, but fees for school sports will increase, travel for anything other than essential training will be cut, as will road paving, and loose-leaf pickups will end. Mr. Baldwin already bid out the town's electricity contract to get cheaper rates, and the town has some alternative-fuel vehicles. The town is considering buying its own computer server to reduce the cost of e-mail.
 ''Creativity borne out of necessity,'' Mr. Baldwin said.
 But some municipalities are running out of ideas.
 ''When you only have one way by law to raise your money, that limits your options,'' said Mayor Scott Slifka of West Hartford. ''Mayors across the state are dying to express their creativity but there's no way to do that.''
 The West Hartford budget, with a 6.9 percent spending increase, was forced to a vote for the second year in a row by a petition circulated by the West Hartford Taxpayers Association, which opposed the increase. The vote is scheduled for later this month.
 Last year the vote resulted in no spending increase, though taxes rose because of revaluation, and 17 city jobs were cut. Mr. Slifka said the city had to make up for that and deal with rising costs. ''Every day gas prices go up, the chances of the budget passing goes down,'' he said.
 The taxpayers association suggested reductions like installing timers on streetlights, outsourcing school department printing and consolidating personal assistants for school officials.
 ''I work with 18 people and we have one person to work with us, that's how it goes in the real world,'' said the association president, Chris Torino, whose own taxes would go up about $400. ''I don't care if it only saves $50,000. That's $50,000 more saved.''
 In the state's biggest cities, cutting the budget has been a tortured process of negotiations and chipping away. Union contracts often make it difficult to alter the biggest cost: personnel. 
 In Bridgeport, Bill Finch, a first-term mayor and a Democrat, discovered a $16 million deficit left by his predecessorthat compounds the current economic difficulties. 
 ''We really sharpened the pencils,'' Mr. Finch said. ''When you're squeezed you become more efficient. When you're squeezed you go back to basics -- police, fire and schools.''
 But that has meant lost jobs, cuts to libraries and finding a more cost effective way to run school-based health clinics, a popular service for the city's large low-income community. Mr. Finch, a former state senator who is among those who would like to see an alternative to the property tax system, is trying out a program called CitiStat, which other cities are using to track cost effectiveness.
 After the legislative session, New Haven found itself nearly $12 million short for a $466 million budget. Aldermen, citizens and business people wrangled over cuts for police substations, senior centers, Tweed Airport and homeless shelters.
 ''To think the homeless are just going to disappear just because the money gets taken out of the budget is ludicrous,'' said Andrea Jackson-Brooks, a member of the Board of Aldermen's finance committee.
 Jeffrey Kerekes, 35, a New Haven psychotherapist who helped found New Haven Citizens Action Network more than a year ago, said his group compiled 20 pages of budget savings that included using security personnel instead of more highly paid police officers to handle traffic duties and take minor police reports. And he suggested getting rid of the $350,000 New Haven trolley. ''It's nice and quaint and it's free -- but no one rides it,'' he said. 
 Mayor John DeStefano Jr., a Democrat, said even with cuts and union concessions, property taxes are likely to go up an average 10 percent, mainly because of revaluation. He said the city has opted for user fees for services like waste-water treatment and solid waste, but there are so many universities and hospitals that about half the city's property is tax-exempt.
 ''You're really left with little ability to raise revenue and you're left with most of the requirements to provide services.'' Mr. DeStefano said. ''And what it means for everybody who's left paying taxes, you pay higher taxes.''
 Windham voters turned down a 4 percent budget increase, so First Selectwoman Jean de Smet, a Green Party member, invited taxpayers to a meeting last month to offer suggestions.
 ''Overwhelmingly people are saying they cannot afford a budget increase of any type,'' Ms. de Smet said. ''Food and medicine, fuel bills, basics of life. They seem to be at a point where people will lose their houses over taxes.''
 Mayor Dannel P. Malloy said Stamford took advantage of a commercial real estate boom to do a revaluation and reap tax benefits. ''We were a little lucky and a little smart,'' he said. Still, with a decrease in state aid, taxes did go up, though commercial properties absorbed the brunt. 
 In Weston, First Selectman Woody Bliss, a Republican, said he has generally been able to keep property tax increases below 3 percent by constantly updating a 10-year spending and revenue plan. ''Very little right now had to be adjusted,'' he said. ''Adjustments for this we made 12 years ago. Right now we're working on problems in 2010-2011.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FISCAL ADJUSTMENTS: Above, in Redding, Leon Carvallis, foreground left, reads the result of a second budget vote that passed. Left, Alderwoman Andrea Jackson-Brooks of New Haven talks about the city's budget. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. CT6)
 BALLOTS: In Redding, residents go to vote on the new town budget. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. CT1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); APPROVALS (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); REFERENDUMS (63%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (62%); LAYOFFS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



188 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: A Not Very Private Feud Over Terrorism

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO and ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
-- A bitter personal struggle between two powerful figures in the world of terrorism has broken out, forcing their followers to choose sides. This battle is not being fought in the rugged no man's land on the Pakistan-Afghan border. It is a contest reverberating inside the Beltway between two of America's leading theorists on terrorism and how to fight it, two men who hold opposing views on the very nature of the threat.
 On one side is Bruce Hoffman, a cerebral 53-year-old Georgetown University historian and author of the highly respected 1998 book ''Inside Terrorism.'' He argues that Al Qaeda is alive, well, resurgent and more dangerous than it has been in several years. In his corner, he said, is a battalion of mainstream academics and a National Intelligence Estimate issued last summer warning that Al Qaeda had reconstituted in Pakistan. 
 On the other side is Marc Sageman, an iconoclastic 55-year-old Polish-born psychiatrist, sociologist, former C.I.A. case officer and scholar-in-residence with the New York Police Department. His new book, ''Leaderless Jihad,'' argues that the main threat no longer comes from the organization called Al Qaeda, but from the bottom up -- from radicalized individuals and groups who meet and plot in their neighborhoods and on the Internet. In his camp, he said, are agents and analysts in highly classified positions at the Central Intelligence Agency and Federal Bureau of Investigation.
 If Dr. Hoffman gets inside organizations -- focusing on command structures -- Dr. Sageman gets inside heads, analyzing the terrorist mind-set. But this is more important than just a battle of ideas. It is the latest twist in the contest for influence and resources in Washington that has been a central feature of the struggle against terrorism since Sept. 11, 2001. 
 Officials from the White House to the C.I.A. acknowledge the importance of the debate of the two men as the government assesses the nature of the threat. Looking forward, it is certain to be used to win bureaucratic turf wars over what programs will be emphasized in the next administration. 
 If there is no looming main Qaeda threat -- just ''bunches of guys,'' as Dr. Sageman calls them -- then it would be easier for a new president to think he could save money or redirect efforts within the huge counterterrorism machine, which costs the United States billions of dollars and has created armies of independent security consultants and counterterrorism experts in the last seven years. 
 Preventing attacks planned by small bands of zealots in the garages and basements just off Main Street or the alleys behind Islamic madrasas is more a job for the local police and the F.B.I., working with undercover informants and with authorities abroad. ''If it's a 'leaderless jihad,' then I can find something else to do because the threat is over,'' said Peter Bergen, a senior fellow at the nonpartisan New America Foundation, who puts himself in Dr. Hoffman's camp. ''Leaderless things don't produce big outcomes.''
 On the other hand, if the main task can be seen as thwarting plots or smiting Al Qaeda's leaders abroad, then attention and resources should continue to flow to the C.I.A., the State Department, the military and terror-financing sleuths. 
 ''One way to enhance your budget is to frame it in terms of terrorism,'' said Steven Simon, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''But the problem is that 'Al Qaedatry' is more art than science -- and people project onto the subject a lot of their own preconceptions.'' 
 The divide over the nature of the threat turned nasty, even by the rough standards of academia, when Dr. Hoffman reviewed Dr. Sageman's book this spring for Foreign Affairs in an essay, ''The Myth of Grass-Roots Terrorism: Why Osama bin Laden Still Matters.'' He accused Dr. Sageman of ''a fundamental misreading of the Al Qaeda threat,'' adding that his ''historical ignorance is surpassed only by his cursory treatment of social-networking theory.''
 In the forthcoming issue of Foreign Affairs, Dr. Sageman returns fire, accusing Dr. Hoffman of ''gross misrepresentation.'' In an interview, Dr. Sageman said he was at a loss to explain his rival's venom: ''Maybe he's mad that I'm the go-to guy now.'' 
 Some terrorism experts find the argument silly -- and dangerous. ''Sometimes it seems like this entire field is stepping into a boys-with-toys conversation,'' said Karen J. Greenberg, executive director of New York University's Center on Law and Security. ''Here are two guys, both of them respected, saying that there is only one truth and only one occupant of the sandbox. That's ridiculous. Both of them are valuable.'' 
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, a former director of central intelligence, sees merit in both sides, too; he said in Singapore last week that Al Qaeda is training European, and possibly American, recruits. But, he added, ''You also have the development of violent, extremist networks.'' 
 One argument for playing down Al Qaeda's importance -- Dr. Sageman's point -- has been the public declarations of some prominent Sunni clerics who have criticized Al Qaeda for its indiscriminate killing of Muslim civilians. 
 A leading Syrian-born militant theorist believed to be in American custody, known by the nom de guerre Abu Musab al-Suri, also has argued in favor of leaderless jihad. In his 1,600-page life work, he advises jihadists to create decentralized networks of individuals and local cells bound by belief, instead of hierarchical structures that could be targets of attack. He has referred to Mr. bin Laden as a ''pharaoh.'' 
 Dr. Hoffman's principal argument relies on the re-emergence of Al Qaeda, starting in 2005 and 2006, along the Afghan-Pakistan border. There is empirical evidence, he says, that from that base, Al Qaeda has been ''again actively directing and initiating international terrorist operations on a grand scale.'' 
 But it has been easy for intelligence agencies to get the analysis wrong when faced with piecemeal and contradictory evidence. 
 One example is the 2004 train bombings in Madrid that killed 191 people. Declarations by several Spanish officials and experts of such a link were undermined by evidence that the group was self-motivated, self-trained and self-financed, and that the explosives were bought locally.
 Other examples are provided by the 2004 plot to attack the London area with fertilizer bombs, and the July 7, 2005, transit bombings in London. At first, both were thought to support the home-grown terrorist thesis: British citizens, most of Pakistani descent, had carried out attacks with homemade bombs. Only later did evidence surface that in both cases, at least some had trained in Pakistan at military camps suspected of links to Qaeda operatives. 
 So a question remains: Was Mohammad Sidique Khan, one of the suicide bombers in the 2005 attacks, a local kid gone wrong, a full-fledged Qaeda operative, or both?
 ''You can argue that if you subtract his travel to Pakistan, there's no 7/7,'' said Samuel J. Rascoff, an assistant professor of law at New York University and a former intelligence official with the New York City police. ''You can also argue that if you subtract his radicalization in Northern England, there's no 7/7.''
 Dr. Sageman's critics argue that his more local focus plays to a weak point in gauging threats: People tend to feel the threat nearest to home is the most urgent. In April, for example, the Kansas City office of the F.B.I. met with state and local authorities from Kansas and Missouri to analyze ''agroterrorism,'' a big issue in America's heartland. The discussion was about the possibility of terrorists causing an outbreak of diseases that could poison cattle or crops, crippling the economies of farm states.
 Terrorism-weary prosecuting judges and police investigators in Europe listen to the debate on the other side of the Atlantic and tend to find it empty. They say it is hard to know where radicalization starts -- among groups of friends, in an imam's sermon in Europe or at home on the Internet -- and when operational training by Al Qaeda is a factor. They prefer a blended approach. 
 France, Spain and Italy, for example, pour resources and manpower into investigations at home -- from studying radicalization and wiretapping suspicious individuals to infiltrating mosques and community centers. These countries also track movements of suspicious individuals abroad and networks with both local and foreign connections. Terrorist-related cases fall under the authority of special investigative superjudges who have access to all classified intelligence, and can use much of the information in trials. 
 The Europeans say that for them, the argument is not theoretical. Somewhere in Europe, just about every week, a terrorist plot is uncovered and arrests are made.
 ''The danger of this 'either-or' argument could lead us to the mistakes of the past,'' said Baltasar Garzon, Spain's leading antiterror investigatory magistrate. ''In the '90s, we saw atomized cells as everything, and then Al Qaeda came along. And now we look at Al Qaeda and say it's no longer the threat. We're making the same mistake again.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AT ODDS: Bruce Hoffman, left, says Al Qaeda is the danger. For Marc Sageman, right, it's local terrorists. (pg.WK8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY PATRICK LEGER) (pg.WK8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); POLICE FORCES (87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); HISTORY (70%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (70%); WRITERS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (73%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



189 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ARCHITECTURE ISSUE; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 3392 words

HEADLINE: FACE VALUE

BYLINE: By ARTHUR LUBOW

 BODY:
In late April, I traveled to Minneapolis to see a building: the Walker Art Center expansion, designed by the eminent Swiss firm Herzog & de Meuron. Unlike the typical archi-tourist, though, I wasn't there to admire (or disparage) the way the museum occupied its site, or the functionality of the galleries, or the flow of the space. My interest was skin-deep. I was armed with a checklist of superficialities, like the pattern created by the crinkled aluminum-mesh panels that clad the exterior; the seals that surround the flush-mounted, irregularly shaped windows; and the visibility of the structural steel in the tall glass wall that connects to the older building. The next day, in Ohio, I would be on a similar mission at the Glass Pavilion of the Toledo Museum of Art, a low-slung transparent structure by the Japanese architecture firm Sanaa. 
Marc Simmons, a founder of the New York-based facade-engineering-and-design consultancy Front Inc., which worked on both the Walker and the Glass Pavilion, instructed me to pay special attention in Toledo to the seams between the large glass panels. Crucially, if imperceptibly, every joint was occupied by a clear gasket that shielded the adhesive inside a panel from reacting chemically with the silicone seal joining the panels. ''Otherwise, at every translucent joint, you would have edge blushing'' -- a milky white, uneven squiggling -- ''and that would be an unmitigated disaster,'' Simmons said.
 If, as Mies van der Rohe reportedly pronounced, ''God is in the details,'' then Simmons and his colleagues at Front are architecture's high priests. (The detail-oriented should note that the sole citation for Mies having said that ''God is in the details'' -- as well as his other famous aphorism, ''Less is more'' -- comes from a 1959 interview with The New York Herald Tribune.) When you build according to the streamlined and unforgiving aesthetics of modern design, exactitude becomes paramount, and deviation a disaster. Anyone who has marveled at the swooping, jagged, iridescent and crystalline buildings that are being strewn across the contemporary cityscape like diamonds and rhinestones might well have wondered about the jeweler. Who ensures that every facet is precisely cut? Enter the facade consultancy, a new category of expert in which Front is the leader. ''They are wizards at putting it all together,'' the architect Neil Denari says. ''They've cornered the market.''
 Since it was established in 2002, Front has worked with most of the world's pre-eminent architects -- Frank Gehry, Rem Koolhaas, Jean Nouvel, Renzo Piano, Richard Rogers and Tadao Ando among them. In addition to realizing the details, the Front consultants can help an architect arrive at the facade design, determining the pattern and material of the cladding. They also find the fabricators to produce it. Because unusual facades catch the public's eye and generate much of the popular interest in contemporary architecture, clients often urge an architect to build something that looks unbuildable. One-of-a-kind facades have spread virally from public institutions -- mainly museums and universities -- to commercial projects like residential condominiums because real-estate developers grasp that gee-whiz buildings can entice buyers. And wherever a client wants an unprecedented facade, Front finds an opportunity.
 Until a century or so ago, the facade provided a building's structural support as well as weather shielding and curb appeal. The development of the skyscraper changed that. Now, for most urban buildings of note, a steel or reinforced-concrete skeleton makes the building stand up tall, resisting both the downward pull of gravity and the lateral instability that is aggravated by wind or earthquake. Having shed its load-bearing role, the facade is more like a skin, which is one of the names used for it. It is also known as a ''curtain wall,'' since it is hung from the load-bearing structure. ''In the shorthand, there is a tendency to refer to us as the 'curtain-wall guys,' '' says Bruce Nichol, one of Front's five original partners. (Two have since left the firm, which today employs 32 people in a low-frills office on the western edge of SoHo.) Today, the most advanced architects are pushing their facades in one of two opposing directions: to merge more fully with the structure or to embrace ornament resplendently. Front is flexible. Depending on the architect's approach, the facade consultants can go either way.
 Front's founders have experience at some of the best architecture and engineering firms. Three were working at Dewhurst Macfarlane & Partners, a structural-engineering-and-facade consultancy, when Simmons took the initiative in organizing an independent company. Dewhurst Macfarlane subcontracted six major facade projects to the new agency. The Walker in Minneapolis and the Glass Pavilion in Toledo were on the roster. So were Gehry's extension to the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington (canceled just before construction was to start) and Piano's expansion of the Morgan Library and Museum in New York. Two of the jobs -- the Seattle Central Library and a Beverly Hills flagship store for Prada, both in 2004 -- were with Koolhaas's firm, Office for Metropolitan Architecture.
 The two OMA projects marked the opposite approaches to facade design: one was constructed primarily for display and the other for functionality. In Beverly Hills, the OMA architects were working with a relatively free-spending private client and (this being a fashion store) an emphasis on appearances. OMA decided to construct a closed metal box over a ground-floor level that was completely open to the street. While the design was severely rectilinear in a Modernist way, the thinking was over-the-top. So that the box would look as solid as possible (in contrast to the airiness of the level below), the architects wanted it assembled from unsegmented metal panels. Only three of the four sides of the box were exposed, but one of those sides was very long. ''It's a 42-foot-long and 14-foot-high and half-inch-thick sheet of aluminum,'' Simmons told me. ''It must be the world's biggest sheet of architectural aluminum. When it was proposed that the whole front and the two sides would be solid sheets of aluminum, there was not a person that knew whether you could do it. There's a lot of geometry involved in making the sheets of aluminum lock perfectly. It didn't seem likely.'' Front learned that Alcoa was able to provide the aluminum, and then the contractor located an aircraft fabricator in St. Louis to mill it with ultraprecision. Since the architects didn't want the aluminum to be painted and it was too big to be anodized, Italian artisans hand-finished it. ''The aluminum, when fabricated and fully installed, cost $380 a square foot, and today it would cost $1,000,'' Simmons said. Not many clients would sign off on that expenditure. Even more satisfying was Prada's embrace of the uncertainty inherent in building something unprecedented. ''Prada paid us to figure out a way to make this on the hypothesis that it could be done -- when no one, including us, knew that it could be,'' Simmons said. 
 Front was even more deeply immersed in the architectural process for OMA's other project, the Seattle Central Library, an instant civic landmark that, like the Eiffel Tower, delighted some and offended others. In the case of the library, OMA, the collaborating architecture firm of LMN and Front addressed an aspect of the curtain wall that has long troubled the modernist sensibility. Like the gray flannel suit, which also achieved cultural ascendancy in America in the mid-20th century, the curtain wall bears little relation to the reality of what lies underneath. It's a disguise. Modernist architects, however, believed that the outside of a building should reveal what lies behind it. In midcentury, some Modernists -- especially Mies -- finessed the contradiction as best they could. Mies's beautiful facades of glass and metal shared a visual aesthetic with the steel holding up the building, even though those facades still hung on the structure like a mask.
 In Seattle, working on a tight budget, the architects devised a scheme in which the curtain wall is configured precisely to the underlying structure. It is truly transparent, almost indistinguishable from the framework. (Koolhaas wanted it to be one and the same, but that wasn't technically possible.) First of all, to reduce the quantity of costly steel, Koolhaas and his colleagues decided to support the building against earthquakes with a diamond-patterned steel lattice structure known as a diagrid. To save more money -- essential for a project that was teetering on its budget line -- the architects wanted to insert the exterior glass panels of the facade in an aluminum lattice that would match up with the heavier steel diagrid underneath. The engineers ran the numbers for the optimal size of the diamond-shaped openings in the structural-steel diagrid. The facade consultants did the same for the dimensions of the glass panels on the outside. ''You buy a huge piece of glass,'' explains Joshua Prince-Ramus, the OMA partner in charge of the project, who now has his own New York-based firm, REX. ''You have to find a way to cookie-cutter it out to have the least wastage. Then, labor -- over a certain dimension, you go from two employees to four employees, then from four to eight. It's all in the union contracts, how many workers to move a piece of glass over a certain size, and suddenly, your labor cost doubles.'' Serendipitously, Simmons found that the most efficient use of the glass would be to cut it into diamond shapes with sides of 1.1 meters; when the engineers analyzed the structural steel frame, they discovered that the ideal length of each side of the lattice opening was a little more than 0.9 meters. The structural engineers and facade consultants made the sizes conform. 
 There was a remaining obstacle, however, once you went from the concept to the manufacture. The strictly measured diamond lattice of the waterproof facade had to be superimposed on the less precisely fabricated diagrid and bolted to it. ''We don't get the economy if the glass doesn't fit with the dimensions of the structural steel,'' Prince-Ramus said. To allow for discrepancy, Front devised adjustable bolts that would attach the facade to the corresponding steel structure. ''It's a three-dimensional fudge,'' Prince-Ramus said. ''Whenever the steel is not matching perfectly, if you use this attachment, you can make it work.'' Koolhaas, who first joined forces with Front on the Seattle Central Library, told me, ''The collaboration in Seattle was successful and crucial in working through the ultimate logic.'' Together, on a far grander scale, OMA and Front have gone on to develop another facade that flaunts the structural-steel diagrid pattern, this one for the muscularly cantilevered CCTV building that is nearing completion in Beijing.
 On an unorthodox project, the client's daring is as important as the architect's. Front worked on both of the American buildings of the refined and creative modernist architecture firm Sanaa. For the first, the Glass Pavilion of the Toledo Museum of Art, the firm's principals, Kazuyo Sejima and Ryue Nishizawa, devised a glass structure that contains contiguous rooms, most of them with curved glass walls. The building would house the art-glass collection established by Edward Drummond Libbey, a glass magnate who, with his wife, founded the Toledo Museum in 1901. Sadly, no local firm could fabricate the architectural glass for the pavilion. Almost a quarter of the building's budget was for glass. ''If the glass was twice the price, we couldn't build the building,'' the project architect, Florian Idenburg, told me; he has since left Sanaa to start his own Brooklyn-based firm, SO-IL. The glass was fabricated in China. When I inquired about its provenance, Carol Bintz, an official at the Toledo Museum, said: ''People in the community questioned it, because Toledo is known for glass. But no U.S. plant could handle the required scale and curvature.'' The client's openness to global sourcing helped make the building a reality.
 The Toledo decision makers also indulged Sanaa's determination to keep the roof as unobtrusive as possible, which required Front to investigate novel ways of installing the glass walls. If you had a thick roof, you could maneuver the curved glass wall panels by inserting them into a deep groove in the ceiling. But Sanaa wanted a shallow roof, and that posed a challenge. Front embedded a special bracket in the ceiling to allow the glass to be raised into position in two stages. And to keep the joints between the glass panels slender, it devised a rocker mechanism that sits invisibly within the track on which the glass rests; should the floor happen to sag momentarily, the mechanism bows up to keep the glass vertical. Consequently, the joints can be slender and the ceiling shallow. As the Front partner Michael Ra explained to me, ''You're trying to erase the evidence of construction.'' And Front wielded the eraser. ''We really pushed it to the extreme of what you could do,'' Idenburg said. 
 But when Front collaborated with Sanaa again, on the New Museum in New York, the partnership foundered. In their winning competition entry, Sejima and Nishizawa wrapped the building -- which resembles a misaligned stack of boxes -- in galvanized steel, a material that was soon abandoned on grounds of durability. Then the search began. Working with Front, the architects considered many possible skins that would have an industrial feel, in keeping with the museum's site on the gritty Bowery and its mission to show edgy, contemporary art. Their explorations were far-ranging. Sejima and Nishizawa traveled to Reutlingen, Germany, with Martin Riese, a Front founder who has since left to run Gehry Technologies Asia in Hong Kong: the object of their interest was a building facade of laser-cut stainless steel -- an intriguing option until they learned that it would cost about four times what they could afford. Another potential model was the Selfridges department store designed in Birmingham, England, by Future Systems, which features an eye-catching facade of an Yves Klein blue, rubberized waterproof sublayer dotted with aluminum discs. The chemist who oversaw the rubber fabrication came to New York, and the team commissioned a sizable mock-up. ''The applicator was having so much trouble that at one point he fell over backward and injured himself,'' Bruce Nichol, the Front partner in charge, recalled. That option was also rejected.
 After Sejima, fearing the facade might look too flat and dull, proposed a mesh over a solid layer, she and Front began researching meshes. Sejima liked one with a very wide opening that was available in Japan, in a brilliantly finished anodized aluminum. Unfortunately, the polishing process was so chemically toxic that the aluminum could be manufactured nowhere else, not even in China. And the Japanese material was very expensive. Nichol located a fabricator near his native city of Newcastle, England, that could supply a comparable mesh. ''They have very sophisticated Czechoslovak machinery, an old tool from the 1930s that had been used for reinforcement mesh for concrete slabs,'' he said. But the client was growing impatient. ''They were moving too slowly, and it was really holding us up,'' Lisa Phillips, the New Museum director, recalled. ''It was all in the hypothetical realm.''
 Although Front's contacts with global suppliers and its technical prowess allow it to move quickly once the design is chosen, the road to that point can be tortuous. ''Bruce got really frustrated,'' Idenburg, the project architect, said. ''He needed time to explore. And every time, a man in a suit would call and say: 'How much will it cost? When will we get this?' '' Or what would be the impact on energy conservation? On installation expense? Finally, the client's frustration reached the crisis point. ''Every time something got delayed, the budget was doubling,'' Phillips said. ''We started realizing that, and we said, 'This has to stop.' '' Front was fired. The built facade went on to feature the wide mesh that Nichol located in Newcastle, with a sublayer of corrugated extruded aluminum that resembles one of the options he was investigating. ''The New Museum had a very tight budget and less of an environment of exploration and experiment,'' Idenburg told me. ''They couldn't gamble. Maybe Front was overqualified, because there was less desire to think outside the box and more desire for dry engineers who could make this building go up in New York on a tight budget. New York is a hostile environment for innovation.''
 We are living in a golden age for (glass, aluminum, titanium, stainless-steel and -- who knows? maybe someday gold) facades. Even in New York they have arrived. To enable an unconventional condominium in the West Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan to go up without compromise, Front moved from consulting into a more active role. Highline 23 will be the first significant building by Neil Denari, a Los Angeles architect who is known as a teacher and theorist. As an understatement, you could say that the exterior of HL23 is atypical. Two facades of the building are curtain walls with floor-to-ceiling glass panels of different sizes, shapes and decorative patterns; the third is a stainless-steel wall that looks over the future Highline elevated park. 
 Even before HL23 crossed his desk, Michael Ra, the Front partner, had been wanting to get his hands dirty in the construction process. So with Marc Simmons, he formed a company, Via, that could bid on a job and fabricate the materials. The Highline project is his first big test. On HL23, the glass panels are so large -- in some cases, 30 feet wide and 12 feet high -- that they have to be composed of smaller panes. Ra concluded that it would be less exorbitant to assemble them as ''megapanels'' to be hung on the steel frame than it would be to glaze the wall on site. ''In New York City, labor costs are high and unpredictable,'' he explains. He arranged to have the whole glass curtain wall manufactured in China: the glass, the steel frames, the operable windows, the laminated sections -- and, finally (putting all the parts together), the fabricated megapanels, which will be shipped to New York. Denari says that Front's involvement has reduced the construction budget substantially. ''The rise of Front has not only to do with their intelligence on detailing, but also, they are guys on the street who know where and how things are made,'' he says. ''That's why architects are flocking to them.''
 Satisfying as such experiences are, they aren't enough -- at least not for Marc Simmons. Front's intellectual investment in design, he says, ''was going to lead us ultimately to designing buildings. I guess I always knew that.'' He knows it even better now. In April, he learned that Front had won an invited competition to design a Louis Vuitton storefront on a prominent pedestrian corner in Singapore. Front's entry was exuberantly baroque: a curtain wall that drapes extravagantly, like a curtain of glass. ''All the glass is curved -- C-curved or S-curved or double-S-curved,'' Simmons told me. The curved glass panels, which are two layers thick, will be molded in different textures, and the laminate in between the layers will be printed in varying motifs. The contrasting panels will be arranged in such a way that from a distance, the wall will legibly display a checkerboard pattern that is a Vuitton signature.
 Because the construction of novel facades is central to contemporary architecture, Simmons and company are well situated to move from the outside up. At times, it may seem that Front is neglecting the forest for the trees. And then you recall that in the current climate, the dazzling specimen, not the urban context or master plan, is what people are clamoring for. Even if you feel we are living in a superficial time, you have to respect the way Front ponders surfaces so profoundly. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OUTSIDE ART: The exterior of the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMBROISE TEZENAS)
Front Inc. found a source for the mesh on the facade of the New Museum in New York, but the firm's open-ended explorations exhausted the client's patience. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMBROISE TEZENAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Seattle Central Library, designed by Rem Koolhaas. Koolhaas wanted the structure to be the facade. Front Inc. pushed the concept as close as it could go. (PHOTOGRAPH 52 BY AMBROISE TEZENAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CHARTS: Largest Metropolitan Areas in 1900 = 100,000 PEOPLE (CHART BY CATALOGTREE
SOURCE: ' 'FOUR THOUSAND YEARS OF URBAN GROWTH, 50 ' ' TERTIUS CHANDLER)
Largest Metropolitan Areas in 2006 = 100,000 PEOPLE (CHART BY CATALOGTREE
 SOURCE: CITY MAYORS.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (87%); ENGINEERING (78%); JEWELRY (76%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (70%); INTERVIEWS (67%); RELIGION (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (71%) OHIO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



190 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CHECKING IN; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: A Flexible Stay For a Hotel Franchisee

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
AS the president of InnWorks, a Minnesota company that manages hotels in 10 states, from Arizona to North Carolina, Teresa Matsui Sanders knows a lot about the franchise agreements that bind hotel owners to national brands.
 ''They're harder to get out of than most marriages, and much more costly,'' Ms. Sanders said.
 Until recently, her hotels were covered by 20-year agreements with the Wyndham Hotel Group, one of the largest hotel franchisors in the world. The agreements allowed the hotels to use the Wyndham brand name Super 8. 
 But as the contracts expired in the last few years, Ms. Sanders said that she was reluctant to renew them. Too much has changed since the 1980s, when Wyndham was a small company and, she said, ''I could get any of the principals on the phone.'' With hotel companies changing hands regularly, ''it's hard to imagine committing to a 20-year alliance with anyone,'' she added. 
 A spokesman for Wyndham, Richard Roberts, said that all of the company's brands require franchisees to sign up for a minimum of 15 years, except for Knights Inn, which offers three-year agreements. Asked about Ms. Sanders's properties, Mr. Roberts said: ''We consider details of our relationships with individual franchisees to be a private business matter. Anyone who wants to affiliate with Wyndham does so at their own initiative. The fact is there are 6,500 hotels in our system for a very good reason: We deliver value to our franchisees.'' The brands also include Days Inn, Ramada and Howard Johnson.
 Ms. Sanders, though, has moved 17 of her 18 hotels to a new brand, Americas Best Value Inn. The company has broken ranks with its competitors by offering franchise agreements that are renewable each year. 
 Offering an alternative to the industry's traditional 20-year contracts has helped make Americas Best Value one of the fastest-growing lodging chains. Nine years after it was founded, its name is on some 800 hotels -- nearly all of which once waved other companies' flags. 
 The company's chief executive and president, Roger Bloss, sounds a populist message, calling Americas Best Value ''a membership association'' and allowing franchisees to vote on company policies, from what kind of shampoo to offer to how much they will pay in fees.
 Mr. Bloss said he stays in his company's hotels as he travels the country with his daughter, Natalee, 12, who plays softball, and he is available to the hotel's owners on his cellphone. (Because the headquarters of the company -- part of the Vantage Hospitality Group -- is in Coral Springs, Fla., and he works out of a Los Angeles suburb, management is reachable several extra hours a day, he said.) 
 Even after deciding to give up the Super 8 affiliation, Ms. Sanders was concerned that business might suffer. ''There have been good and bad results,'' she said. 
 At hotels along interstate highways -- where most of the guests are walk-ins -- ''losing the Super 8 name did hurt us,'' she said, although name recognition is improving as Americas Best Value opens more hotels nationwide. But hotels in destination locations -- where people tend to book in advance -- are doing as well as they did when they were Super 8s. 
 In some cases, she said, she has actually been able to raise rates. ''People see a Super 8, and they're only willing to pay so much, no matter how nice a hotel it is,'' she said.
 Another brand that is shortening the term of its franchise agreements is Rodeway Inn, which is owned by Choice Hotels International. According to Jason Cowan, one of the company's franchise sales executives, Rodeway allows new franchisees the chance to terminate contracts at the end of each year. ''In essence it's a one-year term, just renewable 20 times,'' Mr. Cowan said.
 The idea of offering the easy-out contract, he said, was to ''grow the brand'' at a time when the number of Rodeways appeared to have leveled off. ''We did it because in the economy segment, people were looking for a little more flexibility in their franchise agreements,'' he said.
 The approach ''is doing extremely well,'' Mr. Cowan said, noting that the number of Rodeways has doubled, to about 300, since the company modified the contract in 2004. He says Rodeway has managed to retain many of its franchisees, and that few, if any, exercised the escape clause.
 Still, no one is surprised when a hotel changes brands, especially at the end of a contract. ''It's an ongoing churn,'' said Ed Watkins, the editor of Lodging Hospitality magazine. ''A typical hotel is probably going to have two, three or more brand names in its lifetime. Either the hotel no longer fits the physical requirements of the chain, or the owners have found what they think is a better franchise for that property.'' The Web site of Lodging Hospitality includes a ''franchise calculator'' that helps hotel owners compute the costs of signing with various brands.
 Mario L. Herman, a Washington lawyer who represents franchisees, said the 20-year contracts that are common in the hotel industry would be considered long in other businesses. But given the enormous investment required to open a hotel, he said, some of his clients prefer the long-term contracts. 
 Generally, he said, hotel chains can drop franchisees when their contracts expire. If a chain is looking to upgrade, a hotel might have to undertake renovations to qualify for a new contract. Ms. Sanders said that to renew their Super 8 contracts, her hotels would have had to replace exterior materials, add more dividers and planted areas to their parking lots, and install breakfast rooms. ''We were coming in with price tags of $200,000 to $400,000 per hotel for improvement that no one could prove would increase revenues,'' she said. 
 By switching to Americas Best Value, Ms. Sanders said that she also reduced the fees the hotel pays its franchisor. Americas Best Value charges hotel owners 4 to 6 percent of revenue, she said, which is about half the industry average. In exchange for those fees, hotel owners receive the benefits of national marketing and advertising. 
 And because of the switch, she said, ''my life is better now.'' The reason isn't just that she likes the company. It's also that she can leave the company at a time of her choosing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Teresa Matsui Sanders recently switched brand names of the hotels she manages to Americas Best Value Inn from Super 8, including the one above in Burnsville, Minn. She now has the option of renewing her franchise agreement each year.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY T. C. WORLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (95%); FRANCHISING (92%); FRANCHISEES (92%); HOTEL CHAINS (91%); FRANCHISORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



191 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: The Day The Traffic Did Not Stop In Hartford

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
 The video of a 78-year-old man being tossed in the air after being hit by a car and then left in the street like a discarded food wrapper would have been hideous whoever the victim. 
 But this was the victim: Angel Arce Torres, known to all as Ponce, the town in Puerto Rico he left in 1966 to come to the United States. Father of six daughters and one son, with a flock of grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Dominoes player extraordinaire. Fisherman and Yankees fan. The guy who bought his own garbage can and chained it up to keep the street clean in front of his beloved El Bohio Cafe, where he swept the sidewalk, the way others tend their rosebushes, with the broom he kept in the alley. A retired forklift operator who picked up cans to earn a few extra dollars for Carmen Rodriguez, who lives next to the cafe. The least anonymous man on Park Street, who, thanks to one sickening video, became an unlikely symbol of the scary anonymity of the modern street. 
 And however imperfect the metaphor, no one who knows Mr. Torres can get past the identity of the man lying like a rag on Park Street, the gold dome of the Connecticut Statehouse glimmering on the horizon, as cars drove past and passers-by stopped and stared or walked along. ''Everyone knows Ponce and everyone loves Ponce,'' said Marisa Estrada, who tends bar at El Bohio. ''He's the one who's always doing something for someone else, so how could anyone have done this to him?''
 Mr. Torres, in critical condition and apparently paralyzed, would have been merely the subject of a local crime story if not for two things. 
 The first is the insatiable appetite for daily video of the Internet and the nightly news. This one came in the form of a police video from May 30 that shows two cars, what looked like a dark Honda chasing a tan Toyota. Traveling on the wrong side of the street, the first just misses Mr. Torres, who had just bought milk at the corner store. The second hits him, sending him flying over the windshield. Both cars speed off. As Mr. Torres lies on the pavement, nine cars go past without stopping, people walk by or stop and look, seemingly without doing anything to stop traffic or comfort him, until a police cruiser on its way to another call drives up.
 The second is a simmering concern over crime in Hartford, heightened by another hideous case the same week, in which a former deputy mayor, Nicholas R. Carbone, was beaten and robbed and now faces brain surgery. Combined with some impassioned language by Police Chief Daryl Roberts (''At the end of the day we've got to look at ourselves and understand that our moral values have now changed. We have no regard for each other''), you had not just a sickening scene but also a moment to take stock, for those who live in Hartford and those who do not.
 On Friday, people were still trying to make sense of what had happened. Some, like David Myers, 29 and unemployed, who was on Park Street where Mr. Torres was hit, said the metaphor was simpler than the reality. Rather than being indifferent, four people did telephone 911, he and others said. It happened so fast that many did not quite know what to do. (The police arrived in just over a minute.) People knew that the worst thing they could do would be to try to move an accident victim. 
 ''I don't want to get too political,'' Mr. Myers said, ''but I'd just say a lot of things go on in society on a daily basis that are definitely inhumane, and no one raises an eyebrow. But this, something that happened so fast, you were stunned by it, this is inhumane? We're not human? We're subhuman? What does that mean?''
 Others tried to put what happened in the context of street sociology. The accident occurred on a frazzled block across from a vacant lot, an area favored by homeless people and, some say, by drug users. One block over, where El Bohio is, where there's more commerce and a stronger sense of community, people would have reacted faster, would have been more likely to recognize who the victim was and render aid. 
 But, of course, that man lying on Park Street might have been a homeless person or a drug user, and he might be Ponce with a container of milk, but he was still a human being, said Mr. Torres's son, Angel Arce. If we can't all be heroes, any human being, in the most traumatic moment of his life, deserves someone to stop traffic, someone to hold his hand until help arrives, deserves someone who would have responded the way that Ponce almost certainly would have. And, Mr. Arce added, he certainly deserves someone to come forward with information about the drivers, both still unidentified.
 And if Mr. Myers has a point on broader societal failings, surely the lesson isn't to adjust responsibility down, it is to adjust compassion up, as the elderly man lying on the street did. 
 So if Mr. Arce takes some solace from calls of support and the cards from 100 children at a local elementary school, it's hard to get past the image of his father alone on the street.
 ''It makes me angry and it leaves me hurt,'' Mr. Arce said. ''To think of him there and no one to grab his hand, to offer comfort. He was always there helping everyone in their time of need and in his time, no one was there for him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Angel Arce Torres, 78, known to all as Ponce, was critically injured by a hit-and-run driver on Park Street. (PHOTOGRAPH HARTFORD POLICE DEPARTMENT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PARALYSIS (77%); POLICE FORCES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



192 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: No Mortgage Needed For These Beauties

BYLINE: By DAVE KINNEY

 BODY:
FIRST, the good news. Unlike some investments, collector cars rarely become completely worthless, in the way that shares in a dot-com have been known to do. Barring floods and fires (at least you can insure against those losses), collector cars will rise and fall in value, but they will rarely hit zero.
 But there's even better news: with some careful consideration, they can be quite affordable. Bargain collector cars start well below the price of a Ferrari tune-up, and the variety is wide-ranging. For as little as $5,000, a price at which you can actually enjoy the car, some interesting models are available. 
 If a two-seat sporty car with a good reputation for quality and good fuel economy sounds interesting, two choices come to mind. The original Honda CRX is a small hatchback made from 1984 to 1987, and a slightly larger version was sold from 1988 to 1991. 
 There's no look-posh-for-cheap factor here; this is a basic sports car. They are quick, make sporty noises and don't cost much to run. One version, the fuel-sipping 1989 CRX HF, is rated at 41 miles a gallon in the city and 50 m.p.g. highway. 
 Readily available for under $5,000, many of the CRXs have been highly modified and some have less than a 100,000 miles. The interiors are spartan, often with no air-conditioning, and small; think of the coach section on an airliner. 
 Want a convertible instead? A Mazda Miata is a great pick, and there are plenty of choices for around $5,000. A recently reported sale on eBay of a 1990 red air-conditioned convertible with less than 100,000 miles for $4,575 is indicative of the market. 
 The Miata was introduced in 1989 as a 1990 model. The first-generation Miata was built until the 1997 model year. The Miata, now called the MX-5 Miata, is still manufactured and is in its third generation. 
 If you are willing to spend $10,000, the options expand. You will be able to find, for example, a 1997 Mustang Cobra convertible. In fact, there are hundreds of Mustang choices with an array of colors, years and mileage at that price.
 Mike Heroy, chief executive of Angola Wire Products in Angola, Ind., has owned three Mustang SVOs, a turbocharged 4-cylinder Mustang sold from 1984 to 1986. ''It's the best handling Mustang they ever made up to that point,'' Mr. Heroy said. ''It was Ford's attempt at a European-handling Mustang. It did not sell well because in the day they were more expensive than the V-8 Mustangs.'' 
 Mr. Heroy has some advice for potential Mustang owners. ''If you want to take it on a drag strip, buy a V-8, but for a road course, get an SVO.'' When he sold his last SVO, a 1984, in September 2007, it brought almost $9,000. 
 The 1970-81 Pontiac Firebird coupe is another example of a collector car available for around $10,000. Along with its sister car, the Chevrolet Camaro, they were built by the hundreds of thousands. 
 The sale of a 1979 Firebird at the Kruse Fort Lauderdale auction in Florida last January is typical of the market. Selling at $11,340, the car was powered by a 455-cubic-inch V-8 and had air-conditioning; power windows, steering and brakes; and it also had been recently repainted.
 Available with many colors and options, Firebirds from this, their second generation, were down on power but up on street cred -- the bad boy cars of their era. Options packages included the Formula as well as Trans Am; a lucky find would be a black Trans Am in full ''Smokey and the Bandit'' regalia for about $10,000. 
 Bob Lichty, president of Motorcar Portfolio, a classic car dealership in Canton, Ohio, looks even further into the past for $15,000 collector cars. Mr. Lichty has been selling Ford Model T's, built from 1908 to 1927, and Model A's, produced from 1927 to 1931. 
 ''We just sold a Model T Touring to Spain for $16,000; I have orders for two more cars in that range,'' he said. ''Everyone thought that when the older owners died off, no one would want the T's and A's. The younger guys, and especially Europeans, are now seeing real value in this market.'' 
 Decent Model T's and Model A's have sold on eBay recently for as little as $6,000. 
 An almost forgotten car from Buick might be worth consideration. The Reatta, sold in small numbers from 1988-91 was a sporty two seater, available as a coupe, and, in 1990-91, a convertible as well. 
 Recent eBay offerings have included early coupes that were reported as sold for less than $2,000, while a 9,300-mile 1990 convertible went unsold with a reported high bid of $15,100 against a ''buy it now'' price of $19,990. 
 Early Reattas had a touchscreen dashboard information and entertainment system; the look is as dated as a game of Pong. Buick managed to produce only about 22,000 in the Reatta's production run, and fewer than 2,500 of those were convertibles.
 Another choice for about $15,000 is a fourth-generation Corvette. Produced from 1984 to 1996, these cars have recently started to receive collector recognition. You might not be able to find a pristine 1996 for $15,000, but coupes and convertibles from the middle of the production run are available. Comfort increased during the production run, so early cars tend to be cheaper. 
 If nothing else, you might be able to roll through the recession in retro style. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1997 Ford Mustang Cobra
1991 Honda Civic CRX Si
1990 Mazda MX-5 Miata
1984 Ford Mustang SVO
1977 Pontiac Firebird Esprit
1928 Ford Model A (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE BROCHURE COLLECTION OF STEVE HAYES (MUSTANG COBRA, MUSTANG SVO)
ASSOCIATED PRESS (FIREBIRD)
 LILLIAN OMARIBA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES (MODEL A)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAR ENTHUSIASTS (90%); SPORTS CARS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ANGOLA WIRE PRODUCTS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3496 MISC. FABRICATED WIRE PRODUCTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



193 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; BOOKS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2037 words

HEADLINE: What You Read Is What He Is, Sort Of

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
 IN preparation for the interview David Sedaris cleaned up his living room. Which is to say, he removed the magazines -- The New Yorker, The Atlantic Monthly, The New York Review of Books, GQ -- from the coffee table of his one-bedroom walk-up here, stashed them in a cupboard and closed the door. This left the room practically naked. 
 Mr. Sedaris likes a detritus-free room. And he was afraid of creating the impression that he is some sort of intellectual poseur. ''If you leave them on the table, it looks like you set them out on purpose,'' he explained, referring to the magazines. ''It looks so phony.'' 
 It was characteristically sweet of Mr. Sedaris to be concerned, but it was also unnecessary. He has reached a point in his career where it hardly matters what anyone thinks of his periodicals, his housekeeping or, indeed, of him. His books, starting with ''Barrel Fever'' (1994) and including the recent ''Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim'' (2004), are invariably best sellers, with a total of seven million copies in print and translations into 25 languages. He is about to embark on a 30-city United States book tour. 
 Critics love Mr. Sedaris as much as readers do. Publishers Weekly called him ''Garrison Keillor's evil twin.'' Craig Seligman wrote in The New York Times Book Review that, laughing as he read ''Naked'' (1997) over lunch, ''I spewed a mouthful of pastrami across my desk.'' As Dave Barry said of Stephen King, another author for whom the world is his oyster: ''Pretty much whatever he wants to do, he can do. Like if he said to his publisher, 'I'd like to start a new state, and I'd like to be governor of it,' they would probably do it.' '' 
 Mr. Sedaris's wickedly deadpan prose might suggest a man who is wry but secretly misanthropic, maybe a little weird and prickly, one of those funny-but-difficult characters who do better in writing than in real life. But at 51 he is as gentle and unassuming as his appearance would suggest. He is slight and on the short side, with a mild-mannered face and surprised eyes framed by short, graying hair. His are the unthreatening kind of looks, he said in his quiet, nasal voice, that cause people to come up to him on the street and talk to him. 
 Mr. Sedaris's longtime boyfriend -- he hates words like companion and partner -- is Hugh Hamrick, a painter and set designer who was away in America, so there were only two for lunch. Mr. Sedaris led the way to a sandwich place near his home, close to the Metro stop by the Pantheon. The sandwich shop had been torn down. He tried a second place to eat; it was closed. At the third choice, a vegetarian snack bar, he was effusively greeted by a French bookseller whom he clearly had no recollection of ever having met. After a slightly comic exchange in pidgin French, he secured a vegetable wrap to go. 
 Like its predecessors Mr. Sedaris's new book, ''When You Are Engulfed in Flames'' (Little, Brown), is a collection of first-person essays culled from his life. Some incidents are odder than others. A New York taxi driver talks about sex in an alarmingly graphic manner while Mr. Sedaris is en route to Greenwich Village to visit his sister and sometime collaborator, the actress and writer Amy Sedaris. His habit of blurting out ''d'accord'' (''O.K.'') to French officials he doesn't understand somehow leads to his sitting in a hospital waiting room dressed only in his underpants, surrounded by people who are fully clothed. He becomes embroiled in a 90-minute feud with his seatmate on an airplane. 
 But even the most mundane experience is described through the skewed prism of his unusual sensibility. This makes it far more amusing than if it had happened to a regular person with prosaic powers of description or a lesser ability to find the absurd in the ordinary. 
 But how authentic is it? How much can we believe that Mr. Sedaris's funny tales are also the truth? 
 Last year, while Mr. Sedaris was living in Tokyo, quitting smoking, a small storm was breaking out back in the United States. Like the writers James Frey, Stephen Glass and Jayson Blair, Mr. Sedaris was being accused of making things up.
 ''I do think Sedaris exaggerates too much for a writer using a nonfiction label,'' Alex Heard wrote in a long article in The New Republic called ''This American Lie.'' (Mr. Sedaris has often appeared on the public radio program ''This American Life.'') In preparation for his article Mr. Heard revisited some Sedaris essays, investigating the places and interviewing the characters. Some details did not match up, and Mr. Heard suggests in the article that Mr. Sedaris ''issue Oprah Moment apologies to a few people'' he has written about, including members of a nudist colony and his mother. 
 Mr. Sedaris has always said that he exaggerates for effect, particularly in dialogue; an author's note in the new book describes the stories as ''realish.'' He also maintains that in the sort of essays he writes, reality is a subjective, slippery concept, particularly as no two people have the same recollection of the same event. ''Memoir is the last place you'd expect to find the truth,'' he said as he nibbled at his sandwich.
 He also said that some details in his essays are obviously fictionalized. ''Naked,'' for instance, has a story ''where my mother hits a cat with her car, and the cat dies, and the cat comes back to life and says, 'You killed me,' '' he said. Speaking of Mr. Heard, he added, ''That's what he was fact-checking, that book.'' 
 Weighing in on The New Republic article many critics said at the time that a little embellishment in humor was hardly the crime of the century. 
 ''Well, flog me with a wet noodle, as Ann Landers used to say,'' Alex Beam wrote sarcastically in The Boston Globe. In The News & Observer of Raleigh, N.C., J. Peder Zane said that Mr. Heard ''is more like the obsessive Inspector Javert than Woodward and Bernstein.'' And in The Washington Post, Peter Carlson called the article ''truly ridiculous'' and suggested that Mr. Heard look into other questions like ''Did Mark Twain fudge facts about how far that frog jumped?'' and ''Did the bed really fall on James Thurber's father?'' 
 But Jack Shafer, who writes the Press Box column for Slate magazine, said Mr. Sedaris deserved everything The New Republic said about him, and more. 
 ''There's a whole section in every bookstore for what a guy like David Sedaris does: it's called the fiction section,'' Mr. Shafer said in a telephone interview. ''He is exploiting his audience by presenting that which is not true as the truth, and he's doing it, basically, to make a better story, and that is deplorable.'' 
 Readers and critics are especially sensitive to signs of fabulism in nonfiction now that some of the most harrowing details in recent mean-streets memoirs, like Mr. Frey's ''Million Little Pieces,'' have turned out to be invented. But many readers, for whatever reason, seem to hold humor writers to looser standards, almost assuming that they will embroider their anecdotes. Still, at The New Yorker, where much of his work first appears, Mr. Sedaris is subject to the same fact-checking regimen as everyone else, said the magazine's editor, David Remnick. 
 ''I realize that there are all kinds of arguments that one can make about the special place of memoir and the complications of memory itself, but at the same time I think the reader of the magazine has a right to know what he or she is to believe -- or not,'' Mr. Remnick said in an e-mail message. ''As a result, anything that purports to be nonfiction, whether it is a reporting piece from Washington or a memoir, goes through a rigorous process of fact-checking.'' 
 Mr. Sedaris said he was distressed to learn that Mr. Heard had dug up the letters he wrote to a friend in high school and had interviewed his elderly father. But in general he does not seem to be too bothered by the fuss. He leads a pretty sheltered life, away from the chatter and debate that surrounds most people in the wired age. 
 Mr. Sedaris, who comes from North Carolina, moved here with Mr. Hamrick about a decade ago, intending to go back but deciding to stay. Mr. Sedaris has no cellphone; his land line does not have call waiting. (''Nobody ever calls me,'' he said at the end of the afternoon. ''The phone hasn't rung once,'' which was true.) He neither has nor wants an e-mail address.
 He stays away from the Internet -- ''You'll lose a whole year on the Internet, just in terms of looking things up,'' he warned -- and was unnerved when he once idly typed in the name of the host of NPR's ''Fresh Air,'' Terry Gross, and a bunch of critical commentary came up. ''I don't even want to know what anybody thinks about Terry Gross,'' he said.
 In Paris, he said, he has just two friends -- one is a journalist, the other a tour guide from Alabama -- but he doesn't mind: ''Hugh has a lot of friends, and I can sometimes use his friends.'' 
 Mr. Sedaris's writing is leaner now, his sentences more pared, his timing more precise. 
 ''The hardest thing about the Alex Heard article was listening to quotes from the book 'Naked,' '' Mr. Sedaris said. ''I thought, 'It's too dense, and it's trying too hard.' '' Though his prose slips down as smoothly as a Haagen-Dazs ice cream bar, he goes through the sort of process described by John Kenneth Galbraith, who said that ''I do not put that note of spontaneity that my critics like into anything but the fifth draft.''
 For Mr. Sedaris that process involves at least seven drafts and a great deal of reading aloud new pieces while on tour, listening to the cadences of the sentences and noting how the audience responds: when people laugh, when they lose interest. ''You realize you're repeating yourself or being lazy,'' he said. 
 His humor seems to be mellowing. He is focusing less on the crazy family of his childhood and more on his current life with the not-crazy Mr. Hamrick, whom he met some 18 years ago when a mutual friend introduced them. (Mr. Sedaris needed a ladder, and Mr. Hamrick had one.) 
 ''If you're single and unemployed, those are the things that you've got,'' Mr. Sedaris explained, meaning material to write about. ''And now what have you got? 'There are some birds doing strange things in my yard.' '' 
 He was referring to an essay about some Hitchcockian birds that relentlessly tried to peck through the windows of the couple's house in Normandy, apparently in response to hearing the bird song on the Kate Bush track ''Aerial.'' (He and Mr. Hamrick warded off the birds by covering their windows with old album jackets featuring pictures of Bob Dylan, Bruce Springsteen and Donna Summer, ''who has her minuses but can really put the fear of God into a chaffinch.'') 
 Mr. Sedaris has lost none of his taste for the grotesque or the horrific, but if there is an underlying theme in the new book, it could well be the durability of his relationship with Mr. Hamrick, which he laughs at as much as he laughs at everything else. 
 One essay, ''Keeping Up,'' is about how couples argue when on vacation. Mr. Sedaris often hears them on the street below his window, accusing each other of willfully misrepresenting their navigational and French-speaking skills. In his case, he writes, Mr. Hamrick annoys him by walking too quickly, leaving Mr. Sedaris to scuttle, bewildered and lost, in his wake. But then he remembers that Mr. Hamrick does all the couple's paperwork, and handles all the money, and fixes all the broken appliances, and negotiates all the day-to-day living, and how happy he is when he finally spots Mr. Hamrick again. 
 In another essay, ''Old Faithful,'' Mr. Sedaris describes how, when a revolting boil develops on his back, Mr. Hamrick is enlisted to lance it. Which he does, with his usual uncomplaining competence. 
 ''I know you'll do it again if I need you to,'' Mr. Sedaris tells him. ''We're an aging monogamous couple, and this is all part of the bargain.'' 
 Mr. Sedaris explained: ''That was written for a collection of essays about fidelity. They asked me to write something, so I started writing about my boil. I try to remember that story whenever I get mad at Hugh. I think, 'On paper I love him.' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The siblings David and Amy Sedaris in 2001 at the Greenwich House Theater, where their play, ''The Book of Liz,'' was produced. It was directed by Hugh Hamrick (at far right below, with Mr. Sedaris), who appears frequently in the recent essays. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
SUZANNE OPTON/TIME LIFE PICTURES-GETTY IMAGES) (pg. AR21)
David Sedaris meeting readers at a 2004 book signing in Minneapolis. He tests his material with the audiences, he says
 ''you realize you're repeating yourself or being lazy.'' David Sedaris, the essay-writing Paris resident from North Carolina, is embarking on a 30-city tour to promote his new book, ''When You Are Engulfed in Flames.'' (pg. AR1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BESTSELLERS (77%); LITERARY CRITICISM (72%)

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



194 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Running in Circles Over Carbon

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
-- Cutting carbon dioxide emissions is a fine idea, and a lot of companies would be proud to do it. But they would prefer to be second, if not third or fourth. 
 This is not a good way to get started in fighting global warming.
 As efforts to pass a global warming bill collapsed in the Senate last week, companies that burn coal to make electricity were looking for a way to build a plant that would capture its emissions. There is a will and a way -- several ways, in fact -- to do just that. 
 Capturing carbon from these plants may become a lot more important soon. Emissions from coal-fired power plants already account for about 27 percent of American greenhouse emissions, but as prices for other fuels rise, along with power demand, utilities will burn more coal. And if cars someday run on batteries, a trend that $4-a-gallon gasoline will accelerate, then the utilities will burn even more fuel to generate the electricity to recharge those batteries. 
 This could be good news, because controlling emissions from a few hundred power plants is easier than controlling them from tens of millions of house chimneys, or hundreds of millions of tailpipes. And in the laboratory, at least, there are three very promising systems for capturing carbon dioxide before pumping it underground.
 But supplying electricity is not like most other businesses. Unlike the companies that make microchips, clothing for teenagers or snack foods, the companies that make electricity can see no advantage in going first. This is true for the traditionally regulated utilities that can charge everything to a captive class of customers (if regulators approve), and it is also true for the ''merchant generators,'' who build power plants and sell their output on the open market. 
 ''No one wants to go into the new world,'' said Armond Cohen, executive director of the Clean Air Task Force, a nonprofit group that favors stringent controls on power plant emissions. ''We have very few takers because of the price premium.''
 By price premium, Mr. Cohen meant not only the costs of going first, with the high probability of mistakes that others can learn from, but the costs of the new technology itself. The problem is, the premium is of unknown size, which makes everyone in the industry especially wary.
 The point was illustrated by a recent decision by the Virginia State Corporation Commission, which regulates utilities, to turn down an application by the Appalachian Power Company to build a plant that would have captured 90 percent of its carbon and deposited it nearly two miles underground, at a well that it dug in 2003. The applicant's parent was American Electric Power, one of the nation's largest coal users, and perhaps the most technically able. But the company is a regulated utility and spends money only when it can be reimbursed. 
 The Virginia commission said that it was ''neither reasonable nor prudent'' for the company to build the plant, and the risks for ratepayers were too great, because costs were uncertain, perhaps double that of a standard coal plant. And in a Catch-22 that plagues the whole effort, the commission said A.E.P. should not build a commercial-scale plant because no one had demonstrated the technology on a commercial scale. 
 Thus an approach that makes collective sense -- trying out technologies that could be helpful over the long term -- is unattractive to individual participants. 
 That is not the only where-to-get-started problem. Another is that building a plant might make sense to a utility regulator, or to a company that builds power plants on speculation, if it generated pollution credits that the company could then sell to other polluters, for instance, or could help the plant meet emissions quotas. But there are, as yet, no credits to buy or sell and no quota to meet. 
 When Congress debates the idea, one of the drawbacks is that no one is sure where to set the caps on emissions, because no one is sure what the carbon regulation would cost. So there is no regulation, no plant built to meet the regulation, and thus no plant for lawmakers to look at to determine how strict a regulation to pass. 
 Carbon capture is not the only field in which nobody wants to go first; another is nuclear power. Builders in that industry also recognize that the first to build a next-generation reactor (the last one ordered that was actually built was in 1973) will pay a lot more than the builders who follow. But Congress has tried, at least, to solve that problem by offering generous loan guarantees and risk insurance for the first few reactors. There was a plan to heavily subsidize a single capture-and-storage coal plant, but when the estimated construction price nearly doubled, to $1.8 billion, the Energy Department dropped the plan.
 And without full-scale tests, nobody knows what all this would cost. 
 ''The estimates are accurate to within plus 20 percent to plus 100 percent,'' said John Rowe, the chief executive of Exelon, which burns coal and also operates nuclear reactors, and leans toward the latter for new projects. ''These are very complicated projects, with a great deal of both science and engineering and of public acceptability tests that have simply not happened yet,'' he said. In contrast, he argued, nuclear is easier.
 While others differ, or argue that solar or wind would be a better bet, the failure to get started does have a certain circularity to it. Companies will not run to build plants that sequester their carbon because Congress has not set a price for emitting the pollutant. Without the early plants, Congress has little clue how many tons the economy can afford to capture and sequester. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 15, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture last Sunday with an article about cutting carbon dioxide emissions at coal-fired electric plants may have left an incorrect impression that a white plume shown rising from a cooling tower at one such plant was an example of greenhouse gases being discharged. The plume consisted of water vapor. (Carbon dioxide, which would be emitted from the plant's smokestack shown at right, is colorless.) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BUSINESS AS USUAL: This coal-fired electric plant discharges greenhouse gases. New designs could allow those gases to be captured and buried. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (76%); ENERGY DEMAND (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (71%); APPROVALS (63%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (61%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (56%)

COMPANY: APPALACHIAN POWER CO (61%); AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (57%)

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (61%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



195 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1759 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 8, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 IN AFRICA, ALBINOS FACE
 A Price for White Skin
 Discrimination against albinos, thought by many in Africa to have magical powers, has taken a wicked twist in Tanzania: at least 19 albinos, including children, have been killed and mutilated in the past year. Witch doctors are said to be marketing albino skin, bones and hair as ingredients in profitable potions that are promised to make people rich. PAGE 8
 AFGHAN CLAIMS BETRAYAL
 An Afghan mujahedeen commander once described as the Asian counterpart to Pablo Escobar, the Colombian cocaine king, is to face federal drug charges at a trial in New York this week. But he says his arrest was a betrayal by American officials who duped him into believing he was helping a special project to track the ''financial support'' of terrorist organizations in Afghanistan. PAGE 16 
 REACHING OUT TO MUSLIMS
 A longstanding program organized by the State Department that seeks to introduce future foreign leaders to the United States has become part of an American effort to reach out to Europe's Muslims, especially the disaffected young men and women who American leaders fear could fall prey to jihadist rhetoric. PAGE 12 
 Iraqi Ex-Premier Expelled 16
 NATIONAL
 DOCTOR-OWNED HOSPITALS
 May Face New Curbs
 Democrats in Congress are moving to impose new restrictions on doctor-owned hospitals, in the belief that the hospitals drive up costs by encouraging doctors to order more procedures, but have created exemptions for a few well-connected institutions. The result has drawn criticism from conservative Republicans, who support unfettered growth of doctor-owned hospitals, and liberal Democrats, who favor stringent rules with no exceptions. PAGE 22 
 METRO 
 TOY CREATION 
 On a Grand Scale
 The artist Chris Burden used to employ his body as the basic material for his sculptures, with the most infamous pieces, ''Shoot,'' and ''Trans-fixed,'' being accurately titled. More recently he has been fascinated by feats of engineering, and a work hoisted into place on Saturday is a 65-foot Erector Set skyscraper, part of Rockefeller Center's program of monumental outdoor exhibitions. PAGE 37 
 WHEN NO ONE STOPPED
 The video of a 78-year-old man being tossed in the air after being hit by a car and then left in the street raises uncomfortable issues for Hartford. ''If we can't all be heroes,'' Peter Applebome writes in Our Towns, ''any human being, in the most traumatic moment of his life, deserves someone to stop traffic, someone to hold his hand until help arrives.'' PAGE 35 
 OVERSIGHT QUESTIONED
 In the wake of two fatal accidents involving tower cranes, a review of the cranes and derricks unit of the Buildings Department indicates that it has been in turmoil for months, raising questions about the division's ability to monitor the more than two dozen tower cranes at work across the city. 
 PAGE 35
 SPORTS
 ONE UNWILLING, ONE EAGER
 To Talk About the Past
 Tommy Urbanski is a paraplegic in a wheelchair, a bullet still lodged in his spinal cord as a result of a shooting last year outside a strip club where he was the night manager. He is gamely preparing to live his life with no feeling from his belly button down, but is also angry that it took more than a year for Adam Jones, the cornerback known as Pacman, to identify a possible shooter. Sports of The Times, Dave Anderson. PAGE 5 
 BASEBALL'S INDIANS
 Jacoby Ellsbury of the Red Sox, Joba Chamberlain of the Yankees and Kyle Lohse of the St. Louis Cardinals are the only American Indians currently in major league baseball. But over the years there have been dozens, and their contributions are chronicled in an exhibit at the Iroquois Indian Museum in Howes Cave, N.Y. PAGE 11
 OBITUARIES
 BILL FINEGAN, 91
 A music arranger, he worked on hits for Glenn Miller and Tommy Dorsey, and then formed a big band with Eddie Sauter, another legendary arranger, that was famed for skill, daring and very, very odd instruments -- including kazoo and glockenspiel. PAGE 33
 book review
 IF YOU CAN'T BE
 With the 600 You Love
 If you are a potential reader of a novel about a woman's efforts to break the world record for serial fornication, or if you just like to read criticism that rips, there is Lucy Ellmann's review of ''Snuff,'' by Chuck Palahniuk. ''What the hell is going on?'' she asks as an opener. And then off she goes. PAGE 27
 PLAYING THE ODDS
 Say a woman has two children, and one of them is a girl. If you think the odds that the other one will be a girl are 50-50, then ''The Drunkard's Walk: How Randomness Rules Our Lives'' could be an eye-opener for you. PAGE 14
 Sunday business
 A LION AS ITS SYMBOL,
 But Resembling a Lamb
 Mary Parent, the new chairwoman of MGM's motion picture group, is being asked to turn MGM into a player, and do it quickly. That will be no mean feat at a studio that has billions of dollars in debt and a host of other financial challenges, and hasn't fit the profile of a full-fledged production company in years. PAGE 1
 THE POWER OF THOUGHT
 Just wait until this application moves beyond the computer: One company is offering a headset that lets videogame players use electrical activity from the brain, as well as from facial muscles and other spots, to vanquish villains with a mere thought. PAGE 3 
 styles
 THE PRE-PARTY PARTY
 For Art's Inner Circle
 Collectors used to show up the night before the preview party for Art Basel, the highest-profile of the international art fairs. But that turned out to be not enough time for the kind of high-level socializing for the core of the art industry, and they're showing up earlier and earlier. PAGE 1
 THE JOY OF (DAILY) SEX
 Two new books by two very different couples take up the issue of ''the sex-starved marriage'' and what to do about it. Both have the same advice: have more sex. Like, every day, for 101 straight days. Or 365. It's supposed to promote bonding. PAGE 1
 Vested in Fashion 4
 Modern Love 6
 arts & leisure
 AN EITHER-OR PROPOSITION,
 Factual or Funny
 Much has been made of late about the presence or lack of truth in memoirs, and among those under fire has been David Sedaris, who has a new book out. But this is a writer whose essays include one with a cat, hit by his mother's car, that comes back to life and talks to her. He pleads not guilty by reason of humor. PAGE 1
 FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION
 They are the kinds of matches perhaps made often in heaven, but all too rarely in Hollywood: the just-right actor in the just-right role. Ginia Bellafante takes a look at eight in the TV season just past, including one that explored the malevolent side of the fellow who used to tend bar in ''Cheers.'' The Emmys special section. PAGE 4
 CHANNEL SURFING THE WAVE
 With much of television having abandoned -- or never adhered to -- the traditional season, quite a number of new programs or new episodes of old programs will be popping up this summer. Here's just one: Sgt. Robbie Lewis of ''Morse'' fame gets a promotion and his own show, kicking off ''Masterpiece Mystery!'' PAGE 9
 magazine
 ADDRESSING GROWTH
 With Vertical Answers
 A firm based in Rotterdam solves the problem of too many people on too small a planet by tunneling down, packing tight and making pigs fly. PAGE 54 
 AN URBAN CREATOR
 Bernard Tschumi, the architect of such famed urban projects as the Parc de la Villette in Paris, answers questions about things like his favorite memento, travel habits and evening routine, but not last meal, an idea he refuses to contemplate. PAGE 42
 AUTOMOBILES
 LOOKING LIKE A BRUTE,
 But Offering Economy
 The task for Honda in these days of gas-price panic isto convince potential buyers that, despite its S.U.V. look, the redesigned Pilot utility wagon is a crossover that uses car-type construction, powered by a V-6 engine that can save fuel by backing down from six cylinders to four or even three. SPORTS, PAGE 11
 travel
 PUTTING THE 'WILD'
 Back in the West
 The idea takes its inspiration from an essay written two decades ago by two professors who suggested restoring the Upper Midwest to its native state, which they called the Buffalo Commons, and largely replacing agriculture in the region with eco-tourism. And while not everyone agrees with some elements, preservation efforts have taken off. PAGE 3
 CLOSER TO HOME
 If rising transportation costs and sinking dollar values haven't totally scotched your summer travel plans, you may find that some bargains are still available. Las Vegas hotel rooms are going begging. Don't want the heat? Go counterintuitive: try a winter resort in Colorado or Vermont. And some cities are offering packages. PAGE 6
 WEEK IN REVIEW
 'CITIZEN JOURNALISTS'
 Challenge the Rules
 YouTube, blogs and the rise of the self-proclaimed ''citizen journalists'' have given rise to a debate about the dos and don'ts of ethical reporting. Perhaps not surprisingly, there is disagreement even over some of the basics, including whether someone conducting an interview intended for publication is obliged to say so. PAGE 3
 THE SURVIVAL DILEMMA
 As survivors whose continued survival is very much in doubt, the last primitive tribes hidden away in the planet's most remote reaches pose a dilemma for their would-be protectors: whether to leave them to their fate, or to assimilate them into the larger world before they are extinguished. Neither course promises a happy ending. PAGE 5
 EDITORIAL:
 Primary Reforms
 It's been a colorful nominating season, but not the most democratic one. It takes nothing away from the achievements of Barack Obama and John McCain to take note that the system for choosing the parties' nominees is seriously flawed. PAGE 11
 EDITORIAL:
 Women's Work
 Listening to domestic workers talk about their jobs can give a rude jolt to assumptions about social progress and the civility of the rich and upper middle class. PAGE 11
 OP-ED:
 Frank Rich
 The battle between two Americas is on, but the division isn't rooted in class, race, gender or party. PAGE 12
 OP-ED:
 Maureen Dowd
 The many roles of Hillary Clinton: Acting like a gracious loser, Take II. PAGE 13
 OP-ED:
 Thomas L. Friedman
 Warren Buffett and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad have made a bet about Israel's future. It's a bet that comes down to people vs. dinosaurs. PAGE 12
 PUBLIC EDITOR:
 Clark Hoyt
 A study by students at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism suggests that The Times has made progress in its effort to set higher standards for using anonymous sources, the lifeblood and the bane of journalism. PAGE 12

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); WITCHCRAFT (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); RELIGION (73%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (72%); TERRORISM (72%); COCAINE (70%); ARRESTS (70%); LIBERALISM (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); SCULPTURE (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFRICA (90%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



196 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MEYERSON, MONROE R.

 BODY:
 MEYERSON--Monroe R., born August 23, 1930, to Harry and Beatrice Meyerson in Brooklyn, NY, died June 6, 2008, in Boca Raton, FL. He leaves behind his beloved wife of 53 Years, Leila Mann Meyerson, his children, Cindie (Dr. Donald) Kastenbaum, David Meyerson, and Stuart (Lisa) Meyerson, and five wonderful grandchildren: Julie, Harry, Jessica, Samuel and Benjamin. He attended Poly Prep Day School where he achieved a football scholarship to the University of NC/Chapel Hill. He graduated from New York University with a degree in engineering and economics and later obtained an MBA from the Trinity School at NYU. 
As a graduate of ROTC, he became a pilot in the Air Force and was honorably discharged in 1955. He began his career as project manager at Centrig Industries, a small familyoperated construction company in NYC in 1956, and during his 35 year tenure as its Chairman and CEO, grew the company into an internationally recognized leader in heavy industrial construction and a world leader in the installation of newspaper presses, including The New York Times, Chicago Tribune, Miami Herald, San Fransisco Chronicle, Charlotte Observer, and the Washingon Post. As a result of having been a dialysis patient in 1992, Mr. Meyerson founded the Dialysis Centers of America (DCA) in 1995 with a strong commitment to improving the quality of care, treatment and outcomes for dialysis patients. Within three years, DCA grew from a single location to the largest kidney dialysis treatment in the Midwest. DCA'a greatest accomplishment was in the development of renal care informatics which became the ''golden rule'' adopted by the dialysis industry. In 1998, Mr. Meyerson founded the Radiology Corporation of America (RCOA), an innovator and early adopter of Positron Emission Tomography (PET), a new molecular imaging technology that improved the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases, including the early detection of cancer and Alzheimer's Disease. Mr. Meyerson was also instrumental in founding the Institute of Molecular Technology, a trade association which educated the medical community about the benefits of PET technology which led to the acceptance of reimbursement protocols under Medicare. As a result of his daughter's juvenile diabetes in 1967, Mr. Meyerson was a co-founder and the inspiration for the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation (JDF), both the New York chapter and the national organization, where he served as a Board member for many years. In addition, Mr. Meyerson was aformer Director of Gatekeeper Solutions, the Whitney Art Museum, Dance Theater of Harlem, Boca Rio Country Club, and a member of Chief Executives Organization, World Presidents' Organization and Young Presidents' Organization. He was a renaissance man involved in Arts and Theatre and his philanthropic endeavors included support of Technion University, Kravis Center for the Performing Arts, Broward Center for the Performing Arts, University of Minnesota, American Parkinson's Disease Foundation, among many others. Mr. Meyerson was an avid art collector of photorealism and supported many young artists. He generously donated art to both the St. Louis Art Museum and the Whitney Museum Of Art. Services will be held Tuesday, June 10th, 2008, 11:45am at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, the family requests contributions be made to M.D. Anderson Cancer Research Center, Houston, TX, and the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIALYSIS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (87%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (87%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (86%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); AIR FORCES (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); DIALYSIS CENTERS (71%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (71%); KIDNEY DISEASE (71%); CANCER (71%); DIABETES (71%); RADIOLOGY (70%); GENETIC & MOLECULAR MEDICINE (70%); DANCE COMPANIES (68%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (68%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (66%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); CHARITIES (66%); DANCE (60%); MEDICARE (60%); PHILANTHROPY (60%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



197 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: For New Journalists, All Bets, but Not Mikes, Are Off

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
A 61-year-old woman elbows her 5-foot-2-inch frame to the front of the crowd mobbing Bill Clinton after a campaign event in South Dakota. As Mr. Clinton shakes her hand and holds it tight, she deftly draws him into a response to an article on the Vanity Fair Web site that examines his post-presidential life. ''Sleazy'' and ''slimy'' are among the words that issue from the former president's mouth. Within hours, audio of the three-minute exchange -- including the woman's description of the article as a ''hatchet job,'' and Mr. Clinton's description of Todd Purdum, the author and a former reporter for The New York Times, as ''dishonest'' -- is available for the world to hear on the Huffington Post Web site. 
 Which might have caught Mr. Clinton by surprise. 
 The woman, Mayhill Fowler, who calls herself a citizen journalist, wore no credential around her neck and did not identify herself, her intentions or her affiliation as an unpaid contributor to Off the Bus, a section of The Huffington Post. While her digital audio recorder was visible in her left hand during that encounter last Monday, she says, she did not believe Mr. Clinton saw it. ''I think we can safely say he thought I was a member of the audience,'' she said in a telephone interview on Friday.
 The incident, widely mined on the cable news channels as fresh evidence of Mr. Clinton's volcanic temper in the waning hours of his wife's presidential campaign, has prompted an entirely different discussion -- this one among political reporters, journalism teachers, public relations strategists and bloggers themselves -- about the dos and don'ts of ethical reporting in the YouTube age. 
 Among the questions posed last week was this: in an era when anyone with a cellphone and wi-fi connection can make like Tom Brokaw, do the long-accepted conventions of engagement (like a reporter's volunteering who she is without being asked) still apply? 
 ''This makes it very difficult for the rest of us to do our jobs,'' Jonathan Alter, a columnist and political reporter for Newsweek, said in an interview. ''If you don't have trust, you don't get good stories. If someone comes along and uses deception to shatter that trust, she has hurt the very cause of a free flow of public information that she claims she wants to assist.''
 ''You identify yourself when you're interviewing somebody,'' Mr. Alter added. ''It's just a form of cheating not to.''
 But to Jane Hamsher, a onetime Hollywood producer who founded Firedoglake, a politics-oriented Web site that tilts left, Mr. Alter's rules of the road are in need of repaving. For starters, she said, the onus was on Mr. Clinton to establish who Ms. Fowler was before deciding to speak as he did. That he failed to quiz her at all, Ms. Hamsher said, was Mr. Clinton's problem, not Ms. Fowler's. As a result, Ms. Hamsher said, the public got to experience the unplugged musings of a former president (and candidate's spouse) in a way that might never have been captured on tape by an old boy on the bus like Mr. Alter.
 ''It's hurting America that journalists consider their first loyalty to be to their subjects, and not to the people they're reporting for,'' she said. Told, for example, that the Times ethics policy states that ''staff members should disclose their identity to people they cover (whether face to face or otherwise),'' Ms. Hamsher was dismissive. In the context of political reporting, she said, such guidelines are intended to ''protect this clubby group of journalists and their high-ranking political subjects, and keep access to themselves.''
 ''That,'' she added, ''is not the world we're living in anymore.'' 
 Ms. Fowler, it turns out, is the same person who used her status as a contributor to the campaign of Senator Barack Obama (something disclosed on the Huffington site) to gain access in April to an Obama fundraiser in San Francisco that the mainstream news media was not invited to. Here again, her digital recorder picked up an incendiary remark -- Mr. Obama saying of some economically frustrated Pennsylvanians, ''It's not surprising then they get bitter, they cling to guns or religion.''
 Kelly McBride, leader of the ethics group at the Poynter Institute, a training center for print and television reporters (and more recently those online) said she saw merit in Ms. Fowler's work, but cause for concern, too.
 ''On the one hand, when political candidates are so polished and put together, with their images so crafted for the rest of the universe, I think it's good for democracy that it's harder for them to maintain that because of citizen journalism,'' Ms. McBride said. ''But I also worry that as citizens take on the role of journalists, the amount of trickery will escalate -- the sort of baiting of people and egging them on.''
 Ms. Fowler, who has worked as a teacher and written fiction, had no experience as a professional journalist before joining the campaign trail a year ago. Eventually, she came to the attention of Off the Bus, a joint project of Arianna Huffington and Jay Rosen, a media critic and professor of journalism at New York University. The idea is to pair motivated amateurs like Ms. Fowler with professional editors like Marc Cooper. Mr. Cooper, the project's editorial director, has been a contributing editor for The Nation for more than a decade and an occasional contributor to The Los Angeles Times, The Washington Post and other publications.
 ''All the rules of the game that we've been teaching in journalism school, it's not that they're immoral or bad or wrong, it's that they just changed, my friend,'' said Mr. Cooper, who teaches reporting at the Annenberg School of Communication at the University of Southern California. ''We didn't even do it conspicuously. The rules of the game have been redefined by technology. We're merely the instrument of that.''
 Still, Mr. Rosen said he remained concerned that Ms. Fowler had not tried, in the span of a conversation that lasted several minutes, to alert the former president to who she was. (Speaking Friday, she said she had her Off the Bus business card in hand moments before meeting Mr. Clinton, but somehow lost it before she could give it to him.)
 ''In the interest of full disclosure, it would have been better if she said, 'Mr. President, I'm a blogger from Off the Bus and I have a question,' '' Mr. Rosen said. ''I also understand the situation she's in, he's on a rope line, and it's crowded and there are people shouting at him.''
 ''We didn't anticipate exact circumstances like this,'' Mr. Rosen added. ''We didn't think up guidelines for what to tell her in a situation like this.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NORA KRUG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); JOURNALISM (88%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (76%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (76%); ETHICS (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); CITIZEN JOURNALISM (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



198 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Chavez Suffers Military and Policy Setbacks

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
On the same day Colombia said it had captured a Venezuelan national guard officer carrying 40,000 AK-47 assault rifle cartridges believed to be intended for leftist guerrillas, President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela said Saturday he would withdraw a decree overhauling intelligence policies that he had made earlier that week. 
 The rare reversal by Mr. Chavez came amid intensifying criticism in Venezuela from human rights groups. 
 The capture of the Venezuelan officer in eastern Colombia could reignite tensions between the neighboring countries over Venezuela's support for the rebel group FARC.
 Colombia's attorney general, Mario Iguaran, said Saturday that security forces had captured the national guard officer carrying cartridges that the Colombian authorities believe were intended for the FARC. 
 While Mr. Chavez's government did not immediately comment on the arrest of the Venezuelan officer, who was identified as Manuel Teobaldo Agudo Escalona, the episode suggests that pressure could mount in Washington to add Venezuela to the list of countries that are state sponsors of terrorism. 
 Colombian officials have recently said that Venezuela tried to provide arms and financing for the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, basing their claims on references to such dealings in archives from computers obtained in an April raid on the rebels. The United States and the European Union classify the FARC as terrorists. 
 Venezuela, which expresses ideological solidarity with the Marxist-inspired FARC, has said that no further proof of such assistance has emerged. But that was before Colombia announced the arrest of the Venezuelan officer, captured in Puerto Narino in eastern Colombia with another Venezuelan citizen and two Colombians. 
 The type of cartridges in the possession of the four men are used in assault rifles commonly employed by the FARC, which has been active in Colombia for more than four decades. Colombia, one of the largest recipients of American counterinsurgency aid outside the Middle East, has recently killed several senior FARC commanders. 
 Amid festering tension with Colombia, including claims that Colombian paramilitaries were fomenting destabilization plots, President Chavez quietly unveiled his intelligence law in late May, which would have abolished the DISIP secret police and DIM military intelligence, replacing them with new intelligence and counterintelligence agencies. 
 But in a rare act of self-criticism on Saturday, Mr. Chavez acknowledged the ire that his intelligence overhaul had provoked among legal scholars and human rights groups, which said Mr. Chavez was attempting to introduce a police state by forcing judges to cooperate with intelligence services and criminalizing dissent.
 ''Where we made mistakes we must accept that and not defend the indefensible,'' Mr. Chavez said at a campaign rally in Zulia State for gubernatorial and mayoral candidates from his Socialist party. ''There is no dictatorship here,'' he continued. ''No one here is coerced into saying more than they want to say.'' 
 Reeling from the defeat of a constitutional reform in December that would have expanded his powers, Mr. Chavez, in his 10th year in power, is facing multiple challenges as a reinvigorated opposition fields candidates in regional elections this year and Venezuela's economic growth slows despite record oil prices. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela in Maracaibo on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCELO GARCiA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); FIREARMS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); GOVERNORS (67%); ELECTION LAW (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); MAYORS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



199 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: People Vs. Dinosaurs

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Tefen Industrial Park, Israel
 Question: What do America's premier investor, Warren Buffett, and Iran's toxic president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, have in common? Answer: They've both made a bet about Israel's future.
 Ahmadinejad declared on Monday that Israel ''has reached its final phase and will soon be wiped out from the geographic scene.'' 
 By coincidence, I heard the Iranian leader's statement on Israel Radio just as I was leaving the headquarters of Iscar, Israel's famous precision tool company, headquartered in the Western Galilee, near the Lebanon border. Iscar is known for many things, most of all for being the first enterprise that Buffett bought overseas for his holding company, Berkshire Hathaway. 
 Buffett paid $4 billion for 80 percent of Iscar and the deal just happened to close a few days before Hezbollah, a key part of Iran's holding company, attacked Israel in July 2006, triggering a monthlong war. I asked Iscar's chairman, Eitan Wertheimer, what was Buffett's reaction when he found out that he had just paid $4 billion for an Israeli company and a few days later Hezbollah rockets were landing outside its parking lot. 
 Buffett just brushed it off with a wave, recalled Wertheimer: ''He said, 'I'm not interested in the next quarter. I'm interested in the next 20 years.' '' Wertheimer repaid that confidence by telling half his employees to stay home during the war and using the other half to keep the factory from not missing a day of work and setting a production record for the month. It helps when many of your ''employees'' are robots that move around the buildings, beeping humans out of the way.
 So who would you put your money on? Buffett or Ahmadinejad? I'd short Ahmadinejad and go long Warren Buffett.
 Why? From outside, Israel looks as if it's in turmoil, largely because the entire political leadership seems to be under investigation. But Israel is a weak state with a strong civil society. The economy is exploding from the bottom up. Israel's currency, the shekel, has appreciated nearly 30 percent against the dollar since the start of 2007. 
 The reason? Israel is a country that is hard-wired to compete in a flat world. It has a population drawn from 100 different countries, speaking 100 different languages, with a business culture that strongly encourages individual imagination and adaptation and where being a nonconformist is the norm. While you were sleeping, Israel has gone from oranges to software, or as they say around here, from Jaffa to Java. 
 The day I visited the Iscar campus, one of its theaters was filled with industrialists from the Czech Republic, who were getting a lecture -- in Czech -- from Iscar experts. The Czechs came all the way to the Israel-Lebanon border region to learn about the latest innovations in precision tool-making. Wertheimer is famous for staying close to his customers and the latest technologies. ''If you sleep on the floor,'' he likes to say, ''you never have to worry about falling out of bed.''
 That kind of hunger explains why, in the first quarter of 2008, the top four economies after America in attracting venture capital for start-ups were: Europe $1.53 billion, China $719 million, Israel $572 million and India $99 million, according to Dow Jones VentureSource. Israel, with 7 million people, attracted almost as much as China, with 1.3 billion.
 Boaz Golany, who heads engineering at the Technion, Israel's M.I.T., told me: ''In the last eight months, we have had delegations from I.B.M., General Motors, Procter & Gamble and Wal-Mart visiting our campus. They are all looking to develop R & D centers in Israel.''
 Ahmadinejad professes not to care about such things. He was -- to put it in American baseball terms -- born on third base and thinks he hit a triple. Because oil prices have gone up to nearly $140 a barrel, he feels relaxed predicting that Israel will disappear, while Iran maintains a welfare state -- with more than 10 percent unemployment. 
 Iran has invented nothing of importance since the Islamic Revolution, which is a shame. Historically, Iranians have been a dynamic and inventive people -- one only need look at the richness of Persian civilization to see that. But the Islamic regime there today does not trust its people and will not empower them as individuals. 
 Of course, oil wealth can buy all the software and nuclear technology you want, or can't develop yourself. This is not an argument that we shouldn't worry about Iran. Ahmadinejad should, though.
 Iran's economic and military clout today is largely dependent on extracting oil from the ground. Israel's economic and military power today is entirely dependent on extracting intelligence from its people. Israel's economic power is endlessly renewable. Iran's is a dwindling resource based on fossil fuels made from dead dinosaurs. 
 So who will be here in 20 years? I'm with Buffett: I'll bet on the people who bet on their people -- not the people who bet on dead dinosaurs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); HEZBOLLAH (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (83%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (91%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



200 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Giving Young French Muslims a Close Look at the U.S.

BYLINE: By KATRIN BENNHOLD

DATELINE: CLICHY-SOUS-BOIS, France 

 BODY:
For Karim Zeribi, the highlight was shaking the hand of Barack Obama. For Ali Zahi, it was meeting his childhood hero, the basketball star Magic Johnson. And Mohamed Hamidi was surprised to find a mosque in Washington that was bigger than the one in his parents' village in Algeria.
 Mr. Hamidi is a well-known blogger, Mr. Zahi is a mayoral aide in this Paris suburb, and Mr. Zeribi runs an employment agency. All are French, Muslim and under 42. All grew up and work in suburbs that became emblematic of the frustration among second- and third-generation immigrant youths that led to three weeks of riots in France in 2005. 
 And all three joined the small but growing ranks of influential Muslims in Europe invited to the United States on 21-day trips organized by the State Department as part of its International Visitor Leadership Program. 
 The longstanding program, which seeks to introduce future leaders from around the world to the United States, has become part of an American effort to reach out to Europe's Muslims, especially the disaffected young people who American officials fear could fall prey to jihadist talk.
 For the three men who participated in the program in recent months, the exposure to America softened views of a superpower generally distrusted and disliked in their communities.
 ''Many young people think that America is waging a war on Muslims,'' said Mr. Zahi, 32, chief of staff for the mayor of Clichy-sous-Bois, where the 2005 rioting started after the deaths of two teenagers of African origin who were being chased by the police. 
 ''I tell them America is many things,'' said Mr. Zahi, who is also on his local town council. ''It is a country that has a black presidential candidate and a self-confident Muslim community. I tell them the American people are hospitable and generous.''
 But recent reports about the State Department program have also stoked something of a backlash, with some in the news media accusing the participants of being seduced by a program meant to spy on the Muslim community. 
 The International Visitor program started in the 1930s. Alumni include President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain. 
 After the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks -- and the discovery that they were planned by Islamists who lived in Hamburg, Germany -- the State Department made reaching out to Europe's Muslims a priority, according to James L. Bullock, director of public affairs at the United States Embassy in Paris. 
 France became one focus because of the size of its Muslim community -- the largest in Western Europe, with an estimated five million people -- and the anger at discrimination and unemployment that was evidenced in the riots. From 25 to 30 French citizens are chosen each year to go to the United States under the program; since the 2005 riots, about a dozen have been Muslim. 
 Mr. Bullock said the number of Muslims is larger than before, part of the effort to reach minorities for whom ''America has become a voodoo doll.'' Beyond ''delegitimizing the appeal of terrorist recruiters,'' Mr. Bullock said, the tours are a way for some Americans to become acquainted with ''the future movers and shakers of Europe.''
 The United States is trying to reach out to France's suburbs in other ways as well, by directing some of its small cultural grants to those communities. The embassy has provided grants of $1,000 to $5,000 for events like a conference aimed at identifying new-media talent in the suburbs, Mr. Bullock said. 
 But even this modest American effort has raised concerns in France. One television documentary on America's cultural programs in the suburbs and the visitor program included the headline: ''The C.I.A. in the suburbs.'' And the left-leaning magazine Marianne warned of an ''American takeover of Arabs and blacks.''
 Mr. Zahi, whose trip last fall took him to Texas, Arkansas, Oregon, Washington, D.C., and New York, said he had felt a backlash. When the newspaper Le Parisien, which is widely read in the suburbs, wrote about his trip, the article appeared opposite one alleging that the Central Intelligence Agency was recruiting in the suburbs and a cartoon of a Muslim using an American flag as his prayer mat. After that, several people accused him of being a spy, Mr. Zahi said.
 The French government has conducted similar programs with the United States. When a spike in anti-Semitic vandalism in France drew widespread coverage in American news media in 2002, the French Foreign Ministry sought young Jewish leaders and journalists for its visitor program, said Justin Vaisse, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who at the time was an adviser to the French Foreign Ministry. ''Often,'' he said, ''it is just a matter of showing people that the country is more complex than a media cliche.'' 
 Mr. Zeribi, 41, who in addition to running the employment agency is a politician in Marseille, and Mr. Hamidi, 35, the editor of the popular Bondy Blog, returned from the United States last month. 
 ''It was not all pretty,'' Mr. Hamidi said, describing rough parts of Washington and visible poverty on the streets of New York City. 
 But he and Mr. Zeribi were impressed to see people of every color in government offices in Washington. In Los Angeles, they met a Saudi-American teacher preparing to run in local elections. In Jackson, Miss., they spent half a day patrolling with a black police officer.
 After shaking Mr. Obama's hand at a political rally in Philadelphia, Mr. Hamidi shared the experience on his blog, which covers current affairs. 
 Mr. Zeribi, the son of an Algerian father and an Algerian-French mother, said that he had always thought America's minorities culturally isolated, but that the trip changed his view. 
 ''I saw the American Dream with my own eyes,'' he said. ''Barack Obama incarnates that dream.'' Mr. Zeribi said that he, like Mr. Obama, had one Muslim grandmother and one Christian grandmother. 
 ''I'm not naive,'' said Mr. Hamidi, who besides his work on the blog is a high school teacher. ''I know why they invited us, but this was not clumsy lobbying. It was fun and we learned a lot.''
 He has watched first-hand the growth of anti-American sentiment in recent years, he said. Some of his students became intrigued by jihadist ideology in the 1990s, he said, then turned against America in 2003 after the start of the Iraq war. A factor continuing to fuel anti-Americanism, he said, is the perception that Washington's unstinting support of Israel is unfair to the Palestinians. 
 All three men said that as a result of participating in the program they had learned as much about France and its prejudices as they had about the United States. 
 Mr. Zahi and Mr. Zeribi contend that the backlash in the French media was stoked by anti-immigrant feelings. ''It would be funny if it wasn't so serious, people saying we are agents,'' Mr. Zeribi said. ''When did anyone ever accuse any of the white French politicians on that program of working for the C.I.A.?''
 Mr. Zahi said that French elites, unlike Americans, had trouble imagining members of minority groups as future leaders. ''Maybe that is why some of the reactions in the French establishment were so paranoid when they learned that America is doing something for the French suburbs,'' he said. ''Maybe they are afraid of a French Obama.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ali Zahi, left, with friends last month in his childhood neighborhood in Bondy, France. He toured the United States last fall.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD HARBUS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE)
 Karim Zeribi meeting Barack Obama in Philadelphia this spring. Mr. Zeribi called the moment the highlight of his visit.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMED HAMIDI) MAP: In 2005, rioting erupted in suburbs like Clichy-sous-Bois. Map details area of Clichy-sous-Bois. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RIOTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BASKETBALL (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (71%); CITIES (71%); SUBURBS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); TERRORISM (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (55%); GORDON BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (94%); ALGERIA (92%); GERMANY (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008

 
