

401 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 15361 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
Transcript of Second Televised Debate Between Clinton and Dole

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Following is last night's debate in San Diego between President Clinton and Bob Dole, as transcribed by the Federal Document Clearing House, a private transcription service. The moderator was Jim Lehrer of PBS and questions were asked by San Diego area voters selected by the Gallup polling organization.
 
MODERATOR The order for this evening was set by coin toss. We begin now with Senator Dole and his opening statement.
Senator Dole.
 
DOLE Thank you very much, Jim. 
 Let me first give you a sports update. The Braves 1, Cardinals nothing -- early on.
I want to thank you, and I want to thank everybody here tonight. And I want a special thanks to my wife, Elizabeth, my daughter, Robin, for their love and support, and thank the people who are listening or watching all over America.
In 20 days, you will decide who will lead this country into the next century. It's an awesome responsibility, and you must ask yourself, do you know enough about the candidates? You should know as much as possible about each of us.
Sometimes the views have been distorted, and millions and millions of dollars in negative advertising spent distorting my views. But I hope tonight you'll get a better feel of who Bob Dole is and what he's all about.
But I think first, you should ---- I should understand that the question on your mind is, do I understand your problem? But I understand that if it occurred to me, and I might just say that I'm from a large family. I got lots of relatives. And they're good, average middle-class, hard-working Americans. They live all across the country. They're not all Republicans. Maybe all but one.
But in any event, I understand the problems. Whether it's two parents working because one has to pay the taxes and one has to provide for the family, whether it's a single parent who just barely pays the pressing bills, or whether you're worried about an education for your children, going to the best schools, or whether you're worried about safe playgrounds, drug-free schools, crime-free schools.
This is what this election is all about.
 And hopefully tonight when we conclude this debate, you will have a better understanding, and the viewing and listening audience will have a better understanding.
Thank you.
MODERATOR Mr. President, two minutes, opening statement.
 
CLINTON I was going to clap, too.
Well thank you, Jim, and thanks to the people of San Diego for giving us this opportunity to have another discussion about the decision we all face in front of people who will make the decision.
Again, I will say I'll do my best to make this a discussion of ideas and issues and not insults. What really matters is what happens to your future and what happens to our country as we stand on the brink of a new century, a time of extraordinary possibility.
I have a simple philosophy that I've tried to follow for the last four years: Do what creates opportunity for all, what reinforces responsibility from all of us; and what will help us build a community where everybody's got a role to play and a place at the table.
Compared to four years ago, we're clearly better off. We've got 10.5 million more jobs. The deficit's been reduced by 60 percent. Incomes are rising for the first time in a decade.
The crime rates, the welfare rolls are falling. We're putting 100,000 more police on the street. Sixty thousand felons, fugitives and stalkers have been denied handguns.
But that progress is only the beginning.What we really should focus on tonight is what we still have to do to help the American people make the most of this future that's out there.
I think what really matters is what we can do to help build strong families.
Strong families need a strong economy. To me that means we have to go on and balance this budget while we protect Medicare and Medicaid and education and the environment.
We should give a tax cut, targeted to child rearing and education, to buying a first home and paying for health care. We ought to help protect our kids from drugs and guns and gangs and tobacco. We ought to help move a million people from welfare to work. We ought to create the finest education system in the world where every 18-year-old can go on to college and all of our younger children have great, educational opportunities.
If we do those things, we can build that bridge to the 21st century. That's what I hope to get to talk about tonight.
Thank you.
 
Being Presidential
MODERATOR All right. Let's go now to the first question, from this section. And it's for Senator Dole.
Yes, Ma'am, yes?
 
Q. Hello, Senator Dole.
 
DOLE Hi.
 
Q. My name is Shannon McAfee. I'm a beginning educator in this country. And I really think it's important what children have to say. They're still very idealistic. And everything they say comes from the heart.
I have a quote for you from "If I Were President," compiled by Peggy Gavin.
A sixth-grader says: "If I were President I would think about Abraham Lincoln and George Washington and what they did to make our country great.
"We should unite the white and black people and people of all cultures. Democrats and Republicans should unite also. We should all come together and think of the best ways to solve the economic problems of our country.
"I believe that when we are able to come together and stop fighting amongst ourselves, we will get along a lot better."
These are the ideals and morals that we are trying to teach our children in these days. Yet, we don't seem to be practicing them in our Government, in anything. If you are President, how will you begin to practice what we are preaching to our children, the future of our nation?
 
DOLE Well, I'd like to say first of all, I think it's a very good question. I appreciate the quote from the young man.
There's no doubt about it that many American people have lost their faith in government. They see scandals almost on a daily basis. They see ethical problems in the White House today. They see 900 F.B.I. files, private person, being gathered up somebody in the White House. Nobody knows who hired this man. So, there's a great deal of cynicism out there.
But, I've always tried in whatever I've done is to bring people together. I said in my acceptance speech in San Diego about two months ago, the exits are clearly marked if you think the Republican Party is someplace for you to come if you're narrow-minded or bigoted or don't like certain people in America. The exits are clearly marked for you to walk of, as I stand here without compromise because this is the party of Lincoln.
I think we have a real obligation. Obviously, public officials. I'm no longer a public official. I left public life on June 11 of this year.
But it is very important. Young people are looking to us. They're looking to us for leadership. They are watching what we do, what we say, what we promise and what we finally deliver.
And I would think, it seems to me, that there are opportunities here.
When I am President of the United States, I will keep my word. My word is my bond.
 
MODERATOR Mr. President?
 
CLINTON One of the reasons that I ran for President, Sandy, is because not just children, a lot of grown-ups felt that way. And if you remember four years ago we had not only rising unemployment, but a lot of rising cynicism.
I'd never worked in Washington as an elected official. It seemed to me that most of the arguments were partisan, Republican, Democrat, left, right, liberal, conservative. That's why I say tonight I'm for opportunity, responsibility and community.
And we've gotten some real progress in the last four years. I've also done everything I could at every moment of the vision in this country, after Oklahoma City, when these churches were burned, to bring people together and remind people that we are stronger because of our diversity. We have to respect one another.
You mention Washington and Lincoln. They were Presidents at historic times. This is an historic time.
It's important that we go beyond those old partisan arguments and focus on people and their future. When we do that, instead of shutting the government down over a partisan fight on the budget, we're a better country and that's why we're making progress now.
 
MODERATOR Senator?
 
DOLE Well, bringing people together again is obviously a responsibility we all have.
I know you do it. Everybody here does it. You do a lot of things nobody knows about.
I have a little foundation for the disabled called the Dole Foundation. We've raised about $10 million. We don't talk about it. We try to help people with disabilities, bring them back into the mainstream of public life.
So it seems to me that there's also a public trust. When you're the President of the United States, you have a public trust. And you have to keep that public trust, as George Washington, as Abraham Lincoln did.
And I think now that trust is being violated, and it seems to me we ought to face up to it. And the President ought to say tonight that he's not going to pardon anybody that he was involved in business with who might implicate him later on.
 
Health Care
MODERATOR All right. The next question from this section right here -- right there in the middle, sir.
Yes, sir?
 
Q. Dr. Robert Berkeley. I'm a cardiologist from Fallbrook, Calif. Mr. President, I'd like to know if you'd please explain your plans for -- in a substantive fashion -- for addressing the problems with the health care system in our country.
 
CLINTON I will.
First of all, let me say what we have done. In the last four years, we've worked hard to promote more competition to bring down the rate of inflation in health care costs without eroding health care quality. The government pays for Medicare and Medicaid, as you know, and that's very important.
Secondly, we've added a million more children to the ranks of the insured through the Medicaid program. We have protected 25 million people through the passage of the Kennedy-Kassebaum Bill that says you can't lose your health insurance if you change jobs or if someone in your family has been sick.
We just recently ended those drive-by deliveries, saying people couldn't be kicked out of the hospital by insurance companies when they just had babies.
So this is -- that's a good start. In the next four years, I want to focus on the following things:
No. 1, add another million children to the insured ranks for the Medicaid program.
No. 2, keep working with the states, as we are now, to add 2.2 million more people to the insured system.
No. 3, cover people who are between jobs for up to six months. That could protect three million families, 700,000 kids.
And No. 4, make sure we protect the integrity of the Medicare program and the Medicaid program, and not do anything in cutting costs which would cause hundreds of hospitals to close, as could have been the case if the $270 billion Medicare cut that I vetoed had been enacted into law.
MODERATOR Senator Dole?
DOLE Well, first let me say, there you go again, Mr. President, talking about a Medicare cut. Now I've heard you say this time after time.
And I've heard you say on TV appearances, the media made me do it. You're trying to defend your cut, which was not a cut either -- reduction in the growth of spending.
And we always had at least 7 percent. You've said publicly that it's now three times the rate of inflation. We ought to cut the growth to twice the rate of inflation. It's about where we are now. So let's stop talking about cutting Medicare. And my economic plan will increase it 39 percent.
Don't forget what he tried to do with health care. Seventeen new taxes, spend $1.5 trillion. Fifty new bureaucracies? Can you believe that? You couldn't even have been a cardiologist, because he had quotas. You couldn't -- you're cardiologist -- it wouldn't affect you.
But if somebody wanted to be a cardiologist 10 years from now, you'd have to be certain you complied with some of the rules in this extreme medical plan the government is going to take over for all Americans.
There are things we can do, like the Kassebaum Bill, changed many provisions which I authored, cover pre-existing ---- portability. And there are other things we can do. We still need to cover about 20 million people and a lot of children.
CLINTON I don't have time in 30 seconds to respond to fix all that. But let me just say the American Hospital Association said that the budget I vetoed could have closed 700 hospitals, not me. And on a per-person basis, it did cut way below the rate of inflation and medical costs.
But the important thing is what are we going to do now. We need to help people who are between jobs. We need to cover more kids. We need to provide more preventive care. My balanced budget covers mammograms for ladies, women on Medicare, and also gives respite care to the million plus families who have someone with Alzheimer's.
These things are paid for in the balanced budget plan. It'll move us forward.

Equal Pay Scales
MODERATOR Next question is for Senator Dole from here. Yes, sir?
Q. Senator Dole. Active duty military and small business owner. And my question is, what is your position on closing the gap between military and civilian pay scales?
DOLE I appreciate that very much, being a former military man myself.
You know, we have 17,000 men and women today wearing our uniform that receive food stamps. It shouldn't happen in America. We have men and women wearing our uniform in substandard housing. It shouldn't happen in America.
And it's time we take a look at the pay scales. You did get a 3 percent increase this year but that's not enough. If we're going to ask young men and young women to protect us and defend us around the world -- and we've had more deployments under this Administration than any time in history. Fifty times we deployed troops around the world. Every time you do that you take a risk -- somebody you know, maybe your son, maybe your grandson, maybe somebody else. But I think anybody who wears the uniform is a great American.
Remember Vietnam? Remember when people almost used to walk across the street rather than have contact with somebody who was in Vietnam?
That's all behind us now and it should be behind us, and the forgotten war, the Korean War. But I guess, I can just answer you very plainly, Jason, thank you for doing what you're doing. America owes you a debt of gratitude.
 
CLINTON May I ask you a question? What kind of -- what service are you in?
 
Q.I'm in the United States Navy, sir.
 
CLINTON And what kind of small business are you in?
 
Q. I have an Amway business.
 
CLINTON Good for you.
 Let me say, Senator Dole mentioned this, I just signed a bill that we got through Congress to increase the amount of pay increase we could give for military personnel and to make sure the pay increase this year was above the rate of inflation. I also had presented to the Congress and they adopted a large package of quality of life improvements which were very important. I spent a lot of time talking to military families as well as military members all over the world and in bases all across the United States.
And I became convinced after talking to the families and the personnel in uniform that we needed to not only have the pay raise, but we needed to invest more in child care, housing and other things to support families especially, when there are longer deployments because of the downsizing of the military. So, we're going to do better and we'll do better still. This a commitment, I think, that all Americans share without regard to party.
 
DOLE Well, Jason I don't disagree with the President said except, he waited four years to do these things. And my view is it ought to be done on Day One. We'll start working on it on Day One in the Dole-Kemp Administration.
We only have 10 divisions now. We used to have 18. We have 25 fighter wings, we're down to 13. We have 536 ships, we're down 336 ships. I mean, we've cut defense spending too much in the first place. The President told you in '92 he would cut it $67 billion. He cut $112 billion.
We're right on the edge right now. The last thing we ought to do is make those who wear the uniforms sacrifice.
 
Middle East
MODERATOR Next question here for President Clinton.
Yes ma'am here on the front row.
 
Q. President Clinton my name is Cecily Kelly. Yesterday, Yasir Arafat said in Palestine that he thinks the key to success in the Middle East is the commitment of Americans. Would you, as President, send American troops to Israel or the West Bank as peace keepers?
 
CLINTON Let me just take two seconds of my time because I'm the Commander in Chief to respond to one thing that was said.
I propose to spend $1.6 trillion on defense between now and the year 2002. And there's less than 1 percent difference between my budget and the Republican budget on defense.
Now, on the Middle East, as you know, I've worked very hard for peace in the Middle East. The agreement between the Palestinians and the Israelis was signed at the White House.
And the agreement -- the peace treaty with Jordan, I was -- went to Jordan to sign that, to be there.
But -- and I think the United States can do whatever we reasonably can. I can say this, I do not believe Yasir Arafat wants us to send troops to the West Bank. We have never been asked to send troops to the West Bank.
I saw the agreement that Prime Minister Rabin and Yasir Arafat signed on the West Bank. It had 26 separate maps they had to sign, literally thousands of delineations of who would do what on the West Bank.
And I believe if the parties will get together and in a good-faith manner make that agreement, that they'll be able to do it.
If ---- We cannot impose a peace on the Middle East.
My position has always been that the job of the United States was to minimize the risks of peace. You know, if they ask me to be part of some monitoring force, as we are in the Sinai and have been since 1978, to monitor the peace between Egypt and Israel, frankly I would have to think about it.
I would have to see what they wanted to do. But I don't believe that will be the request. I think what Mr. Arafat wants us to do is make sure that everybody honors the agreements they've already made.
That's why I brought the leaders to Washington a few days ago. I think they will, and I think we'll get there.

Don't be too discouraged.
 
DOLE Let me, Jason, come back to you a minute because there is a big difference in the defense budget. We had $7 billion this year and $10 billion more than the President. He puts his money in the out years. Even if he were re-elected, he'd be gone before anything happened, and nothing is going to happen because we don't have modernization now. If we don't build more B-2 bombers in California -- we lost about 500,000 jobs out in California because of this devastation, these big, big cuts. We had to make cuts, didn't have to make the cuts the President promised he'd make, then he doubled.
And so I think we need to go back and take a look. We're increasing defense reasonably, not too much, but we are increasing defense some because we want to be prepared in case somebody here gets called up, Jason.
I would say I didn't hear what Yasir Arafat had to say, but I don't want to -- I think foreign policy -- I'm going to be very careful about. And I'm not here to argue about the President and some ongoing foreign policy matter. What I want the President to do -- I think he may have done it in his last statement -- call for an unconditional end of the violence and have the parties keep on talking as they should talk, and have a resolution. The last thing we want to do is commit more forces anywhere.
But let's sort of keep this out of politics because it's pretty dicey right now.
 
CLINTON When the change of government occurred in Israel, the people of Israel were saying we don't want to abandon the peace process. We want more security. Then a lot of mutual distrust developed, a lot of things happened which maybe shouldn't have happened.
When I asked Yasir Arafat and Prime Minister Netanyahu to come to Washington, and got them together and they talked alone for three hours, I was convinced that they had to have a chance to make their peace.
Again, I'd say if they ask us to play some reasonable role, I don't know I would respond. It would depend entirely on what they ask us to do. But the real secret there is for them to abide by the agreements they've made and find a way to trust each other. And they're going to have spend some time and trust each other.
Prime Minister Rabin gave his life believing that that trust could be materialized. And I still think it can be.
 
Smoking
MODERATOR All right, next question from this section, and it is for Senator Dole. Back in the back. Yes, sir, right there. Yes, sir.
 
Q. Senator Dole, Oscar Delgado.
 
DOLE Oscar?
 
Q. An ex-smoker for 30 years.
About 30 years ago, I was a pipe-plus a day man, O.K.? You mentioned in a statement you said some time ago that you didn't think nicotine was addictive. Would you care to -- are you still -- hold to that statement, or do you wish to recant, or explain yourself?
 
DOLE Oh, that's very easy. My record going back to 1965 in the Congress, the first vote we had was whether or not you should put a little notice on cigarettes, they may be danger -- I voted for it.
I voted for everything since that time. In fact, 1992, we had a bill come before us that all of the states had to comply, or they're going to lose certain money. We sent it to the Clinton Administration for implementation.
They waited three-and-a-half years. And during that period, about 3,000 young kids every day started smoking.
So, you add it up. That's about three million. Not until again in 1996 -- I don't want anybody to smoke. My brother probably died partly because of cigarettes.
I was asked a technical question: "Are they addictive?" Maybe they're -- they probably are addictive. I don't know. I'm not a doctor. You shouldn't smoke. You ought to be glad you quit. Thirty years? Yes. And it seems to me that what we need to do is to talk about, not only tobacco, but drugs.
Because drug use between 12- and 17-year-olds has doubled in this administration, the last 44 months. Marijuana use is up 141 percent; cocaine use up 160 percent. They're your kids. It's all happened in this administration because they cut funding. And they cut interdiction.
When I'm President of the United States we're going to use the National Guard and whatever sources we need to stop some of the drugs coming into America. If you stop the drugs, nobody's going to use the drugs.
So, don't smoke. Don't drink. Don't use drugs. Just don't do it.
 
CLINTON Oscar, the question of what the Federal Government should do to limit the access of tobacco to young people is one of the biggest differences between Senator Dole and me.
We did propose a regulation six months after I became President under the law he mentioned. It simply says to all these state -- it made it illegal for kids to smoke. Now, they had to try harder if they want to keep getting Federal funds.
Then we took comments as we always do. And there were tens of thousands of comments about how we ought to do it. That's what drug it out.
Meanwhile, we started, also in '93, to look into whether cigarettes were addictive enough for the Federal Food and Drug Administration to ban the availability of cigarette company to advertise, market and distribute tobacco products to our kids.
No President had ever taken on the tobacco lobby before. I did. Senator Dole opposed me. He went down and made a speech who were on his side saying that I did the wrong thing.
I think I did the right thing.
On drugs, I have repeatedly said drugs are wrong and illegal and can kill you. We have strengthened enforcement. And everybody in San Diego knows we have strengthened control of the border. We've done a lot more and I hope we get a chance to talk about it.
 
DOLE Well, they also know if they live in San Diego, Mr. President, if you're caught with 125 pounds of marijuana or less, you go back to Mexico. You're not prosecuted. You have a U.S. attorney here that sends them back home. So I think that's pretty important. That's a lot of marijuana. That's a big supply.
But don't, you know, don't get into this smoke screen. The President in the election year decided well I ought to do something. I haven't done anything on drugs. I've been AWOL for 44 months so let's take on smoking. But see, they haven't even done it. They haven't said what's going to happen, whether they're going to have it declared addictive. It's going to apply just to -- if once it's a drug, does it apply only to teenagers or to everybody in America?
Nobody should smoke, young or old. But particularly young people should not smoke. And my record is there, it's been there. I voted 8, 10 times since 1965.
 
Government Benefits
MODERATOR Next question is for President Clinton and it comes right here.
Yes, sir?
Q. President Clinton, my name's Jack Flack. I'm a retired Air Force pilot.
 Sir, it's officially forecast that our annual Medicare and Social Security deficits are measured in the trillions of dollars next century.
Depending upon who you listen to, Social Security will be bankrupt in the year 2025 or 2030. I feel this is grossly unfair, especially to our younger generations who are losing faith in the system.
My question is this: assuming you agree that our entitlement programs are on an unsustainable course, what specific reforms do you propose?
 
CLINTON First of all, they are two different things. Social Security and Medicare are entirely different in terms of the financial stabilities. Let's talk about them separately.
Social Security is stable until, as you pointed out, at least the third decade of the next century. But we'd like to have a Social Security fund that has about 70 years of life instead of about 30 years of life.
What we have to do is simply to make some adjustments to take account of the fact that the baby boomers, people like me, are bigger in number than the people that went just before and the people that come just after us.
And I think what we'll plainly do is what we did in 1983, when Senator Dole served -- and this is something I think he did a good job on -- when he served on the Social Security Commission, and they made some modest changes in Social Security to make sure that it would be alive and well into the 21st century.
And we will do that. It's obvious that there are certain things that have to be done, and there are 50 or 60 different options. And a bipartisan commission to take it out of politics will make recommendations and build support for the people.
Medicare is different. Medicare needs help now. I have proposed the budget which would put 10 years on the life of the Medicare Trust Fund.
That's more than it's had a lot of the time for the last 20 years. It would save a lot of money through more managed care. But giving more options, more preventive care and lowering the inflation rates in the prices we're paying providers without having the kind of big premium increases and out-of-pocket costs that the budget I vetoed would provide.
Then, that will give us 10 years to do with Medicare what we're going to do with Social Security -- Have a bipartisan group look at what we have to do to save it when the baby boomers retire. But now, we ought to pass this budget now and put tenures on it right away so no one has to worry about it.
DOLE Well again, it appears somebody thinking about the future. I think, it's fair to say that it'll be -- we'll work it out.
I mean, this a political year. And the President's playing politics with Medicare. But after this year's over, we'll resolve it just as we did with Social Security in 1983. It was a nonpartisan commission.
Ronald Reagan got together with Tip O'Neill and Howard Baker, two Republicans and one Democrat. They appointed a commission. I was on that commission. We resolved -- we rescued Social Security.
We suggested, I think it's been over a year ago now, we do the same with Medicare. The White House called it a gimmick. Now, last week I guess it was, Donna Shalala said well, we'll cut Medicare $100 billion and we'll appoint a commission.
It'll probably have to be done by a commission. Take it out of politics. I think, if I were a senior citizen, I'd be a little fed up with all these ads scaring seniors, scaring veterans, and scaring students about education.
If you don't have any ideas, if you don't have any agenda and all you have is fear, that's all you can use. We have ideas in the Dole-Kemp campaign.
And we'll rescue Medicare as we did Social Security.
 
CLINTON Their idea was to have the poorest seniors in the country pay $270 more a year this year. Their idea was a budget that the American Hospital Association said could close 700 hospitals.
Their idea was to charge everybody more out-of-pocket costs in their budget that I vetoed, not in an election year, sir. I told them in early '95.
Senator Dole said 30 years ago he was one of 12 people that voted against Medicare. And he was proud of it. A year ago he said, I was right then. I knew it wouldn't work.
American seniors have the highest life expectancy in the world. We need to reform it, not wreck it.
 
Changing Welfare
MODERATOR Next question from here, and it's for Senator Dole.
Yes, Ma'am, right here.
 
Q. Me?
 
MODERATOR Yes.
 
Q. Senator Dole, my name is Suzanne Gonzalez and I would like to know what you are -- what would be your first step in reforming welfare.
 
DOLE Well, we've taken the first step; took three steps. Twice we sent welfare reform to the President and he vetoed it.
 On the third time we sent welfare reform to the President, he signed it, but announced he would change it next year. And the Vice President said they were going to do something else through the line-item veto, which I've never understood. But that's sort of inside baseball.
What we need to do is make certain we try to return people to work. And I'm standing here as someone who a long time ago, as a county attorney in Russell, Kansas -- one of our jobs every month was to go through all the welfare checks and sign them.
And three of those checks for my grandparents. So I know what it's like to have to look welfare head-on.
Obviously, some people are going to need help. This is the United States of America. You're not going to go without food, and you're not going to go without medical care. This is America.
But at the same time, if you want to get off Medicare, get back in the mainstream, we're going to provide jobs.
We're going to say you have a five-year limit that you can be on welfare. You get two years to look for a job. We've provided more money for day care in the bill that passed the Senate. It was vetoed, then it came back, then the President signed pretty much the same bill.
But this is an important issue. I don't think we ought to be giving welfare payments to illegal immigrants when it puts a heavy burden on a state like -- except for emergencies -- puts a heavy burden on states like California. It costs California taxpayers $3 billion a year.
 
MODERATOR President Clinton?
 
DOLE I'll get out of your way here.
 
CLINTON It's illegal right now, and has been for years for illegal immigrants to get welfare benefits. Let me say that this is one of the most important issues in the world to me.
I started working on welfare reform in 1980, because I was sick of seeing people trapped in a system that was increasingly physically isolating them and making their kids more vulnerable to getting in trouble.
So I've been working on it when I was a governor for a long time. When I became President, I used the authority I had in this law to get out from under certain Federal rules to help states move people to work. We've reduced the welfare rolls by two million already.
Now, I've got a plan with this new welfare reform law to work with the private sector, to give employers specific tax incentives to hire people off welfare and to do some other things which will create more jobs in the private sector -- at least a million -- to move more people from welfare to work.
It's very important, and I hope we get a chance to talk about this more. There is not a more important issue.
I still remember a woman that I met 10 years ago who said she wanted to get off welfare so her kids could tell -- give an answer when they say, what does your mother do for a job?
I met that woman again. She's got four kids. One's got a good job. One's studying to be a doctor. One's in technical school. One's an honor student in high school.
I want to make more people like that woman, Lilly Harden. So I've got a plan to do it, and it's just beginning.
 
MODERATOR Senator?
 
DOLE Well, another thing we can do, we talk about growth. We've got a great economic package, which I hope we'll discuss later.
Across the board tax cut, child credits -- $500 per child under 18 -- reduce the capital gains rate, create more jobs and opportunities for people on and off welfare.
We have other provisions -- less litigation. The trial lawyers, big supporters of the President. The trial lawyers, of course, they like lawsuits. So every time they have a bill that they want to veto, the President vetoes it for them.
We've got to understand in America that we've got to have growth, create more jobs and more opportunities in the private sector. The President takes credit for all these off people welfare?
The governors did that. The Federal Government doesn't do that. And a government doesn't create jobs. They're created in the private sector.
 
Capital Gains
MODERATOR This section, question? Yes, ma'am on the back row. It's for the President.
 
Q. Mr. President, my name is Pamela Johnson, and I'm a landlord.
My question is, does your party have any future plans to reduce the capital gains tax, especially for retired Americans?
 
CLINTON First of all, we have a big plan to reduce capital gains tax when people sell their homes.
Part of my tax package, which is paid for in my balanced budget plan, would exempt up to half a million dollars in gains from people when they sell their homes, which I think is the biggest capital gains benefit we could give to most ordinary Americans. We also have a capital gains now for people that invest in new small businesses and hold the investment for five years, that was part of our other economic plan. And these are things I think that will go a long way toward helping America build a stronger economy and a better tax system.
I think the most important thing to emphasize though is that we also have to help people in other ways to build a stronger economy, and we can't have any tax cut that's not paid for. One of the big differences between Senator Dole and myself is that I told you how I'm going to pay for every penny of the tax cuts I recommend. We worked hard to bring this deficit down and that's helped people in the real estate.
Because the interest rates are lower, we've got homeownership at a 15 year high. We've got this country going in the right direction.
So we can have a tax cut but my priority would be to help the families who need it with child-rearing and education and buying a first-time home and helping for health care costs. So from your business, helping and buying the first-time home, exempting the capital gains on the sale of the home would be the most important things that you asked about.
Thank you, Pamela.
MODERATOR Mr. Dole.
DOLE Well, Pamela, what the President didn't tell you is that all his tax cuts expire at the year 2000, that all his increases go on forever. That's the liberal approach, you know, give you a little tax cut. Give you a couple of years and make the tax increases go on forever.
So, the next tax increase in his plan is somewhere between $60 and $80 billion. We have in the Dole-Kemp economic plan, unless your home is worth over $500,000, and if it is, I'd appreciate it, congratulate you. But in any event, no tax.
If it's a good idea, they saw and they picked it up and they put it in theirs. But it's only temporary. Ours is permanent.
Ours is good plan -- create jobs and opportunities. Capital gains rate, cut it in half, cut it 28 percent to 14 percent. There's $7 trillion in assets locked up in America. If we cut the capital gains rate, I'm told every day -- I got a letter from a former constituent in Kansas saying I want to sell property in California, put it in my business in Kansas. I can't because the capital gains rate is too high.
We need to get the economy going. That will help Social Security. That will create more jobs and it will help people who want to get off welfare. It's the American way.
CLINTON Before Senator Dole left the Senate, he and Mr. Gingrich also were recommending that we pass these tax cuts only in so far as we could pay for them. And we all assume that the tax cuts will be permanent, but we have to prove that we can pay for them.
After he left the Senate, we abandoned that. That's why most experts say that this tax scheme will blow a huge hole in the deficit, raise interest rates and weaken the economy and that will take away all the benefits of the tax cut with a weaker economy.
That's why we have to balance the budget. And I'll tell you I'm going to pay for anything I promise you, line by line. You should expect that from both of us.
 
Younger Americans
MODERATOR All right, the next question is for Senator Dole. Yes ma'am, right there.
Q. My name is Melissa Lydeana.
I'm a third-year student at U.C.-San Diego. And I just want to say that it's a great honor representing the voices of America. And my voice -- my question is concerning you, Mr. Dole.
All the controversy regarding your age, how do you feel you can respond to the young voices of America today, and tomorrow?
DOLE Well, I think age is very -- you know, wisdom comes from age, experience and intelligence. And if you have some of each, and I have some age and some experience, some intelligence.
That adds up to wisdom. I think it also is a strength. It's an advantage. And I have a lot of young people working my office, working my campaign.
This is about America. This is about, somebody said earlier, one of the first questions. We're together. It's one America. One nation.
I'm looking at our economic plan, because I'm concerned about the future for young people. I'm looking about drugs. The President's been AWOL for four years.
I'm looking about crime. He'll claim credit now for crime going down, but it happens because mayors and governors and others have brought crime down. Rudy Giuliani, the Mayor of New York, brought crime down 25 percent just in New York City. And of course, the President will take credit for that.
My view is, we want to find jobs and opportunities and education. This year, the Republican Congress, as far as student loans, went from $24 billion to $36 billion over the next six years. A 50 percent increase, the highest appropriation ever. Six billion dollars for Pell grants, very, very important.
We also raised the amount of each Pell Grant.
In our economic plan, the $500 child credit can be used for young people, roll over and over and over. You're -- of course, not this age. But if you have a child two-years-old, seven percent interest would be worth about $18,000 by the time that child was ready for college.
 
CLINTON I can only tell you that I don't think Senator Dole is too old to be President. It's the age of his ideas that I question.
You're almost not old enough to remember this, but we've tried this before, promising people an election-year tax cut that's not paid for ----
 
DOLE You tried it the last time you ran.
 
CLINTON ---- telling you can have everything you got. And, so, let me just say this. You hear him say that Congress just voted to increase student loans and scholarships?
They did. After he left. The last budget he led cut Pell Grants, cut student loans. I vetoed it when they shut the government down.
My plan would give students a dollar-for-dollar reduction for the cost of a typical community college tuition; a $10,000-deduction a year for the cost of college tuition. We'd let families save in an I.R.A. and withdraw tax free to pay for the cost of education. And it's all paid for.
My whole administration is about your future. It's about what the 21 century is going to be like for you. And I hope you'll look at the ideas in it.
Thank you.
 
DOLE Well, when you don't have any ideas, I guess you say the other person's ideas are old. As I said earlier, they don't have any ideas.
Their ideas is to raise taxes and spend more money. That's the liberal philosophy. If that's what you like, you've got a perfect candidate. President Clinton came to California in 1992. He said the centerpiece in my first four years is going to be a middle-class tax cut.
Now, all of you who got that tax cut, congratulations. Because you got a big tax increase. You got a $265 billion tax increase. And he stands here and says politicians who make promises like that ought to be ignored.
Well, he made the promise. I keep my word. And you'll have a tax and it'll help you in whatever you're going to do the next few years. Thank you.
 
Affirmative Action
MODERATOR The next question's for President Clinton and it's from, Yes, ma'am.
 
Q. Hello. My name is Tracy Sanders and my question is do you feel that America has grown enough and has educated itself enough to totally cut out Affirmative Action?
 
CLINTON No ma'am, I don't. I am against quotas. I'm against giving anybody any kind of preference for something they're not qualified for. But, because I still believe that there is some discrimination and that not everybody has an opportunity to prove they're qualified, I favor the right kind of Affirmative Action.
I've done more to eliminate programs -- affirmative action programs -- I didn't think were fair. And to tighten others up than my predecessors have since affirmative action's been around. But, I have also worked hard to give people a chance to prove that they are qualified. Let me just give you some examples.
We've doubled the number of loans from the Small Business Administration, tripled the number of loans to women business people. No one unqualified -- everybody had to meet the standards.
We've opened 260,000 new jobs in the military to women since I've been President. But the Joint Chiefs say we're stronger and more competent and solid than ever.
Let me give you another example of what I mean. For me, affirmative action is making that extra effort. It's sort of like what Senator Dole did when he sponsored the Americans With Disabilities Act and said to certain stores, OK, you've got to make it accessible to people in wheelchairs.
We weren't guaranteeing anything -- anybody anything except the chance to prove they were qualified, the chance to prove that they could do it.
And that's why I must say I agree with Gen. Colin Powell that we're not there yet.
We ought to keep making those extra effort affirmative action programs the law and the policy of the land.
 
MODERATOR Senator Dole?
 
DOLE Well, we may not be there yet, but we're not going to get there by giving preferences and quotas.
I supported that route for some time, and again, I think it gets back to experience -- a little experience, a little age, a little intelligence. And I noticed that nobody was really benefiting except a very small group at the top.
The average person wasn't benefiting. People that had the money were benefiting. People got all the jobs were benefiting.
It seems to me that we ought to support the California Civil Rights Initiative. It ought to be not based on gender or ethnicity or color or disability. I'm disability, and I shouldn't have a preference.
I would like to have one in this race, come to think of it.
But I don't get one. Maybe we can work that out.
I get a 10-point spot.
This is America. No discrimination. Discrimination ought to be punished. But there ought to be equal opportunity, to reach out and make certain everybody has a chance to participate. Equal opportunity. But we cannot guarantee equal results in America.
That's not how America became the greatest country on the face of the earth.
 
CLINTON I have never supported quotas. I've always been against them. I don't favor equal results. But I do favor making sure everybody has a chance to prove they're competent. The reason I have opposed that initiative is because I'm afraid it will end those extra effort programs.
Again I say, think of the Americans With Disabilities Act. Make an effort to put a ramp up there so someone in a wheelchair can get up. You don't guarantee that they get the job. You guarantee they have a chance to prove they're competent.
And, as I said, this is not a partisan thing we me. General Powell, Colin Powell said the same thing. He fears that the initiative would take away the extra effort programs. No preferences to unqualified people. No quotas. But don't give up on making an extra effort until you're sure everybody has a chance to prove they're qualified.
 
Balancing the Budget
MODERATOR All right. The next question is for Senator Dole. And it comes from this section right here, the back row, there in the blue shirt. Yes, sir?
 
Q. I'm a mechanical engineer.
Senator Dole, how do you reduce taxes and balance the budget?
 
DOLE Oh, I'm glad you asked.
 
CLINTON So, am I. And I'm ----

DOLE What's your first name?
Ken? I first want to say the President didn't quite give you all the stuff on quotas. Because the Justice Department entered what we call the Piscataway case up in New Jersey. It's pretty clear that was a quota case.
And just because one teacher was white and one teacher was Black and they had the same qualifications, you know they decided who would stay there. It shouldn't be that way. Now the President can say, well he wants to mend it, not end it. There are 168 Federal programs that allow quotas. He ended one.
Now this economic package -- Tim, I'm glad you asked because you look like the type that might be able to benefit from a 15 percent across the board tax cut. And a $500 per child tax credit, for state tax relief -- but you're not interested in right now. But capital gains, rate reduction, if you're taking care of an elderly parent you get a $1,000 deduction. We think that's very important because a lot of people take care of their parents.
How do pay for it? We're going to have a constitutional amendment to balance the budget which the President opposed and defeated. He twisted arms and got six Democrats to vote with him. We lost by one vote. We're going to balance the budget by the year 2002.
The President wants to spend 20 percent more over the next six years. I want to spend 14 percent more and give that 6 percent back to the people. Remember it's your money. It's not his money. And it's not my money. It's your money. And you shouldn't have to apologize for wanting to keep all you can of it. But he ought to apologize for wanting to take more and more.
He wants to give you sort of a government tax cut which really doesn't mean anything.
 
CLINTON You know one of the responsibilities of growing older it seems to me is being able to tell people something they may not want to hear just because it's truth.
When they had a $250 billion tax scheme that is half the size of this one -- this one's $550 -- they passed a budget that had $270 billion in Medicare cuts, the first education cuts in history, cut environmental enforcement by 25 percent, took away the guarantee of quality standards in nursing homes, took away the guarantee of health care to folks with disabilities.
Don't take my word for this. The Economist magazine polled lots of economists, seven Nobel prizewinners, who said if this tax scheme passes, it will require huge cuts -- 40 percent in the environment and law enforcement and education; will require bigger cuts in Medicare than I vetoed last time.
My targeted tax cut gives tax cuts for education, child-rearing, buying a first-time home, paying for health care costs, and it's paid for. And I told you how I'll pay for it. He won't tell you because he can't.
 
DOLE Your targeted tax cut, Mr. President, never hits anybody. That's the problem with it. Nobody ever gets it. But I -- I must say I'm a little offended by this word scheme. You talked about it last time. You talked about a risky scheme and then Vice President Gore repeated about 10 times in St. Petersburg.
If I have anything in politics, it's my word. My colleagues, Democrats and Republicans, will tell you that Bob Dole kept his word. I'm going to keep my word to you. I'm going to keep my word to the American -- we going to cut taxes and balance the budget. We're not going to touch Medicare. It's going to grow 39 percent and Social Security is going to grow 34 percent.
Now the President doesn't have any ideas, so he's out trashing ours. This isn't going to blow a hole in the deficit. He promised you a tax cut in 1992.
And if you got one, you ought to vote for him.
 
Family Leave
MODERATOR Next question's for the President. Yes, sir, right there. White shirt.
 
Q. My name is Dwayne Burns, I'm a martial arts instructor and a father. Mr. President, could you outline any plans you have to expand the Family Leave Act?
 
CLINTON Thank you. Well, first, let me say that I signed the Family Leave Act. It was my very first bill. And I'm very proud of it because it symbolizes what I think we ought to be doing.
I don't take credit for all the good things that have happened in America, but I take credit for what I've tried to do to work with others to make good things happen.
Most important good things that happen in American happen in families. Just about every family I know, their main concern is how am I going to succeed at work and still do right by my children?
Family and Medical Leave has let 12 million families take a little time off for that birth of a child or a family illness without losing their job. I'd like to see it expanded in two ways.
I'd like to say, you can also take a little time off without losing your job to go to a regular parent-teacher conference or to go to a regular doctor's appointment with a family member.
I'd also like to see the overtime laws changed so that we could have some more flex time so that at the discretion of the worker -- the worker -- if you earn overtime, you could decide whether you want that time to be taken in cash or in time with your family if you've got a family problem.
I never go anywhere, it seems like, where I don't meet somebody who's benefited from the Family Leave Law.
In Longview, Tex., the other day, I met a woman who was almost in tears because she had been able to keep her job while spending time with her husband who had cancer. One of the people who's here with me today, met a woman in an airport saying that her son just was able to be present at the birth his child because of the Family Leave Law. So, yes I think it should be expanded. We have to help people succeed at home and at work.
 
DOLE Well, 88 percent of the people, the President claims, 11 million are already covered. And only five percent, keep in mind only five percent, of the employers are even affected by the Family Leave Act.
We had a better idea. We didn't win. But, we had a better idea. Now, we have majority, we get a President. That was a tax credit to the employer.
Instead of the Federal Government reaching out, we had a tax credit to pick up some of the cost. Because if you have to hire a replacement worker, that's a cost. This is the way it ought to work.
Give more power back to the states and back to the people, back to the tax payers. Not always the long arm of the Federal Government. Keep in mind this bill covers five percent of the employers. Ninety-five percent of the employers and all those employees they employ are not covered in this act.
And according to Investor's Daily which I read just a couple of days ago, 88 percent of the people he claims credit are already covered in collective-bargaining agreements and other agreements.
We had family leave in our office. I'm certain, I see my friend, Senator Mitchell, he had family leave. I work everyday with people. I spend a lot of time in hospitals. I know what's like to be in a hospital. Sure we want family leave. But, there's a better way to do it.
 
CLINTON I only have 30 seconds, I can't fix the statistics.
 
 It covers the majority of the workforce. Employers of under 50 are exempted. The bill originally covered employers of 25 and more. But because of opposition, we went up to 50.
Senator Dole led the opposition to it. He filibustered it. He said it was a mistake. He said it would hurt the economy.
We've had record numbers of new small businesses and 10.5 million jobs. It didn't hurt the economy. He still believes it's a mistake. I believe it was right.
You can decide which of us you think are right. It's up to you.

Domestic Manufacturing
MODERATOR Next question for Senator Dole on this side. Yes, ma'am?
 
Q. Hi, I'm a wife and mother of two sons from Carlsbad. And my question for you, Senator Dole, is as the wife of a San Diego business owner, I see one of our biggest problems in the U.S. does not manufacture enough of our own products.
How would you help this problem out?
 
DOLE Well, right. We've lost 357,000 manufacturing jobs.
And the Bureau of Labor Statistics said today that they made a mistake, it's probably going to be a much, much higher figure.
So we're talking about all these new jobs. We better wait and see what the results are.
We're going to do that with a more aggressive trade policy. We're going to do that with an economic package. We're going to do that with regulatory reform.
You know, regulations cost the average family, right here -- Democrat or Republican -- about $7,000 a year. Seven thousand -- it's like a tax. Put a lot of people out of business.
I met a lady in Colorado Springs about seven weeks ago now. She had a small business with 63 employees. She finally gave it up. Why? Because of paperwork and regulation.
Congress passed the Paperwork Reduction Act. The President exempts the I.R.S. which creates three-fourths the paperwork. We're going to have regulatory -- we're going to have litigation reform. You know I fell off a platform out in California, Chico a while back. Before I hit the ground, my cell phone rang and this trial lawyer says I think we got a case here.
You know, we've got to stop some of these frivolous lawsuits. They're putting people out of business, men and women. Get the economy going. Cut the capital gains rate. Create more jobs and opportunities for everybody in America, that's what we will do. And my word is good. I keep my promises. I don't break my promises after the election. And I don't make new promises on an election year. We're going to get it done. We're going to grow some of these jobs in America because we need to get it. They're going the wrong way.
 
CLINTON Let's look at the facts. We lost a lot of manufacturing jobs in the 12 years before I became President. We've gained manufacturing jobs since I've been President. We've negotiated over 200 separate trade agreements. Let's just take California. In California, we made $37 billion worth of telecommunications equipment eligible for exports for the first time. We're selling everything from telephones to C.D.'s to rice in Japan.
We're selling American automobiles in Japan now. I visited a Chrysler dealership in Japan. We're No. 1 in automobile manufacturing, production and sales around the world again for the first time since the 1970's. Why? Because we've had tough, aggressive trade policies and because we got interest rates down, and we had a good, stable economic policy. Because we've reduced the deficit four years in a row for the first time in the 20th century that a President has done that in all four years.
And that's why I don't want to see us blow a big hole in the deficit with a tax program we can't pay for so your interest rates will go up. And you'll have to pay back in higher interest rates what you allegedly will get in a tax cut.
So, I say, keep working on expanding the markets. More than half of these 10.5 million new jobs are in higher-wage areas. And we'll have more manufacturing and more sales at home and around the world.
 
DOLE You may think the biggest employer in America is General Motors. But I've got news for you. It's Manpower Services, hiring people temporarily who've lost their jobs. They go to work for 30 days or 60 days.
That's a good economy? I don't think so. They're setting new records this year. We have the worst economy in a century. We've had the slowest growth, about 2.5 percent. The President inherited a growth of over 5 percent.
We don't have the S.& L. crisis any more. Republicans have cut $53 billion in spending. That's why the budget can look good. It didn't look too good the first two years when we had a Democratic President and a Democratic Congress.
 
Homosexual Bias
MODERATOR Next question is for President Clinton. Yes, sir?
 
Q. I'm a travel agent. Can you please explain your policy on the employment non-discrimination act that would have prohibited discrimination, would have prohibited people from being fired from their jobs simply for being gay or lesbian.
 
CLINTON I'm for it.
That's my policy. I'm for it. I believe that any law-abiding taxpaying citizen who shows up in the morning and doesn't break the law and doesn't interfere with his or her neighbors ought to have the ability to work in our country and shouldn't be subject to unfair discrimination.
I'm for it.
Now I have a little time left so let me just say that I get attacked so many times on these questions it's hard to answer all of these things.
In February, Senator Dole just said we had the worst economy in a century. In February he said we had the best economy in 30 years -- this was February. And I don't want to respond in kind to all these things. I could. I could answer a lot of these things tit for tat, but I hope we can talk about what we're going to do in the future.
No attack ever created a job or educated a child or helped a family make ends meet. No insult ever cleaned up a toxic-waste dump or helped an elderly person.
Now for four years that's what I worked on. If you'll give me four year more, I'll work on it some more. And I'll try to answer these charges, but I prefer to emphasize direct answers to the future and I gave you a direct answer.
 
MODERATOR Senator Dole?
 
DOLE I am opposed to discrimination in any form, but I don't favor creating special rights for any group. That would be my answer to this question.
And I'm -- there would be special rights for different groups in America -- but I'm totally opposed to discrimination. Don't have any policy against hiring anyone, whether it's life style, or whatever. We don't have any policy of that kind, never have had in my office, or will we have in the future.
But as far as special rights, I am opposed to same-sex marriages, which the President signed well after midnight one morning, in the dark of night -- he proposed it.
Well, I get back to the economic package, because again, I think this is very important. If there's anything that's going to change America, it's get the economy to grow.
The President inherited a good economy, sure. The S.& L. crisis, then they were selling assets, got a Republican Congress cutting spending finally. And he says, be the best four years ever.
That's not true. We had 1.2 million bankruptcies, set a new record. Credit card debt's never been higher. I just told you about this manufacturing job loss, which is going to increase.
We need a good, strong economic package. Let the private sector create the jobs, and they can do it.
 
CLINTON If you believe that the California economy was better in 1992 than it is today, you should vote for Bob Dole. I have worked so hard out here to help turn this economy around.
Let me just give you one tiny example. In San Diego, where we had some defense cutbacks, we funded a project with the University of California, San Diego to use airplane composite materials to build lighter, stronger bridges, a little project in a program that Senator Dole opposed. And that composite now is going to be built around the bridges on the Santa Monica Freeway to help minimize the impact of earthquakes and create more jobs.
That's just one tiny example. I know we'll talk about some more before it's over.

Managed Health Care
MODERATOR Next question's for Senator Dole, and it's from this section. Yes, ma'am?
 
Q. Senator Dole, I am Verda Strategus, and I work in health care.
And it's truly an honor to be here tonight to address both of you. Being in health care -- we have talked a little bit about health care tonight -- but mainly Medical and Medicare have been mentioned. But, the private sector is a problem.
Managed care is taking over, especially, in California. And because of that, the quality of care is going downhill. There are many, many people who cannot get the tests that they need, when they need them. And because of that, they are dying needlessly.
There are many, many more lawsuits being presented against the managed-care industry because of this and I think it's a real problem that needs to be addressed. What would you do if you were President?
 
DOLE Well, one thing I did was to oppose the Government takeover of health care that President Clinton offered in 1993 which created 17 new taxes and 50 new bureaucracies and price controls because we were afraid that the very thing you mentioned would have happened. Everybody would have been forced into managed care. You couldn't have chosen your own doctor. And that would have been the end. And I think right now, we got to go back -- I know they've appointed a commission to take a look at managed care. Maybe that's part of the answer.
But it seems to me if we start to take choices away from people, if we drive them into one-type care, if we eliminate fee-for-service all together or eliminate the fact that you can go to your own doctor, you've got to go somewhere else, then I think we've taken a giant step backward in the United States of America. We have the best health- care delivery system in the world.
And we want to keep it that way. That's why we opposed the Government takeover health care plan that President Clinton tried and tried and tried to get through Congress.
Didn't get it done. When it ended up we had more votes than he had, then they decided to pull the plug.
It was a big, big mistake. Now, whether or not he'll do that again, I've heard some of the people say, well, that's the model we ought to use. And if he's re-elected, maybe he'll come back and try it again.
I hope not. I hope not in both cases.
But it does seem to me that you've raised a very important point that needs to be addressed. You're going to have to watch it. Going to have to take a look at all the managed care going on in California.
Or we're going to end up losing our best care that we have in the world.
 
CLINTON I'm just curious. How many of you are under managed care plans? Raise your hand if you're in managed care.
 
DOLE There aren't many young people here.
 
CLINTON How many of you like it?
Well ----
 
DOLE Two.
 
CLINTON ---- one of the things that I tried to do was to make sure that everybody in the country who was under a managed care plan should at least have three choices of plans and would have the right to get out without penalty every year.
Now, that's not a Government takeover. That's like the Family and Medical Leave Law. It just tries to set the rules of the game.
I'm strongly in favor of a Federal bill to repeal the -- any gag rules on providers. In other words, I believe that doctors should not be able to be kicked out of managed care plans just because they tell the patients what they need and what more expensive care options might be.
If we're saving money and managing resources better, that's a good thing. If we're saving money and depriving people of care that's a bad thing.
A good place to start is to say no managed-care provider can gag a doctor and kick the doctor out of the managed-care plan for the doctor telling the patient you need a more expensive test, you need a more expensive procedure; your health requires it.
 
MODERATOR Senator Dole.
 
DOLE Well, I don't have any quarrel with that. I think that would help. But I think what we want to avoid is falling back into this nationalized health care system that President Clinton wanted to give us in 1993.
If that isn't a liberal idea, I've never heard one. Seventeen new taxes, price controls, 50 new bureaucracies. We had that trouble all over America. We need to deal with managed care. It not only happened in California. It's happening in other states that we visited too.
It's a national problem, not just a state problem.
 
Other Parties
MODERATOR The next question is for President Clinton, and in this section. Yes, ma'am?
Yes, you're it.
Q. I'd sort of like to -- Colleen O'Connor. I teach history and political science at San Diego Mesa College right up the road here. And I'd like to tee off from the original question by another teacher and speak for those people that aren't here tonight.
Sixty-three percent of the American people are not participating, that are eligible to vote, not even participating in the process. Several parties can't even get into the debate. The Green Party, the Reform Party, the Natural Law Party, all of these people have basically opted out of what we're still participating in.
And if we, in fact, are going to bring the country back together and be all faces around the table, the new American family, what do you see as something the President can do to begin that process to bring them back in?
 
CLINTON First of all, I think it's important to make voting more accessible. That's why I strongly supported the Motor Voter Law. There was a big story, I think, in USA Today about the millions of people who have now registered because of it.
Secondly, I think we need to look at making the elections more accessible. You know, several states now are letting people vote over three weeks. A lot of people are busy and it's hard for them to just get there and vote.
The third thing I think we need is more forums like this, which is one of the reasons I have so strongly supported campaign finance reform because if you want to cut the costs of campaigns, you have to open the airwaves; because what drives the cost of campaign are the cost of advertising on television, radio, newspaper, mass mailings.
And if you open the airwaves to more things like this -- you see it's not just you that are participating here. For every one of you who stood up here and asked a question tonight, I promise you, there's 100,000 Americans who said, I wish I could have asked that question. So I think we have to change the nature of politics.
The last thing I think we should do is something I've been trying to do since I've been President, is every time I do something in a public way, I try to have a real American citizen there who is directly affected by it so that people can see the connection of what happens way across the country in Washington with more police on the street in San Diego, clean-up the sewage here in San Diego, doubling the border guards here in Southern California.
That there is a connection between what we do way back there and what we do here. Those are my best ideas about it.
 
DOLE Well, I don't know of any perfect solution. I've been in politics for some time, and I worry about the people that don't vote.
And I wonder if it's our fault, the candidates' fault. People say, "I don't care. One vote doesn't make a difference."
I can give you hundreds of cases -- you can probably give me 200 cases where one vote made a difference. I know it made a lot of difference many times in the Congress.
Campaign finance might help. Might help contributions coming in from Indonesia or other foreign countries -- rich people from those countries. Then being sent back after The L.A. Times discovers it -- $250,000.
But maybe there ought to be more debates. I'd be willing to have another debate this year. We're going to invite all the candidates.
Talk about the economy. If we don't get the economy to grow, if we don't cut taxes and give people child credits and cut the capital gains rate and get this economy growing, we're going to limp into the next century.
If we grow the economy, it's going to help Social Security. It's going to help jobs. It's going to help everybody.
 
CLINTON Let me make one other suggestion. As you're a teacher, you can have an impact on that.
One of the things I think that really frustrates people is that so often political campaigns seem to be more about the politicians that are running than the people.
Now there is a connection and I think what we have to do is convince people there's a big difference. If you vote one way, you will have a Department of Education in the 21st century. If you vote other way, you won't.
If you vote one way you'll have an expansion of family leave.
If you vote the other way, you'll be lucky to save it.
But these are important questions and people have to decide. I think that the American people also need to be a little more responsible and think about whether there's a connection in their lives and what we do in Washington.

Social Security
MODERATOR For Senator Dole, in this section -- on the back row. Yes, ma'am.
 
Q. I'm Iris Seifert and I'm unemployed.
 
DOLE Iris.
 
Q. Iris. Senator Dole, we talked about Social Security for us baby boomers but shouldn't we be saving and investing for our own retirement as well? Are you planning any incentives to encourage us to take care of ourselves rather to rely on the Government and on Social Security when we retire?
 
DOLE Well, we have in our economic package, Individual Retirement Accounts, where we think it will encourage savings. You could also use those accounts for health care or education or a first home.
We're doing that precisely -- and I think one thing sooner or later we're going to have to consider -- is take a look at the Social Security system, because a lot of people are advocating that, well, we don't want to put our money into Social Security.
And you got to be very careful of that. You have to protect the people who are already in the pipeline.
But something you might consider, I'm not suggesting it be done, but at least we ought to look at it. When I was Chairman of the Finance Committee, which handles Social Security, we looked at all these options. And one thing we got to make certain -- when I used to go home my mother would tell me, all I've got is my Social Security, don't touch it.
And we didn't touch it. We preserved it. And I'm an optimist. You're Social Security is going to be there when you retire. We'll fix it. It'll probably happen in the year 2012 or 2015.
In 1983, we thought we had a 75-year fix. It didn't work. Much, much less, but at least we fixed it for some time, and 37 to 40 million people get their checks on time.
So we need to preserve the system. And we need to make it stronger. But we also need to look at some options, whether or not we -- depends on what the options are. In fact, I've got a commission right now in Congress, a bipartisan commission, looking at all the different options they're going to present to the next Congress. So I think we'll wait and see what they present, take a look at it.
 
CLINTON Ours -- this is one where we have some agreement, I think.
Only about half the people in this country have pension plans. And Social Security is not enough for a lot of people to live on, or at least is not enough for them to maintain anything like their previous lifestyle.
So we've got to figure out how we're going to have more people with pension plans, and pension coverage has been declining as more and more people work for small businesses and fewer people work for big businesses.
So, what is in my plan -- and I think it's almost identical to what's in Senator Dole's plan -- is we make more people that are now eligible to save in an I.R.A., and we let couples, married couples, save more. And then they could withdraw from it tax-free if they needed to for medical emergencies or to buy a home or for an education, but they could also save to supplement their retirement.
In addition to that, we just passed a sweeping small business reform that makes it easier for small business people to take out 401(k) plans for themselves and their employees.
And then much easier for employees to carry it from job to job. My best friend from grade school is a computer software salesman. And he told me the last time he changed employers it took him nine months to figure out how to transfer his 401(k) plan.
Now, none of that will happen anymore. And so, I hope that over the next 10 years, you'll see a big increase in the percentage of people that have pension plans, plus a secure Social Security system.
 
DOLE Did you say you're unemployed? You see, the first thing we got to do is get you a job.
And that's the economic package you get. Create jobs and opportunities. Reduce the capital gains rate. Reduce regulatory reform. Stop some of this senseless litigation and let people work in America. And I think that's the thrust we will make.
Obviously, Social Security is a very important program. It'll be preserved. Democrats or Republicans, it'll be preserved. We want to make certain we protect those in the pipeline. Just as we did back in 1983.
And we did it on a bipartisan basis. We took it out of politics. People get so tired of politics. We ought to do the same with Medicare. Maybe, we can make a deal here tonight.

Trade Deficit
MODERATOR All right. The question's for President Clinton. Does anybody have a foreign affairs question in this section. Yes sir.
 
Q. Good evening, I'm Michael Smith. I'm a electronics technician in the navy. My question was how you plan to deal with the trade deficit with Japan?
 
CLINTON Let me tell you what we have done. We have concluded with Japan, 21 about to be 22 trade agreements now.
And since we did that, in the areas where we concluded trade agreements, our exports to Japan have gone up by 85 percent in the last four years, and our trade deficit with Japan has gone down.
Until about five months ago, the Japanese economy was in a deep recession. It's coming back now. So they can buy even more American products, and I think it will go down more.
But I'm very -- that's one of the real success stories here of the work we've done. We're selling Japanese rice from California for the first time.
I visited a Chrysler dealership in Tokyo. I visited a Jeep plant, the oldest auto plant in America, in Toledo, Ohio, where they're going to export 41,000 right-hand drive Jeeps this year. And they've got 700 new jobs because of it.
There is no easy way to do this. When you're dealing with an economy that's traditionally been more closed and one that's traditionally been more open, you just have to gut it out issue by issue by issue.
We've just -- we've agreed in principle on an insurance agreement, and we're working on three or four other areas now. But the way you have to do it is make sure you're competitive.
We're the most competitive country in the world now, and then just fight to open those market and go try to make the sale. And that's what our trade ambassador, our Commerce Secretary, all the other people in our administration try to do.
 
MODERATOR Senator?
 
DOLE Well, the bottom line is we've got to stop exporting jobs. We need to keep jobs here. I said there were 357,000 goods jobs, manufacturing jobs which were lost.
And I assume some of those, because of our trading partners, we didn't have access to their markets.
We ought to insist on access. If we don't have access to their markets the same way they have access to our markets, we ought to say, wait a minute. That's enough. Time out. When you give us access, we'll give you access.
It's very hard to get into the Japanese market, as everybody knows. They want to get into our market. They sell a lot of automobiles here, create a lot of jobs for those who sell exports. And it's very important to the economy.
But I think we want to make certain -- I supported the President's trade policy. But we've got to be more aggressive. Once you have a policy, then you've got to go out and be aggressive and enforce that policy. There are American jobs that are being lost.
This is what Ross Perot complains about. And I'd say to the Reform Party, take a look at the Republican Party. We're the reform party and we're going to make things better. One of the things we're going to do is stop exporting jobs from America.
 
CLINTON Let me say again, we've had over 200 separate trade agreements in the last four years, by far, the largest number in American history; not just the big ones you've read about, but a lot of smaller ones.
And now, what we have to do is to focus on those things we're real good at and make sure we're getting a fair deal. We just had a pretty serious dispute with China because they were copying our C.D.'s and costing thousands of jobs in places like California.
So, we had to -- We said, you know, if you want to keep doing business and selling your products over here, you're going to have quit pirating our C.D.'s. And they agreed to do a number of things and to let us verify that they'd done it. And I think they're going to make the problem much better.
But there is not a simple, easy answer. You just have to work on this day in and day out, every month, every year, every issue to make sure that we have, not only free trade, but fair trade.
I'm proud that we're better off on that than we were four years ago.

Role of Leadership
MODERATOR All right, the next question is for Senator Dole and it's in this section. Yes, sir.
 
Q. Ron Kite, minister.
 
DOLE Hi, Ron.
 
Q. This great nation has been established by the founding fathers who possessed a very strong Christian beliefs and godly principles. If elected President of the United States, what could you do to return this nation to these basic principles. And also, do you feel that the President, the office of the President, has the responsibility to set the role example to inspire our young people?
 
DOLE Well, no doubt about it, our Founding Fathers had a great deal of wisdom. And in addition to what you mentioned, they also were concerned about this all powerful central Government in Washington, D.C., that would in effect confiscate your property. So I carry around in my pocket -- I can't pull it out, I'd violate the rules -- a copy of the 10th Amendment which says that we ought to return power to the states and power to the people, the people here. You ought to make more decisions, well a few of you. Honor, duty, and country -- that's what America is all about.
Certainly the President of the United States, the highest office in the world, the most important office in the world, has the responsibility to young people, as we talked about earlier, to everyone, by example.
And as when it comes to public ethics, he has a responsibility. And you have 30 some in your administration who have either left or being investigated or in jail or whatever, and you've got an ethical problem.
It's public ethics. I'm not talking about private, we're talking about public ethics. When you have 900 files gathered up by some guy who was a bouncer in a bar and hired as a security officer to collect files -- in Watergate, I know a person who went to jail for looking at one file. One F.B.I. file.
There are 900 sequestered in the White House -- 900. People like you. Why should they be rifling through your files? So the President has a great responsibility.
It's one that I understand and certainly will carry out.
 
CLINTON This is the most religious -- great country in history. And yet interestingly enough, we have the most religious freedom of any country in the world, including the freedom not to believe. And now we have all these people -- just up the road in Los Angeles county, we've got people from 150 different racial and ethnic groups, and they've got tons of different religions.
But the fundamental tenets of virtually every religion are the same. And what I've tried to do is to support policies that would respect religion and then help parents inculcate those values to their children. And let me very briefly give you some examples.
One of my proudest moments was signing the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, which says the government's got to bend over backwards before we interfere with religious practice. So I changed the Justice Department effort to get a church to pay back a man's tithe because he was bankrupt when he gave it.
I supported character education programs in our schools, drug-free schools programs. I supported giving parents a V-chip on their television. So, if they don't want their young kids to watch things they shouldn't watch, they wouldn't have to.
That's the kind of thing we need to do, give people like you and our families the power to give those values to our children.
 
DOLE Well, I think it's -- before I came in tonight, my wife and daughter and I had a prayer. Because it's God will whatever happens. If it's God will, it will happen.
Constitutional amendment for voluntary prayer in school might be a great idea. I support it. The President opposes it. And it seems to me the President, whoever the President may be, this is one of his highest responsibilities.
People look to the President of the United States more than any other person in America. And that's the way it's always been. And that's the way it always will be.

Equal Rights
MODERATOR All right. This is our last question. It goes to President Clinton and it's from this section. Yes ma'am.
 
Q. My name is Eyvette Dubbie and I, too, am a minister. I'm with the Universal Fellowship of Metropolitan Community Churches. President Clinton perhaps you could help me with something tonight.
I've heard Mr. Dole say several times, all of us together. And when he was asked if he would support equal rights in employment for gay and lesbian people, you said that you favored that. And he said that he did not believe in special rights.
And I thought the question was equal rights for all people.
And I don't understand why people are using the term "special rights" when the question is equal rights. Could you help me in understanding that?
 
CLINTON I want to answer your question, but let me say one other thing. We don't need a constitutional amendment for kids to pray.
And what I did was to have the Justice Department and the Education Department, for the first time ever, issue a set of guidelines that we gave to every school in America saying that children could not be interfered with in religious advocacy -- when they were praying, when they were doing whatever they could do under the Constitution -- just because they were on the public school grounds.
And I think anyone who's experienced this would tell you that our administration has done more than any in 30 years to clarify the freedom of religion in the public square, including in the public schools.
Now, I think I have to let Senator Dole speak for himself. It wouldn't be fair for me to do that. I would wind up -- I mean, it's the last question. I'd mischaracterize it to try to make you happy.
Let me tell you what I feel.
We have a lot of differences in our country, and some of us believe that other people's decision are wrong, even immoral.
But under our Constitution, if you show up tomorrow and obey the law and you work hard and you do what you're supposed to do, you're entitled to equal treatment. That's the way the system works.
All over the world, people are being torn apart -- Bosnia, the Middle East, Northern Ireland, Rwanda, Burundi, you name it -- because of all their differences.
We still have some of that hatred inside us. You see it in the church burnings. And one of the things I tried hardest to do is to tell the American people, that we have to get beyond that. We have to understand that we're stronger when we unite around shared values instead of being divided by our differences.
 
MODERATOR Senator Dole.
 
DOLE Well, I hope I made my answer clear. I said I am opposed to discrimination. You know we suffered discrimination in the disability community. There are 43 million of us and I can recall cases where people would cross the street rather than to meet somebody in a wheelchair.
So, we want to end discrimination. I think that answers itself. No discrimination in America. We've made that clear. And I would just say it seems to me that's the way it ought to be. We shouldn't discriminate -- race, color, whatever, lifestyle, disability. This is America and we're all proud of it. But we're not there yet.
What we need is good, strong leadership going into the next century. I'm sorry we didn't have a foreign policy question because just this week Secretary Christopher said, well, we really didn't know much the first couple of years about foreign policy. Now, that was quite an admission. It underscores what I had to say in the Hartford debate, that there is really no foreign policy in this Administration. It's sort of ad hoc, just whatever comes up, we'll deal with it. Unfortunately we didn't have more questions on that.
 
CLINTON Let me say again, there is no more important responsibility for the president than to say if you believe in the Constitution, the Bill of Rights and the Declaration of Independence, that's all we need to know.
And you can be part of our America. And you can walk across that bridge to the 21st century with us.
And we are not well-served when we attack each other in a kind of ad hominem way. It doesn't create jobs. It doesn't educate children. It doesn't solve problems.
We need to be disagreeing on ideas honestly and talking about the future. The future will be the greatest time in this country's history, if we can beat this division that is bedeviling the whole rest of the world.
 
Closing Statements
MODERATOR All right. Now, we go to the closing statement. Senator Dole, you're first two minutes, sir.
 
DOLE Well, let me thank everybody here at the university and, Jim, thank you and all the people who may still be watching or viewing.
This is what it's all about. It's not about me. It's not about President Clinton. It's about the process. It's about selecting the president of the United States.
So, we have our differences. We should have our differences. Mentioned other parties. They have their differences. If we all agreed it'd be a pretty dull place. We should have more debates. Maybe we'll have another debate on the economy.
But I would just say this: This is the highest honor that I've ever had in my life. To think that somebody from Russell, Kan., somebody who grew up living in a basement apartment, somebody whose parents didn't finish high school, somebody who spent about 39 months in hospitals after World War II, somebody who uses a button hook everyday to get dressed, somebody who understands that there are real Americans out there with real problems, whether they're soccer moms, or the single parents or families working with seniors or people with disabilities, whoever it may be -- but there are some very fundamental differences in this campaign.
President Clinton opposes term limits. President Clinton opposes a constitutional amendment to balance the budget.
President Clinton opposes a voluntary prayer amendment. He opposes an amendment to protect the flag of the United States of America. People give their lives -- a couple of servicemen here, they sacrifice. They give everything for America. We ought to protect the American flag with a constitutional amendment. But beyond that, we need to address the economy.
And I would just save my time, I'm running out here. It's a very proud moment for me. And what I want the voters to do is to make a decision. And I want them to be proud of their vote in the years ahead, proud that they voted for the right candidate, proud that they voted, hopefully, for me.
And I'll just make you one promise. My word is good. Democrats and Republicans groups have said Bob Dole's word is good. I keep my word. I promise you the economy is going to get better. We're going to have a good economic package and we're going into the next century a better America. Thank you.
 
MODERATOR Mr. President.
 
CLINTON Thank you, Jim, and thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and for all the people who are watching. There's one thing I'd like to say, as I agree with what Senator Dole said. It's a remarkable thing in a country like ours that a man who grew up in Russell, Kan., and one who was born to a widowed mother in Hope, Ark., could wind up running for president, could have a chance to serve as president. So the first thing I want to say is thank you for giving me the chance to be President.
This election is about two different visions about how we should go into the 21st century. Would we be better off, as I believe, working together to give each other the tools we need to make the most of our God-given potential, or are we better off saying, you're on your own?
Would we be better off building that bridge to the future together so we can all walk across it, or saying you can get across yourself?
If you don't leave this room with anything else tonight, and if the people watching us don't leave with anything else, I hope you'll leave with this.
This is a real important election. The world is changing dramatically in how we work and how we live, how we relate to each other. Huge changes. And the decisions we make will have enormous practical consequences.
So we've talked about our responsibilities tonight. I want to talk about your responsibility, and your responsibility. Your responsibility is to show up on November the 5th, because you're going to decide whether we're going to balance the budget now, but protect Medicare, Medicaid, education and the environment.
You will decide whether we're going to keep fighting crime with the Brady Bill, the assault weapons and finish putting those 100,000 police. Whether we're going to move a million people from welfare to work.
Whether we're going to give our families more protection for their kids against drugs and tobacco and gangs and guns. Whether we're going to give our children a world-class education where every 8-year-old can read, every 12-year-old can log in on the Internet, every 18-year-old can go to college.
If we do those things, we'll build that bridge to the 21st century. And the greatest country in history will be even greater.
Thank you.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton in the debate last night, in which he kept his gestures small. (Pool Photo by Susan Sterner)(pg. B10); Bob Dole answered a question last night at the debate with the President in San Diego. (Pool photo by Susan Sterner)(pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; DEBATING POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CHILDREN (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (66%); SINGLE PARENTS (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1996



402 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1577 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE DEBATE;
DOLE ATTACKS CLINTON'S ETHICS; PRESIDENT PARRIES ON ECONOMY

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

 BODY:
In a spirited confrontation before the nation's voters, Bob Dole used the final televised Presidential debate last night to attack the ethical and governmental record of President Clinton repeatedly as scandal tainted and undeserving of renewal at the ballot box.
"Many American people have lost their faith in government," Mr. Dole said, moving in quickly on the ethics attack in the opening moments of the debate in San Diego in an attempt to reverse Mr. Clinton's formidable leads in popularity polls just 20 days short of the election. 
 "They see scandals on almost a daily basis," Mr. Dole contended. "They see ethical problems in the White House. There's a great deal of cynicism out there."
President Clinton, the front-running incumbent wary of any jagged dialogue of charge and counter-charge, basically ignored the Republican challenger's accusations and instead repeatedly invoked the nation's economic health and his outlook for further growth in four more years of incumbency. [Text, pages B10-13.]
"Compared to four years ago, we're clearly better off," the President insisted. "That progress is only the beginning."
For all the buildup by Republican strategists to the 90-minute debate in the Shiley Theater at the University of San Diego, in which Mr. Dole was advertised as taking to relentless criticism of Mr. Clinton, the evening turned out to be a victory of sorts for the questioners, who pressed the candidates with highly specific issues that generally kept the confrontation short of open anger.
Mr. Clinton, while avoiding an aggressive posture, did not hesitate to challenge some of the former Senate majority leader's assertions on matters of public policy, particularly his contention that the current state of the economy was the worst in this century.
"In February he said we had the best economy in 30 years," the President said in rebuttal, quickly turning an old Ronald Reagan line against Mr. Dole in a direct appeal to the audience: "If you believe that the California economy was better in 1992 than today, you should vote for Bob Dole."
Both politicians, standing on a red-carpeted debating stage with their political careers on the line, tangled over an array of issues including Medicare and fighting nicotine addiction. The setting of a town hall forum was designed to offer audience interaction, and not merely one-on-one confrontation.
As expected, the President moved ever closer to the audience during the debate, as if he were the host for the evening's program. Mr. Dole preferred more of a debater's center-stage stance as he denounced the Clinton record.
The former Senator had to finesse the amiability of the setting to keep Mr. Clinton in the cross hairs of his attack strategy. He labored to move quickly from the questions' specific subject matter back to his attack on the President.
Asked whether the nation's move toward managed health care was "going downhill," Mr. Dole responded by denouncing "the national health care system President Clinton wanted to give us" in 1993. "If that isn't a liberal idea, I don't know what is," he said.
As the evening wore on, Mr. Dole, despite his strategy, seemed to ease deeper at times into the details of questions on health, the economy, jobs and welfare put by a group of 113 uncommitted voters chosen by the Gallup polling organization. A more congenial mood prevailed and the ethics attacks faded somewhat from center stage, although nettlesome moments flared.
"I don't think Senator Dole is too old to be President," Mr. Clinton answered one questioner. "It's the age of his ideas that I question."
Mr. Dole shot back: "When you don't have any ideas I guess you say the other person's ideas are old." This, he said, was "the liberal philosophy."
At the heart of the debate before tens of millions of watching Americans was the Republicans' running frustration that Mr. Clinton's lead in the public opinion polls has lingered firmly in the double digits despite the Democrats' surprising loss of Congress in 1994 and a veritable fusillade of Republican-encouraged investigations and allegations of White House affairs for the past two years.
While Mr. Dole sought to remind voters of the latter, he was put on the defensive by the President on such issues as rising Medicare costs.
"We'll work it out," Mr. Dole said, accusing Mr. Clinton of playing politics with the issue. "If all you have is fear, that's all you can use."
The President countered that Republicans would painfully curtail Medicare. "We need to reform it, not wreck it," he said while complimenting Mr. Dole as acting responsibly in the 1983 bipartisan compromise that bolstered Social Security.
Throughout the confrontation, the President led with the economy and his promise of that "bridge to the 21st century."
"We worked hard to bring the deficit down," Mr. Clinton said, pointedly reminding the audience that the Congressional Republican majority is widely blamed for "shutting down the Government" in budget disputes earlier this year.
"It's important that we go beyond these old partisan arguments," he said in deflecting Mr. Dole's criticisms while once again denouncing the challenger's proposed 15 percent tax cut as a "scheme that will blow a huge hole in the deficit."
Mr. Dole's ethics attacks ranged from "the 30-some in your Administration" dismissed, resigned or under investigation, by the former Senator's count, to the alleged abuse of hundreds of personnel files, Republicans included, by White House investigators. He generally avoided, however, references to the tangle of charges, inquiries and felony convictions known as Whitewater.
"The President of the United States has a public trust," said Mr. Dole. "I know that trust is being violated."
Mr. Dole tried to be brief on his earlier controversy over whether nicotine is addictive: "Don't smoke. Don't drink. Don't use drugs."
But Mr. Clinton described the issue as one of their biggest differences. "No President had ever taken on the tobacco lobby before," he said. "I did. Senator Dole opposed me."
When a cardiologist asked what the candidates would do to fix the health system, Mr. Dole quickly seized the opportunity to lambaste Mr. Clinton on Medicare.
"Let me say, there you go again Mr. President," Mr. Dole said, asserting that Mr. Clinton had repeatedly accused the Republicans of cutting the Medicare program for the elderly, when in fact they were only reducing its rate of growth.
"Let's stop talking about cutting Medicare," he said. "If I were a senior citizen, I'd be fed up with all these ads scaring them."
Mr. Clinton responded that the Republicans' idea of saving Medicare "was to have the poorest Americans pay more." He added, "We need to reform it, not wreck it."
Mr. Dole also used the question to remind people of Mr. Clinton's proposed overhaul of the health care system, calling it an "extreme" plan that he said would have closed 700 hospitals and created 50 new bureaucracies.
Mr. Clinton defended his efforts, saying, "We've worked hard to promote more competition to bring down inflation" and declaring that he had added a million more children to Medicaid coverage, protected 25 million people, made health insurance portable from job to job, and required 48 hour minimum stays for new mothers. "That's a good start," he said.
After hearing complaints from a health care worker about managed-care programs, Mr. Dole said he would favor a Federal commission to study the issue. "When we take away choices," Mr. Dole said, "then I think we've taken a giant step backward."
Mr. Clinton responded that he supported managed-care plans that allow people "three choices and have a right to get out once a year." The President also said that "doctors shouldn't be kicked out of care plans just because they tell patients" what they need.
Responding to a question about the looming problems in Social Security and how to help people save more for their retirements, the candidates found themselves in near total agreement. Both of them advocated changing the rules for Individual Retirement Accounts to allow money saved in them to be used for health care, education and the purchase of a first home. And both said that it would take a bipartisan agreement to fix the Social Security system when it runs short of cash as the baby boom generation retires.
"We'll work it out," Mr. Dole said, noting that he was a member of a nonpartisan commission that rescued the system originally in 1983.
When Mr. Dole was asked how, at his age, he could relate to young people, Mr. Dole responded with a lighthearted argument. "Wisdom comes from age, experience and intelligence," he said. "I have some age, some experience and some intelligence. That adds up to wisdom."
On the CNN program "Larry King Live" last night in Atlanta, Ross Perot, the Reform Party candidate, fielded questions from a cable audience in much the same way that the President and Mr. Dole did in San Diego earlier in the evening.
His answers to questions from the audience reiterated Reform Party positions, including his belief in the need for deficit reduction and a tightening of campaign finance laws.
In his closing remarks, however, Mr. Perot urged four groups to vote for him on Nov. 5. He singled out Americans in the military and their families, owners of small businesses, adults between the ages of 18 and 34 and those of voting age who are unlikely to vote.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 1996, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page picture caption on Thursday about the Presidential debate at the University of San Diego misspelled the name of the theater there in some copies. It is the Shiley, not the Shilaey.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Dole and President Clinton during their debate at Shiley Theater at the University of San Diego last night. (CNN)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; DEBATING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS ETHICS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (67%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1996



403 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Making Stock Buyers Of Wary Germans

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Oct. 16

 BODY:
Isabelle Klinger has never bought stocks. She views them the same way the vast majority of Germans do: with distrust.
But for the last few months, she has been bombarded with sales pitches -- on television, on billboards, at her bank, in brochures that come with her telephone bill. They are all aimed at one goal: persuading her to buy stock in Germany's phone company, Deutsche Telekom. 
 "It would be so foolish to pass up something like this," Manfred Krug, a folksy German television star, advises in ads blanketing the airwaves. On billboards and in glossy magazine ads, young executives swap reasons why they are buying shares.
Ms. Klinger, a graduate student in her late 20's, is not convinced. "The ads are too annoying, and they don't give enough information," she said last week. "One cannot make a judgment because one knows so little."
Until recently, most Germans considered such resistance to risk a pillar of their country's economic strength. Rather than buy stocks, the majority of Germans seem to crave the security of bank deposits and insurance policies. And they are proud of it.
But now, a powerful alliance of political and business leaders has concluded that such virtue is in fact a dangerous national problem, depriving German financial markets of capital they will need to keep pace with Wall Street and the City of London, and making Germans too reliant on state retirement benefits the Government can no longer afford.
What Germany needs, these leaders say, is an Aktienkultur, or stock culture, that will direct workers' savings into American-style pension funds, which in turn will feed the financial markets. They view Deutsche Telekom's huge stock offering, intended to raise up to $10 billion, as the key to creating a nation of shareholders.
"It's do-or-die," said Ralf Conen, German equity analyst at Salomon Brothers. "If this doesn't fly, the equity culture is not going to emerge, and if the equity culture doesn't emerge, you won't be able to sell the Anglo-American-style pension funds. And then you're really sunk."
The Government has spared no effort to make its flagship sale of Deutsche Telekom stock a hit with individuals. The company, a state monopoly, has spent about $150 million on saturation advertising and millions more on a nationwide telephone hot line for potential share buyers to register their interest.
It gave preference to those individual investors over institutions by allowing them to reserve up to 300 shares apiece by last Friday. About two and a half million people expressed interest by that deadline. And it pressed the 80 underwriting institutions, led by Goldman, Sachs & Company, Deutsche Bank and Dresdner Bank, to provide sweeteners to individuals, such as discounts for those who signed up early and bonus shares for those who hold shares for three years.
Under official prodding, Germany's biggest banks have offered other sweeteners: special savings accounts for buying stock that yield 3 percent interest rather than the normal 2 percent.
"People in government complained a lot about the absence of an Aktienkultur, and they blamed the banks at least in part for that," a bank executive said. "They made it clear we should do our part here as well."
So far, the Deutsche Telekom offering is exceeding the Government's hopes that German individuals and institutions buy 50 percent of the shares, leaving the remaining 50 percent for investors in the United States and other countries. Demand is so strong that half the offering may be bought by individual Germans.
If the offering is a success, officials and executives say, it will pave the way for others, at a time at least 22 German companies are to raise capital through initial stock offerings. Many more, particularly smaller and more entrepreneurial companies, would like to do so, as well.
The Government has its own reasons for promoting Aktienkultur. It wants to sell not only a second $10 billion chunk of Deutsche Telekom, but also the huge bank operated by the German post office, and billions' worth of state-owned real estate.
Beyond that, Chancellor Helmut Kohl's right-of-center Government is trimming back Germany's expensive system of retirement benefits. Officials hope that the rise of private pension funds and mutual funds, like those in the United States, will begin providing an alternative and make further cuts more palatable.
If the Deutsche Telekom offering fails, however, many officials fear it could permanently sour a market in which Germans now invest only 5.4 percent of their household assets in stock, compared with 17.5 percent by Britons and 21.1 percent by Americans, according to the German Equity Institute, a research group.
For all of Germany's wealth -- total household assets are about $2.5 trillion -- this is a country that saves rather than invests. Germans put half their savings into low-interest but secure bank certificates and bonds, and 20 percent into insurance policies.
Private pension funds and mutual funds, which provide huge pools of investment capital in the United States and Britain, have barely gotten off the ground here.
In the campaign to reassure Germany's skittish investors, perhaps the ultimate stock promotion is something called Safe-T, dreamed up by Commerzbank, one of the country's largest.
Under Safe-T, named for the T that will be Deutsche Telekom's ticker symbol on the stock exchange here, investors are guaranteed not to lose money for five years.
To take part, they give Commerzbank the yearly dividend of three-fifths of a mark per share -- now 39 cents -- that Deutsche Telekom is offering. In exchange, the bank has promised to fully protect these investors if the stock slides below its offering price and they decide to sell.
Ullrich Ramm, Commerzbank's chief economist, said investors had signaled a readiness to buy about 500 million marks worth of stock through Safe-T -- about $325 million -- in addition to as much as $1 billion more in unprotected stock that the bank hopes to sell.
"I am very sure that all the shares could be sold to private individual investors," he added, "though I think that would be unwise."
To be on the safe side, Deutsche Telekom offered an enticement of its own two weeks ago. Even though the company is saddled with $70 billion in debt, and must open its monopoly market to powerful rivals in 1998, it announced that it would double its dividend next year, to 1.2 marks, at a cost of 1.5 billion marks -- currently $975 million.
Most of the sales hoopla was under way before investors could even glimpse a prospectus, and they still don't know what price Deutsche Telekom will want for its shares. The principal underwriters do not plan to set the stock price until Monday. Banks and brokerage firms will start taking orders on Tuesday and the stock is to open for public trading on Nov. 18.
Some investors are quietly betting that the stock offering will give individual investors a windfall at the expense of big institutions. As individual Germans buy more shares than originally envisioned, institutional buyers may be forced to acquire shares in the after-market. That, in turn, could push the stock price higher almost as soon as it opens for sale on world exchanges.
It remains far from clear that Germans will change their customary aversion to risk over the long term. Whatever the weaknesses of the retirement system, most people think their pensions and related benefits will cover their old-age needs. Many see little need to set aside money or invest it over the long term.
Future stock offerings, moreover, are not likely to have as many Government-induced sweeteners for individuals.
The chairman of Deutsche Bank, Hilmar Kopper, predicted that many, many people would buy the shares, but that many of them would soon sell for a quick profit. "My thinking is that this will not over time enhance the man on the street's attitude," he said.
Some investment bankers say there is a precedent for prompting a long-term shift toward stock ownership: in Britain. Before British Telecommunications went public more than 10 years ago, many Britons were leery about stocks in the way that Germans are today.
But the sale of British Telecom, accompanied by the same kind of promotion, was a great hit -- particularly after the price of the shares climbed rapidly in the first year after it went public.
For nervous Germans, there could hardly be a company that radiates more sense of stability than their telephone company.
And at least some investors say they've been swayed by the barrage of ads, particularly the television spots starring Manfred Krug.
"I think the campaign is pretty good," said Roland Loos, an office worker in Frankfurt. "I like Manfred Krug -- he's like a buddy. I think I'll buy some shares myself."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 23, 1996, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on the front page of Business Day on Thursday showing a cardboard cutout promoting the sale of shares in Deutsche Telekom misidentified the man in the advertisement. It was Gunter Mertens, a model and artist, not Manfred Krug, a German television star.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Germans are being inundated with advertisements on television, billboards and in newspapers and magazines, all designed to direct workers' savings into American-style pension funds. At left is an advertising cardboard cutout of Manfred Krug, the television star who promotes purchasing stock in Germany's phone company, Deutsche Telekom. (Photgraph by Arnd Wiegmann for The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Graph: "Invest in the Market? Nein."
Deutsche Telekom and other German companies that hope to go public have to overcome a deep national distrust of the stock market. Most shares in German companies are held by other businesses, rather than individuals, who are far less likely in Germany than in some other industrial nations to own stocks.
Graphs show breakdowns of stock ownership at year-end 1995 in German and in the United States. Also shown is a comparison of sharelholders as a percentage of the population in five industrialized nations. (Sources: German Equity Institute, Federal Reserve) (pg. D1)
 
Table: "At the Door" lists some of the German companies that have gone public or plan to go public soon. (Source: Salomon Brothers) (pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); DTE (FRA) (57%); DTE (BIT) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); TELEPHONE RATES (77%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (77%); EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (70%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); INSURANCE POLICIES (66%); 

PERSON: ISABELLE KLINGER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996



404 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 29; Column 1; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW;
In Asia, a War of Past and Present

BYLINE: By GRACE GLUECK 

 BODY:
We're so accustomed to thinking of Asian art in terms of its great classical past that a show of new, "live" work from the heart of this explosively changing continent is enough to bring on a bout of culture shock. True, in recent years live Asian artists have found a place on the New York scene, but their contributions have been more Western-oriented (no pun intended). And seen piecemeal, they don't have the pizazz of an overall presentation like "Contemporary Art in Asia: Traditions/Tensions."
It's also true that there is a downside focus to this three-venue extravaganza, which offers installations, paintings and sculptures by 27 artists from 5 representative countries: India, Indonesia, the Philippines, South Korea and Thailand. The focus, fine-tuned by the show's curator, Apinan Poshyananda of Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok, is on the struggle to reconcile some harsh realities of present-day, post-colonial Asia with the still powerful pull of its ancient cultural codes. 
 Few of these problems go unexplored in the show's raw, angst-ridden context: the plight of women, the marginalization of the aged and illiterate, the isolation of homosexuals, the corrupting influence of Asia's economic boom, the erosion of folkways and the perilous transition from third world deprivation to first world plenitude, to name a few. In short, what's here has a lot more to do with sociopolitics than -- what, esthetics? It's a heavy load; no punches pulled.
Among Indonesian artists, for instance, the topic of government repression looms large. One striking example: at the Asia Society in Manhattan, the installation "Ceremony of the Soul," by Heri Dono, whose orderly rows of static male torsos, in ancient stone and present-day plastic, evoke Buddhist images at Borobudur, a ninth-century sacred monument in central Java. But they are menacingly wired with electronic intelligence devices, a comment on the controlling police state that Indonesia is today.
The still pervasive subjection of Asian women is a theme explored by male and female artists. Kamol Phaosavasdi, a Thai, lambastes sexual tourism in his native country with an inventive installation at the Grey Gallery in Greenwich Village, "Mode of Moral Being." He has turned a Bangkok beer vendor's cart into a quick-service brothel, rigged out with erotic objects and a television loop that mixes images of ancient Thai rituals, bodies in sexual play and interviews with prostitutes. The erotic merchandising of Thai women and children is likened to the selling of fast food.
In the Philippines, a hot feminist issue is the "diaspora" of women lured abroad for jobs as domestic helpers. At the Queens Museum of Art, a poignant tribute to these economic expatriates, "Philipina: DH," by Imelda Cajipe-Endaya, takes the form of a room full of housemaids' props -- an ironing board, worn-out slippers a wall area of maid's uniforms on which are projected television images of the women who wear them -- together with the religious and sentimental trinkets that tie a castaway to roots back home. The subordinate role of women in India is -- paradoxically -- aggressively addressed by Ravinder G. Reddy's bold, life-size and larger sculptures of ethnic women at the Asia Society. Streamlined, stylized echoes of ancient temple carvings, they have gilded bodies and heads that symbolize -- through their stances and modes of adornment -- their inferior position in the country's rigid caste system.
Still, amid the gloom and doom of such offerings as these, there is balm for the soul, and even comic relief. A "sacred space" for meditation that harks back to ancient healing chambers is the Buddhist-inspired "Alokhayasan: Temple of Mind," by a Thai artist, Montien Boonma, at the Asia Society. The smell of ancient medicinal herbs smeared on the walls is said to calm "inner wounds, rage and discontent."
There's humor in the sardonic paintings of Chatchai Puipia from Thailand, whose self-portrait, "Siamese Smile," at the Grey Gallery, is used more or less as the show's logo. A servile, grinning mask of a face that's frightening in its "hit me" expression, it's meant to suggest "corruption and entropy" as the truth behind Thailand's national slogan, "The Land of Smiles."
A low Pop entry that brings a laugh despite its pessimistic message is the giant yellow inflatable robot, "Plastic Happiness," made by the Korean artist Choi Jeong-Hwa and shown at the Queens Museum. A bruiser in outer space attire, it lies supine on the floor, continually struggling -- and failing -- to get to its klutzy feet. Among other things, it represents -- you guessed it -- the hollow materialism of Asia's economic boom.
A long way from the staid offerings usually presented under Asia Society auspices, "Traditions/Tensions: Contemporary Art in Asia" results from a decision made several years ago by the Asia Society Galleries, under the direction of Vishakha N. Desai, to venture into the 20th century. (The first such show, in 1994, was a not-too-exciting presentation of Asian artists working in America.) It was the right decision; the increasing presence of Asia in this country bespeaks the need for strong institutional settings where its contemporary culture can be experienced. And for all its flaws -- a major one is too many weak entries, particularly among the paintings -- and political posturing, "Traditions/ Tensions" is a show that brings us closer to the cultural complexities beneath the bland tourist Asia most of us still envision.

"Contemporary Art in Asia: Traditions/Tensions" is on display at three spaces: the Asia Society, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, through Jan. 5; the Grey Art Gallery and Study Center, at New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, through Dec. 23; and the Queens Museum of Art, New York City Building, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, through Jan. 5.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Korean artist Choi Jeong-Hwa's giant yellow inflatable robot, at the Queens Museum of Art. (Kim Keever/Queens Museum of Art); A section of Heri Dono's "Ceremony of the Soul," at the Asia Society. (Asia Society)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: ASIA SOCIETY; GREY; QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) THE ASIA SOCIETY (59%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA SOCIETY; GREY; QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) THE ASIA SOCIETY (59%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); WOMEN (77%); CHILDREN (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%); RELIGION (62%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (60%); PROSTITUTION (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); 

PERSON: GLUECK, GRACE

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



405 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Prices for Copper Rise Sharply As Kennecott Is Hit by Strike

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Copper prices climbed in New York yesterday after workers at one of the nation's largest mines walked off the job.
On other markets, heating oil and unleaded gasoline prices advanced before giving up some gains. 
 Some 1,600 union workers at the Kennecott Corporation's Bingham Canyon copper mine and smelter in Magna, Utah, began striking late Wednesday. The smelter, west of Salt Lake City, can refine 281,000 tons of copper a year but has been operating at 75 percent of capacity. Officials at Kennecott's parent, the RTZ Corporation, said yesterday that the nation's third-largest smelter was still producing, though they declined to say how much.
If it lasts more than a few days, the strike could worsen one of the tightest stock situations in about a year, said Richard Hirsch, a metals analyst with Deutsche-Sharps Pixley Metals Inc. The robust American economy has drained supplies.
"There continues to be record levels of demand in the face of widely expected mine supply increases," Mr. Hirsch said.
Copper for December delivery rose 2.25 cents, to 90.90 cents a pound on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Heating oil and unleaded gasoline futures rose after the Energy Department reported that stocks of heating oil and other distillate fuels fell 900,000 barrels last week to 111.4 million barrels, while gasoline stocks fell a sharp 2.6 million barrels, to 194.4 million barrels.
The numbers were at odds with the American Petroleum Institute's report, which said heating oil inventories rose 673,000 barrels, to 114.3 million barrels, and that gasoline stocks fell just 509,000 barrels, to 195.8 million barrels. Analysts said that the Government report painted a picture of dangerous tightness.
Gains were muted, though, as some traders sat out, awaiting today's meeting between Energy Secretary Hazel R. O'Leary and top oil executives in Washington. November heating oil rose 0.73 cent, to 72.29 cents a gallon. November unleaded gasoline rose 1.08 cents, to 66.53 cents a gallon.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RIOS (BRU) (84%); RIO (NYSE) (84%); RIO (LSE) (84%); RIO (ASX) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (84%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (84%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (84%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (84%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (72%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KENNECOTT CORP RIO TINTO GROUP (84%); KENNECOTT CORP (72%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: KENNECOTT CORP NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; STRIKES STRIKES (91%); COPPER MARKETS (91%); FUTURES (91%); HEATING OIL (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); COPPER MINING (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); INVENTORIES (70%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (70%); 

PERSON: RICHARD HIRSCH (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



406 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 37; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
End of the Road

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
For Clinton-haters it must have been a hard night. For four years they had worked to destroy Bill Clinton's legitimacy as President, growing ever shriller. Now their chosen instrument in the election, Bob Dole, was visibly failing the challenge.
Senator Dole really became the subject of the debate, and he displayed the characteristics that have made him a strange figure in politics. He was at the same time sympathetic, truculent, serious, off the point, negative. He made no persuasive case against President Clinton or for himself. 
 The point of no return came, for me, when an engineer asked Senator Dole how he could cut taxes and balance the budget at the same time.
"How do we pay for it?" he said. "We're going to have a constitutional amendment to balance the budget."
In other words: Unable or unwilling to say what Federal programs he would kill to pay for his tax cut -- law enforcement? hurricane tracking? -- Senator Dole called for an amendment to make him answer the question some day. The amendment would also, of course, embroil Congress and the country in endless legal controversies -- which is why Congress has had the good sense, so far, to reject the idea.
It was not the only time in the debate that Senator Dole fell back on amending the Constitution as the answer to the country's problems. He also asked for amendments to limit the terms of legislators, to allow prayer in schools and to protect the American flag.
How many voters would put those amendments at the top of the country's needs? Senator Dole's emphasis on them seemed out of focus, out of time.
There was a sourness in him, a negativity that kept surfacing. We have, he said, "the worst economy in 100 years." Even committed Republicans must have been made uncomfortable by that absurd lament.
Another telling moment came when a travel agent asked whether the candidates favored a law to prohibit discrimination against gay men and lesbians in employment. President Clinton had a short answer: "I'm for it. That's my policy."
Senator Dole said he opposed discrimination. But then he added that he did not favor "special rights" for any group. That is a code phrase used by anti-gay movements -- for example, in the Colorado campaign for an amendment prohibiting laws against discrimination based on sexual orientation, which the Supreme Court held unconstitutional.
Even Senator Dole's cracks at ethics in the Clinton White House, which news reports on the debate featured, were unconvincing. They were just that -- cracks -- not a focused, carefully built case. Some of his statements were so cryptic that they could hardly have been understood by most of his audience. It was as if he was, in Alexander Pope's phrase, "willing to wound, yet afraid to strike."
His advisers had been telling Senator Dole that he had to score heavily in this debate if he was to have any chance of overcoming President Clinton's lead in the polls. Perhaps that accounted for the desperation that one occasionally sensed in his answers.
"I don't think we ought to be giving welfare payments to illegal immigrants," he said. We don't. Federal welfare programs exclude illegal aliens. Senator Dole surely knows that, but his desire for California's votes overcame his honesty.
Or again, a man who in the Senate stood firm for Nafta and other trade agreements tried to sound like Ross Perot. "We have to stop exporting jobs," Senator Dole said. To which President Clinton replied, as he did to other scary generalities, with optimistic particulars: human stories.
The game plan of the Dole advisers was to put President Clinton's character on trial in the last debate. But for all the jabbing at "ethics," it did not work out that way. Mr. Clinton came across as serene and Presidential. Senator Dole did not inspire the trust he kept talking about.
There have been grievous faults in Bill Clinton's Presidency. But he is a superb campaigner, and he is lucky: lucky this time, I say with a certain regret for Bob Dole, in his opponent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (87%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (85%); DISCRIMINATION (85%); POLITICS (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX LAW (74%); BUDGETS (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); HURRICANES (73%); ETHICS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); CHURCH & STATE (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (64%); GENDER EQUALITY (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



407 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Among Glossy Blondes, a Showcase for Brazil's Black Faces

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Oct. 16

 BODY:
Glancing at the rows of magazines lining any newsstand in Brazil, a stranger could mistake this racial rainbow of a country for a Nordic outpost. Slender blondes smile from the covers of fashion magazines, and white faces dominate all but the sports glossies.
But last month, Brazil's magazine industry took its first step toward acknowledging the 60 percent of Brazil's 152 million citizens who are black or of mixed race, when the first magazine geared to them made its debut. 
 The magazine, Brazil Race, sold out its first run of 200,000 copies at newsstands before the week was out, prompting the publishers, Editores Simbolo, to print another 100,000.
Declaring its goal as raising self-esteem among blacks, the first issue discussed the percussion music of groups from the colonial slave trading square of Bahia, along with an article on mixed-race marriages and a primer describing the various deities of candomble, an amalgam of Catholicism and the animist religions brought by enslaved Africans, which is still strong among their descendents and, increasingly, Brazilian whites.
The magazine also features fashion, hair and makeup tips, articles on black pride and interviews with successful blacks in Brazil.
Aroldo Macedo, the editor of Brazil Race, said the idea for the magazine came to him when he returned to Brazil after living in New York for six years, and spoke to Editores Simbolo about sponsoring a film documentary on capoeira, a form of Afro-Brazilian martial arts.
The magazine's instant success, he said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo, was exploding three myths of the Brazilian publishing industry: that blacks had negligible purchasing power, that Brazilian blacks were ashamed of their race, and that a magazine with blacks on the cover would never sell.
"It's like these 90 million people are invisible in Brazil," said Mr. Macedo. "Not just for magazines, but for advertising, for fashion, for films, for every sector of the media."
He said the magazine had been deluged with letters from enthusiastic readers. Many suggest ideas for future issues, like one examining the African roots of Brazilian blacks. "It's as if they had a hand over their mouths and somebody's taken the hand away," said Mr. Macedo, who is black. "They have so much to say."
Race has long been a delicate topic in Brazil, where cordial relations between the races and the rarity of racial hate crimes have contributed to the idea of the country as a "racial democracy." But Brazilian blacks remain scarce in the upper levels of government, business and management, and some argue that the storied "racial democracy" is a myth.
Earlier this year, Pele, the retired soccer star who as Minister of Sports is the only black Cabinet member, endured a torrent of criticism after he said politics in Brazil was synonymous with corruption, and suggested that black voters increase their influence by voting for black candidates.
White politicians argued he was promoting racial division in the country by just raising the subject of political representation.
It is that sense of taboo in addressing racial issues, in part, that used to drive Andrea de Fatima Dias, a 26-year-old economic analyst, to buy Ebony magazine even though she could not read English.
"I'd have a colleague at work translate the stories for me," she said. Brazilian magazines, she explained, never dealt with racial issues, let alone black hair or makeup. "The black race is never, ever discussed in those magazines," she said. "That's why we blacks were so happy when this came out."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: BRAZIL RACE (MAGAZINE)

ORGANIZATION: BRAZIL RACE (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BLACKS; MAGAZINES INTERVIEWS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); MARTIAL ARTS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); SLAVERY (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); SOCCER (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); RELIGION (67%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (64%); CORRUPTION (60%); 

PERSON: MACEDO, AROLDO; SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



408 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: On Ukraine's Capitalist Path, Clique Mans Roadblocks

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: DNEPROPETROVSK, Ukraine

 BODY:
Once a closed industrial complex that harbored the Soviet Union's deadliest secrets, this city no longer makes the nuclear missiles that the West lived in fear of. But another danger is emerging here, one that the West and many Ukrainians believe may harm Ukraine itself.
From the President to the Prime Minister to the ministers who oversee national security, agriculture and industry, Ukraine is now run by former Soviet-era politicians from Dnepropetrovsk. At last count there were 204 appointees from the city, including 55 in top-ranking positions, the Ukraine Center for Independent Political Research reports. 
 This new ruling elite, led by President Leonid Kuchma, the former boss of the Soviet Union's biggest missile factory here, and Prime Minister Pavlo Lazarenko, a longtime director of a state farm in the region, is referred to by politicians and the news media as the "clan from Dnepropetrovsk."
There are other political clans -- groups of politicians from the coal-rich Donetsk on the eastern border with Russia and from Lvov in the west -- that compete for power and economic interests.
But since the 1994 election victory of Mr. Kuchma, and in particular since his promotion of Mr. Lazarenko from Energy Minister to Prime Minister in May, the Dnepropetrovsk clan has gained a disproportionate amount of power and access to economic spoils, says the director of the Center for Independent Political Research, Slavko Pikhovshek.
The political power of the Dnepropetrovsk clan has attracted the attention of Washington. In the last two years, Ukraine has become the third largest recipient of American foreign aid, surpassed only by Israel and Egypt. Washington has also urged the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to keep up financial support.
But while Western money has flowed in and the overall economic picture has improved somewhat in the last several months, the Government owes months of back wages and benefits to teachers, doctors, civil servants, miners, soldiers, students and pensioners.
A delegation from Washington led by Richard L. Morningstar, the Clinton Administration's special envoy on economic aid to the former Soviet Union, recently warned senior officials in Kiev of their concern that growing corruption connected to the rise of the Dnepropetrovsk group is seriously impeding Ukraine's slow transition to a market economy.
A former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense in the Clinton Administration, Sherman W. Garnett, who has just written a book on Ukraine's politics, described the clan's influence as "bloodsucking."
"This group from Dnepropetrovsk is choking off benefits that should be trickling down to normal folks by lining their own pockets," he said. "They are prolonging the agony of change that Ukraine is trying to make by a systematic looting of assets."
A spokesman for President Kuchma, Dimitri Markov, acknowledges that the influence of politicians from Mr. Kuchma's Dnepropetrovsk base is "significant." But he said it was "grossly incorrect" to link corruption with politicians from Dnepropetrovsk. "Corruption is a post-Soviet phenomenon that is common all over the region," he said.
Of particular concern to Washington is Prime Minister Lazarenko, who was described by an American official as the "Zyuganov of Ukraine," a reference to Gennadi A. Zyuganov, the unsuccessful Communist candidate for the Russian presidency this year.
Earlier this year, Mr. Lazarenko used his power as Energy Minister to allocate the major trade in imported natural gas to United Energy Systems, a company based in Dnepropetrovsk that is run by a friend of the his, Julia Timashenko.
Ukraine is one of the world's largest importers of natural gas, and trading in gas is the country's most lucrative business, with plenty of room for "hanky-panky," a Western energy expert said.
The decision by Mr. Lazarenko to award most of the gas business to one company and to deprive companies in other regions is thought to have been the genesis of an assassination attempt against Mr. Lazarenko in June, Ukrainian politicians say.
Mr. Markov said President Kuchma was now "very involved in correcting the situation" on natural gas and was preparing a decree intended to open up the process.
Another area in which the Prime Minister has meddled to the detriment of a market economy is agriculture, American officials say.
The officials said the Prime Minister was behind the recent Government order for regional Ukrainian authorities to seize grain shipments and store them exclusively in state warehouses, a return to Soviet-era expropriation tactics. Private investors from the United States, Europe and Ukraine who had already paid for Ukrainian grain and planned to export it have complained they have lost millions of dollars.
Mr. Markov said Mr. Kuchma had signed an order telling regional governors to stop seizing the grain, but American officials say the order seems to have had little effect.
In Dnepropetrovsk, the advantages of having Mr. Lazarenko and former local officials in power is noticeable in several respects.
Suddenly the city's subway construction, which had languished, was completed with national funds, and the first line opened this year.
Similarly the local airport, previously nothing to brag about, has a brand new terminal, allowing Dnepropetrovsk to be the first regional city in Ukraine to receive scheduled direct flights from Western Europe. And the question of who got the airport duty-free concession was only decided after an appeal to Mr. Lazarenko's office in Kiev.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former Soviet officials in Dnepropetrovsk, Ukraine, used their influence in the capital to get the money to complete a languishing subway project. (James Hill for The New York Times)
 
Map of Ukraine showing the location of Dnepropetrovsk. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISRAEL (79%); EGYPT (79%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE; DNEPROPETROVSK (UKRAINE); UKRAINE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISRAEL (79%); EGYPT (79%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); POLITICS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TRENDS (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); BACK PAY (50%); 

PERSON: KUCHMA, LEONID (PRES); LAZARENKO, PAVLO (PRIME MIN); GARNETT, SHERMAN W; PERLEZ, JANE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (81%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



409 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 36; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Tax-Deferred Pay for Executives

 BODY:
The explosive growth of a form of executive pay known as deferred compensation, provided by at least 24,000 companies in the United States, has enriched high-paid executives, ruined retirement savings of middle managers and acted as a stealth tax on shareholders. Few, if any, of the practices described in a Times series on the subject this week look illegal. But some of the plans amount to self-serving manipulation by privileged top managers who care little for others in their companies.
Whether Congress needs to revamp the tax laws is an open question. But at the very least, regulators ought to force corporations to disclose fully how they are using deferred-compensation plans and who benefits or loses. 
 The executive plans differ from traditional pension plans. Ordinary workers are allowed to defer taxes on pension contributions that corporations make on their behalf. But in order to limit the drain on the Treasury, Federal law restricts how much can be deposited in these tax-free accounts. By contrast, highly paid executives are allowed to defer an unlimited amount of their compensation. Unlike ordinary pension accounts, these executive accounts are not federally protected and thus could, in theory, be wiped out by a corporate bankruptcy. But in reality, top executives insure that such loss rarely happens.
Although the number of executives who participate in deferred-compensation plans is unknown, the numbers appear to be mushrooming. Twenty-five years ago, for example, only two I.B.M. executives participated. Today the number at I.B.M. is over 1,000. Some large companies offer such plans to more than 3 percent of their work forces. The New York Times Company offers a deferred-compensation plan to 307 of its managers that limits the amount that can be deferred to an annual bonus and one-third of salary.
The benefit to the executive of deferred compensation is that taxes are postponed until payouts are made, perhaps decades into the future. This right to delay taxes amounts to a tax cut to the individual. Money that would ordinarily be paid to the Government is left in private hands to accumulate at market rates of return. In effect, the Government, by postponing taxes, makes a loan on which it never charges interest. For ordinary workers, the tax break is modest. But the magnitude of the tax cut for high-paid executives can be stunning. Based on estimates by Times reporters, Roberto Goizueta of Coca-Cola has paid taxes on about $75 million in compensation over the past 17 years, but he has deferred tax on about $1 billion.
Corporate executives point out, correctly, that their tax-deferred compensation accounts do not come at other taxpayers' expense. The corporation's own taxes rise by approximately the same amount by which the executive's taxes fall. The question is whether shareholders understand the cost they bear to make their top executives rich in retirement. Deferred-compensation plans are either undisclosed or buried in mountainous filings with the Government, which Times reporters spent six months mining. The rules allow corporations to hide pay packages from those who pay the bill.
The series points to egregious practices. Carter Hawley Hale, the large West Coast retailer, required workers who chose to set up retirement accounts to put the money into company stock. When the company went bankrupt, the value of the stock shriveled. By contrast, the company's chairman, Philip Hawley, and other senior managers had been allowed to put their deferred savings into a wide range of investments that were immunized from the ravages of the bankruptcy. In other cases documented by the series, senior executives at bankrupt companies manipulated their control over negotiations with creditors to protect their retirement savings even as they watched creditors grab the savings of lower-level managers.
Congress will want to take note of one other recent change. As it has made the pension plans for ordinary workers increasingly restrictive, for the sake of balancing the budget, some small businesses have decided to eliminate ordinary pensions for their workers and provide only deferred-compensation plans for executives. The trend exacerbates the growing economic gap between executives and the rank and file. Also, some businesses are extending deferred-compensation plans to lower-level executives -- stretching the law that limits such plans to highly paid officials.
Senior executives defend their deferred-compensation packages as a healthy corporate practice that is needed to attract and keep talented managers. But if they were truly proud of the disguised largess, why have they not protected lower-ranking managers as they protect themselves, or told their shareholders exactly what they are doing?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (66%); KO (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (66%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CARTER HAWLEY HALE NEW YORK TIMES CO (66%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CARTER HAWLEY HALE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; CORPORATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; EDITORIALS; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); INCOME TAX (85%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TAX REFORM (71%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



410 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Issues Post Price Rise

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Buyers returned to the Treasury market yesterday, bidding up prices, after an avalanche of economic data suggested growth was slowing with little chance of inflation's accelerating.
The 30-year bond rose 22/32 , to a price of 9913/32 to yield 6.80 percent, down from 6.85 percent on Wednesday, reflecting rising optimism that Fed policy makers will not need to adjust interest rates for the rest of the year. 
 Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said that market participants apparently concluded that the economic story was beginning to sound like a broken record, slower but healthier growth with subdued and nonthreatening inflation.
Noting that housing starts fell 6 percent in September after rising 4 percent in August, but with the average monthly level of starts during the third quarter only a bit below that of the second quarter, Mr. Fine said, "The concept that higher interest rates have begun to depress housing is still more of a subjective rather than an objective opinion."
The declines put housing starts at their lowest level since December 1995 and building permits at the lowest level since January. Even though housing starts tend to be volatile, this decline, the drop in permits and the recent declines in sales of existing homes suggest that the housing sector as a whole has peaked and activity in now trending lower. Analysts say fewer starts and slower sales will lead to more moderate consumer spending in the next six months or so.
"Despite being depressed by a falloff in motor vehicle output, the 0.2 percent September rise in industrial production was slightly higher than expected," Mr. Fine said. "Unfortunately, the G.M. strike in Canada and its spillover effects in the U.S. have the potential for gumming up the interpretation of next month's October production report, but an upward trend, albeit more moderate, seems to be firmly in place."
Furthermore, he said, the current 83.3 percent reading, from 83.4 percent, on capacity utilization is certainly not suggesting any imminent breakout of inflationary pressures in the industrial sector.
Analysts also noted that the sharp rise in the initial jobless claims by 18,000, to 340,000, in the latest week merely reversed the decline in the prior week, but the trend is still indicating tightness in the labor market. Finally, business inventories rose 0.5 percent in August on the heels of a similar jump in july, which seems to confirm that inventory replenishment will act as a partial offset to the slowdown in consumption in the third quarter,
"Indeed," Mr. Fine said, "the Fed must feel like a happy puppy at the moment given the economy's moderate growth and benign inflation, and while the Federal Open Market Committee is currently maintaining a bias toward tightening in its domestic policy directive, it appears in no rush to execute any change in monetary policy."
Donald H. Straszheim, chief economist at Merrill Lynch & Company, said that with soft payroll data and shrinking retail sales and industrial output pointing toward slower growth, "we expect growth in the third quarter and fourth quarter to come in between 1.5 percent to 2 percent. We look for 2 percent growth during 1997."
The housing decline and the slow growth in production confirm that the slowdown that the Fed had anticipated, had indeed occurred, Ken McCarthy, head of the Economic Intelligence Company, said, adding that he expected the economy to be in a slow-growth mode over the next several months.
Nevertheless, traders and investors have already started looking ahead to the the payroll number that will be released early next month.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds from July to Oct. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES REAL ESTATE (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); TRENDS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUILDING PERMITS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD FINE (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



411 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Latest Data May Indicate The Economy Is Cooling Off

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17

 BODY:
Policy makers and the financial markets received a flurry of new reports today suggesting that the economy was cooling from its overheated pace earlier this year.
The figures showed that the growth of industrial production slowed last month, that higher interest rates were finally putting a crimp in what had been a booming housing market and that the low unemployment rate might be heading upward. 
 The Federal Reserve and investors have been nervous for months that the economy was growing so fast that it would ignite inflation if it did not slow to a more sustainable pace. But signs of accelerating inflation have been scant so far, and the additions today to the body of evidence that growth is slowing has further reduced the chances that Fed policy makers will raise interest rates when it meets next on Nov. 13.
"All the talk from economists about a slowdown has been akin to the hollow refrain about the bogyman coming," said Kenneth T. Mayland, the chief economist for Keycorp, a Cleveland-based banking company. "Well, the bogyman is here."
Today's round of economic statistics set off a bond market rally and helped push stock prices to new levels. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 22/32 , to 9913/32 , sending its yield -- a benchmark for mortgages and other consumer interest rates -- down to 6.8 percent from 6.85 percent. Bond prices and their yields move in opposite directions from each other. The decline in interest rates bolstered stocks, and the Dow Jones industrial average rose 38.39 points, to 6,059.20.
The Commerce Department reported that housing starts fell 6 percent in September, the steepest decline in 21 months. The drop was the third in the last five months, and left housing starts running at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.438 million, its lowest level since last December.
The housing market had remained relatively robust all year long despite a rise of 1.2 percentage points in mortgage rates since the beginning of the year, to an average of 8.23 percent last month for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage.
The fall-off in housing starts covered all regions of the country except the Northeast, where starts edged up by 1.4 percent last month. Starts of single-family homes dropped 8.9 percent, while starts of multifamily buildings rose 6.4 percent.
In its report on industrial production, the Federal Reserve said that the output from the nation's factories, mines and utilities grew two-tenths of a percent last month, half the rate at which it grew in August. The August figures was revised down to four-tenths of a percent from five-tenths.
Although last month's gain was somewhat higher than analysts had expected, much of it came from an increase of four-tenths of a percent in output from utilities. Manufacturing output was up two-tenths of a percent, but automobile and truck production declined for the second consecutive month. Computer production was up 2.3 percent as businesses continued to invest heavily in technology.
Although industrial production continues to increase, albeit at a slower pace, the nation's production capacity has been growing even faster -- 4 percent this year.
As a result, the capacity utilization rate fell slightly in September, to 83.3 percent from 83.4 percent, well below the level where inflationary bottlenecks start pushing prices up.
Another report from the Commerce Department suggested that demand was slackening faster than production. Business inventories in August grew five-tenths of a percent after a revised five-tenths of a percent increase in July, while business sales fell by three-tenths of a percent in August after a 1 percent gain in July.
In a tentative sign that the strong job growth that has driven the economy for much of the year could be easing, the Labor Department said initial claims for unemployment benefits rose by 18,000 last week, to 340,000.
The increase may have been partly a result of the strike at against General Motors in Canada, which has caused suppliers in the United States to curtail production and lay off some workers.
Still, most analysts said employment growth was moderating. Merrill Lynch & Company estimated that payroll employment for October would rise by 150,000, a level that would cause few inflationary fears.
Strong job growth for most of this year and the low unemployment rate -- 5.2 percent in September -- has raised concern at the Fed that tight labor markets would send wages upward, setting off an inflationary spiral.
"Yes, the slowdown is for real, and it looks like it could last long enough to drive the unemployment rate up to a level the Fed is more comfortable with," Macroeconomic Advisers, a St. Louis consulting firm, told its clients today.
Most economists now estimate that the gross domestic product grew around 2 percent in the third quarter, down sharply from the growth rate of 4.7 percent that the economy recorded in the second quarter.

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing industrial production, capacity utilization, inventory-sales ratio and housing construction from May 1995 to Aug. 1996. (Sources: Commerce Department; Federal Reserve Board)(pg. D6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KEY (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) KEYCORP (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS; PRODUCTION; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); SALES; LABOR ; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); STOCK INDEXES (66%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



412 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Decision Reduces Penalty On Chrysler in California

BYLINE: By ANDREA ADELSON 

 BODY:
A California regulator yesterday ordered the Chrysler Corporation to halt shipments of cars and trucks to the state for 45 days -- rather than the 60 days that had been proposed -- as punishment for selling 116 used vehicles without disclosing that they had been repurchased under the state's "lemon law."
Chrysler said it intended to appeal the ruling to a state board that reviews disputes involving car makers. The penalty, the harshest so far by any state for violations of lemon laws, is scheduled to begin on Nov. 26, but could be delayed considerably or reversed during the appeal. 
 "We maintain that we were in full compliance then and still are," said James L. Crawford, a company spokesman.
The decision would also prohibit Chrysler from reselling lemons in California for three years. Chrysler has said it buys back thousands of vehicles from dissatisfied customers each year under state lemon laws and simply out of good will. The company would not estimate how many come from California.
Rosemary Shahan, president of Consumers for Auto Reliability and Safety, a group based in Sacramento, Calif., praised the decision. "It's the first time a state has suspended an auto maker's license," she said. Ms. Shahan said the length of the suspension was less significant than its potential effect on customer attitudes.
The order, by Sally R. Reed, the director of the State Department of Motor Vehicles, came after a hearing in August when a Chrysler expert testified that a 60-day ban on shipments would cost California dealers up to $26 million in lost sales. Ms. Reed estimated that the shorter ban would cost the state's 240 Chrysler dealers about $15.5 million.
The California Motor Car Dealers Association had asked for forbearance. "Thinly capitalized dealers may not be able to financially weather such a state-inflicted cutoff," the group said in a letter to Ms. Reed.
Chrysler dealers could continue to sell vehicles from their inventories if the ban on shipments were upheld. Still, any suspension is likely to hurt Chrysler in California, where its market share is lower than in the rest of the nation. In this year's first half, Chrysler had a 9.5 percent market share, compared with 14 percent nationally. But its Ram pickups and Town and Country mini-vans are among the top-selling vehicles in the state, according to a September report by J. D. Power & Associates.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; USED CARS AUTOMOBILE CONSUMER PROTECTION (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); APPEALS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); MARKET SHARE (69%); TESTIMONY (64%); 

PERSON: ADELSON, ANDREA SALLY R REED (74%); ROSEMARY SHAHAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



413 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Pearson Picks An American As Executive

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
Marjorie M. Scardino, chief executive of the Economist Group, which publishes The Economist magazine, was named chief executive yesterday of Pearson P.L.C., the British media conglomerate that owns 50 percent of the Economist Group.
Ms. Scardino, 49, will be the first American to head Pearson and the only woman heading one of Britain's largest publicly traded companies. 
 "She's a very strong character; she's a successful manager; she's very profit-oriented, and has been very successful at The Economist," said Michael Blakenham, the chairman of Pearson. "I think she'll be a strong leader of the team."
Ms. Scardino will succeed Frank Barlow, who is retiring at the end of the year. Pearson also named Dennis Stevenson deputy chairman -- effective immediately -- and said he would succeed Mr. Blakenham at Pearson's annual general meeting next May. Mr. Stevenson had been a director of the company.
Among Pearson's other media holdings are The Financial Times, as well as newspapers in France and Spain; the Penguin Group, one of the largest trade book publishers, and a production and distribution television company. Pearson also bought the educational side of HarperCollins Publishers earlier this year from the News Corporation for $580 million and merged it with the educational publisher Addison-Wesley Longman.
In addition, MCA Inc., the entertainment division of the Seagram Company, is reportedly in talks to sell its Putnam Berkeley Publishing Group to Pearson for more than $300 million.
The job Ms. Scardino faces, analysts say, is a formidable one. Pearson, a $6.2 billion company, has experienced some growing pains over the last few years in shifting its emphasis from a wide array of businesses -- including engineering, fine china and insurance -- to information, education and entertainment. Some analysts are wary of the company's volatile profits and say it lacks focus.
Last summer, the company reported a 40 percent drop in profits from the first half of the year, due largely to losses at Mindscape, formerly called Software Tools Inc., which develops Internet software and computer games. Pearson bought the California-based Mindscape in May 1994 for $460 million. In August, Pearson said that the unit had a first-half operating loss of 38.8 million, or $61.48 million, and estimated the full-year loss at 44.8 million, or $71 million.
Seemingly in response, the company decided to sell its Westminster Press regional newspaper unit for $470.4 million to Newsquest Media Group, which is backed by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company.
And it looks as if it will take some time for Ms. Scardino to build support in London's financial community. Pearson shares dropped yesterday on the London Stock Exchange 11.5 pence, or 18.25 cents, to 676.5 pence, or $10.72, following the announcement of Ms. Scardino's appointment.
Analysts said the negative market reaction was largely due to the fact that they are not familiar with Ms. Scardino and that they were expecting the appointment of a heavy-hitter from outside the company.
"She's an unknown quantity," said David Forster, an analyst with Salomon Brothers in London.
Indeed, Ms. Scardino herself -- who became head of the Economist Group in 1992 after serving as president of the company's North American operations -- attributed her cool reception to the low profile she maintained at The Economist, where the magazine does not have a masthead and Ms. Scardino avoided press attention. "I spent the last decade saying no to profiles and interviews and now I'm paying for it," Ms. Scardino said. "I still think I was right, but it means they don't know me."
Although Mr. Blakenham credits Ms. Scardino with taking The Economist's profits from about $19 million three and a half years ago to $38 million last year, The Economist amounts to a small part of Pearson's operations, and Ms. Scardino concedes she has a lot to learn about the company as a whole. "I don't know the company very well," she said. "So I will have to get to know it."
Nevertheless, there are those who believe Ms. Scardino could be just the person to give Pearson the push it needs. "I think the market's reaction is a bit shortsighted," said Rebecca Winnington-Ingram of Morgan Stanley & Company, who gave Pearson an underperform rating in her report on the stock last month. "Yes, she isn't a man and she isn't a complete outsider and she's not a heavy-hitter. But she's done some remarkable things with The Economist. I think she's very good news."

 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (96%); PSO (NYSE) (96%); NWS (NASDAQ) (67%); NWS (ASX) (67%); KKR (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (96%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (67%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (61%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (70%); SPAIN (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: PEARSON PLC; ECONOMIST GROUP; ECONOMIST (MAGAZINE) PEARSON PLC (96%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (91%); NEWS CORP (67%); SEAGRAM CO LTD (66%); KKR & CO LP (61%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (55%); WESTMINSTER PRESS (51%); NEWSQUEST MEDIA GROUP (51%); THE ECONOMIST GROUP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEARSON PLC; ECONOMIST GROUP; ECONOMIST (MAGAZINE) THE ECONOMIST GROUP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (70%); SPAIN (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EXECUTIVES (91%); PUBLISHING (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (85%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%); 

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN; SCARDINO, MARJORIE M; BARLOW, FRANK MARJORIE SCARDINO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



414 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 20; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Suffolk Officers Awarded Large Raise

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

 BODY:
An arbitrator this week awarded Suffolk County police officers an 18.6 percent wage increase over the next four years, raising fears among New York City officials that the increase might complicate negotiations with their officers and spur an exodus from the city force.
City officers have long complained that they are paid far less than their counterparts in the Suffolk and Nassau County departments, even though city officers say they have a far more dangerous job. To gain parity, the city officers have sought to have a state board take up the issue of their salaries in hopes that they would be granted wages similar to the suburban forces. 
 The gap between the city and suburban forces grows even larger with the arbitrator's ruling, which increases the base pay for officers, from $59,540 in 1996 to $70,658.
City officers with five years' experience receive base pay of $44,500, according to a spokesman for the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association. In addition, officers with 20 years or more experience receive $5,000 annual longevity bonuses.
The president of the P.B.A., Lou Matarazzo, stopped short of saying he would refuse any contract proposal that did not match the Suffolk officers' gains. But he did reiterate the union's longstanding complaint that city officers were underpaid and that suburban pay rates should be used as a gauge for the city's contract talks.
"I have no problem with suburban forces' making the kind of money they do," Mr. Matarazzo said. "I would just like some equity."
Publicly, city officials and police commanders say the salaries of suburban officers should not affect negotiations with city officers, because the city's bargaining position is dictated by its own budget concerns.
The city's contract with the police union expired in March 1995, and talks are at a standstill. City officials have said they expect the police to accept the pattern of wages that other city unions have agreed to. The teachers, for example, agreed to a two-year wage freeze followed by a 13 percent increase over the last three years of a five-year contract.
"This administration has been ready and willing to come to the bargaining table to discuss the issue of raises." A. Dwight Williams, a spokesman for Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, said. "Unfortunately, the P.B.A. has not."
Some police commanders worry that the growing wage gap between city and suburban departments could add to the growing number of city officers who leave for better paying positions in the suburbs, where many city officers live anyway.
Officer Kenneth Franz, who has been on the city force for 11 years, said he was exasperated that the Giuliani administration had asked the police to work harder, with the crackdown on low-level crimes, while balking at rewarding officers with raises.
"I'll take the Suffolk test," Officer Franz said. "What have I got to lose? If they call me, they call me. You'll see a lot more city cops taking the test. The city spends all this money to train cops here, and they go somewhere else."
Even in other suburban departments, where the pay is close to the Suffolk scale, officers were surprised, albeit pleasantly, at the size of the raises. Nassau officers, who have a top minimum of $59,522 a year and recently began mediation, consider the Suffolk pact "a fair deal," said Gary DelaRaba, the president of the Nassau P.B.A.
In Westchester County, where the 237 county officers are paid $54,000 a year after four years on the job, union leaders said they were awed by the Suffolk deal.
"All the world is talking about Suffolk County," the president of the Westchester P.B.A., Gary T. McGrath, said. "They deserve it. We wish we could join it."
The arbitrator in the case, Martin F. Scheinman, said he arrived at his decision by studying the county's recent contract agreement with police supervisors and other county employees.
The pact calls for a 5.5 percent increase retroactive from Feb. 1, 1996, followed by 4 percent raises for each of the next three years.
Although the raises exceed the 2.9 percent-a-year inflation rate on Long Island, Mr. Scheinman said, the 5.5 percent raise matches the new contract given to the superior officers. "Once that happens," he said, "that's the pattern."
Union officials in New York City have tried to gain similar salaries for their members. In the last year the leaders have engaged an increasingly contentious battle with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki.
After a fierce lobbying campaign in Albany, legislators passed a bill to let state arbitrators, whom many labor leaders consider friendly to unions, to determine city officers' salaries. When Mr. Pataki vetoed the bill, the Legislature overrode the veto.
A city judge struck down the law after the city had argued that it undercut the city's ability to control union negotiations. The P.B.A. is appealing that ruling.
"This is a high-risk job, and police should be paid accordingly," Mr. Matarazzo said. "And the same should be done for police officers in the City of New York."
But many officers acknowledge that the excitement of the city and the New York Police Department's national reputation sometime compensate for the lower pay.
"I have no interest in working in Suffolk," said an officer in the 23d Precinct who would not give his name. "I want to work in the city. I like the challenge."
At least 650 officers have left the force for other police jobs from 1990 to 1995, according to department figures, with 351 joining the Nassau and Suffolk departments. That migration is troubling, because it costs the city $25,000 to recruit and train each officer.
Police Commissioner Howard Safir declined to comment on the issue.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Suffolk County police officers have been awarded an 18.6 percent raise over four years. At the 4th Precinct station house in Hauppauge yesterday, Officers James Scandariato and Christine Ward reported for work. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "A COMPARISON: How Much They Make" shows a comparison of the top pay of Suffolk county police officers to top officer pay in neighboring counties. (Source: city police departments)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (92%); CITIES (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); BUDGETS (64%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



415 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 17; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: New York City Sues Big Tobacco Companies to Recoup Health Costs

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
New York City sued the major tobacco companies yesterday to recoup the billions of dollars that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said the city has spent to care for people with illnesses caused by smoking.
The suit angered one of the city's largest and most influential corporations, Philip Morris, which is the biggest maker of cigarettes in the world. 
 Mr. Giuliani joins a growing movement by officials across the country to seek damages from tobacco companies for the health care costs of smoking. Seventeen states and more than a dozen localities have already filed similar suits, trying to end the companies' long record of courtroom successes.
At a news conference, the Mayor asserted that the major tobacco companies had waged a decades-long campaign to dupe the public into believing that cigarettes were not addictive or harmful. He brushed aside the possibility that Philip Morris, which is based in Manhattan and donates millions of dollars a year to cultural groups in the city, might retaliate.
"I never am affected by people who threaten," he said. "If they want to leave the city of New York, we can replace those jobs with other jobs. We will do just as well."
Philip Morris assailed the lawsuit but said it was not considering shifting jobs from the city at this time. In 1994, the company had suggested that it might leave after the city approved tough restrictions on smoking in restaurants and other public places.
Charles R. Wall, a senior vice president at Philip Morris, said, "It is regrettable that a duly elected official feels so little constraint by law or fact that he willingly jumps on what is perceived by some to be the politically correct bandwagon of tobacco litigation."
Of the lawsuits in the 17 states, three are scheduled to go to trial next year, said Richard A. Daynard, chairman of the Tobacco Products Liability Project at Northeastern University in Boston. Trial in the first, Mississippi's, is expected to open in March, he said.
Mr. Giuliani said he wanted to recover money that the city has spent on Medicaid, care for the indigent and health insurance premiums for city workers. As the Mayor noted, a Columbia University study had found that tobacco use costs the city $300 million a year. The Health and Hospitals Corporation, the quasi-public agency that runs the municipal hospitals, is also bringing the lawsuit, which was filed yesterday in State Supreme Court in Manhattan.
The Mayor acknowledged that the legal battle against the tobacco companies would be long and difficult, but he said he was acting to protect the fiscal health of the city and the physical health of its residents. "In New York City, this deceit has caused enormous suffering and death," he said. "And it has huge economic repercussions."
New York State is not among those that have filed lawsuits against the tobacco companies, while New Jersey and Connecticut are. The New York Attorney General, Dennis C. Vacco, has questioned whether such lawsuits would be successful, contending that it might be better to negotiate settlements with the tobacco companies.
In a statement, Mr. Vacco, a Republican, emphasized that he had not ruled out filing a suit.
Some Democrats in Albany have charged that Mr. Vacco wants to keep good relations with the tobacco companies, which have contributed heavily to Republicans leaders in New York and nationally.
Soon after Mr. Vacco took office in 1995, he hired the husband of one of Philip Morris's top lobbyists in the state, Sharon Portnoy. Her husband, Steven Portnoy, worked in Mr. Vacco's community affairs office in New York City before stepping down earlier this year.
Christopher McKenna, a spokesman for Mr. Vacco, said the Attorney General did not give the job to Mr. Portnoy to curry favor with Philip Morris. Mr. Portnoy, he said, "is well known and has a great deal of experience in government."
The Portnoys declined to comment.
Mr. Giuliani, who has tried in recent months to improve his relationship with fellow Republicans in Albany, said he would "advise the state to file a lawsuit for the same reasons that we did." But he added, "They have to make their own decisions."
The city's Public Advocate, Mark Green, a Democrat, was one of the first city officials to push for the lawsuit. He and two Democratic Assemblymen from Manhattan, Richard N. Gottfried and Alexander B. Grannis, praised the Mayor while attacking Mr. Vacco. They said that in addition to New York City, Erie County, which includes Buffalo, was filing a suit against the tobacco companies.
"The Attorney General has dropped the ball on this issue," Mr. Grannis said. "While he continues to coddle the cigarette companies, the chief executives of two big counties have stepped into the void."
Mr. Vacco's aides dismissed such talk as political posturing. And the Attorney General said in his statement that he would monitor the city's lawsuit.
"I plan to carefully study today's action by Mayor Giuliani to measure if it will contribute to achieving my primary goal of reducing the incidence of teen-age smoking," Mr. Vacco said.
In the confrontation between the city and Philip Morris in 1994, the company was said to have pressured the many arts and cultural groups that it supports with grants to lobby city officials on its behalf. Philip Morris executives did not say yesterday whether they would adopt a similar strategy this time, but they did go out of their way to stress the company's financial contributions to the city.
They said Philip Morris had 1,500 workers in the city who earned $165 million a year in wages, generating $50 million in taxes. They added that the company spent millions on philanthropy.
"Philip Morris believes that the city will lose," a company statement said of the lawsuit. "In the end, it will be the taxpayers of New York City who will pay the price for Mayor Giuliani's blatant political grandstanding."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (92%); PMI (SWX) (92%); PM (PAR) (92%); PM (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC ALTRIA GROUP INC (92%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; SUITS AND LITIGATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH TOBACCO INDUSTRY (93%); SMOKING (92%); TOBACCO MFG (92%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); MAYORS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DAMAGES (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); HOSPITALS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); MEDICAID (76%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



416 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: SHAKE-UP IN RUSSIA: IN WASHINGTON;
For White House, Lebed's Dismissal Is a Case of Dogs Fighting Under a Carpet

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17

 BODY:
Senior American officials have long expected that President Boris N. Yeltsin would eventually oust his national security chief, Aleksandr I. Lebed, but they were surprised by the timing, several said today.
The United States is being very careful not to get involved in what it regards a matter of internal Russian politics, the officials stressed, but they are worried that the popular but controversial peace settlement Mr. Lebed negotiated with seessionists in Chechnya could unravel. 
 They see little effect on Russian-American relations, where Mr. Lebed had not yet become an important player. Defense Secretary William J. Perry, in Moscow to urge the Russian Parliament to ratify the second strategic arms reduction treaty, or Start-2, told reporters that the personal and security ties among high Russian and American officials are "strong and growing."
"I don't see any fundamental change in the U.S.-Russian relationship in terms of this announcement," he said.
But Mr. Lebed's sudden ouster only adds to the uncertainty about Russia's stability while Mr. Yeltsin is awaiting a heart operation, the officials say.
They have no evidence that Mr. Lebed, as alleged, was planning a military coup, and they compare the intricate and shadowy power struggle in Moscow, as Churchill once did, to dogs fighting under a carpet.
But they stress that Mr. Lebed, who has recently fought with both Defense Minister Igor N. Rodionov and Interior Minister Anatoly Kulikov, will find little support in the Yeltsin Government. And they expect that his lavish coverage in the mainstream Russian press will sharply diminish.
"It's clear Lebed's ambitions are titanic, but it's not clear he has the talents to match," a senior American official said. "This is no longer the Soviet Union, and the key is whether Lebed can turn his personal popularity into a lasting political organization with big financing that works for him. He doesn't strike me as someone who builds organizations. Douglas MacArthur was a very popular general, too, but never made it politically."
Mr. Lebed, whose presidential candidacy was in part promoted and financed by a Yeltsin team worried about the revived Communist Party, lost a great deal of his appeal to Mr. Yeltsin after the Russian runoff election on July 3, the officials say.
"It was clear he was no team player and did not like being a loyal subordinate, so it was always a combustible mix," an official said.
As for the immediate spark, it was likely to have been a combination of Mr. Yeltsin's approaching surgery and Mr. Lebed's overreaching, including his relationship with a former Yeltsin crony, Aleksandr Korzhakov, and the public suggestion that Mr. Yeltsin hand over his powers while under hospital care.
Mr. Yeltsin was never going to take kindly to the implication that his second term was already over, the officials say, and his top aides, from the chief of staff, Anatoly B. Chubais, to Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, were likely to have reminded Mr. Yeltsin of his struggle with another general in Afghanistan whom Mr. Yeltsin elevated, the former Vice President Aleksandr Rutskoi, who led a 1993 coup attempt.
Dimitri Simes, of the Nixon Center for Peace and Freedom, a Washington research institute, said Yeltsin aides probably judged it better to get rid of the ambitious Mr. Lebed now, while Mr. Yeltsin is well enough to do it personally and on camera, rather than risk having Mr. Lebed challenge presidential decisions and competence after the surgery.
Jack F. Matlock, a former American Ambassador in Moscow, said the ouster will only make Mr. Lebed more popular.
"This may be as bad a blunder as Gorbachev throwing Yeltsin out in 1987, giving Lebed no alternative but to go into public opposition," Mr. Matlock said. "Who knows what stories they peddled to Yeltsin about Lebed? In the byzantine intrigue characteristic there, one can only guess. And Yeltsin tends to act quickly and be more mercurial."
But the Clinton Administration position, so close to the American Presidential election, did not allow for speculation. The State Department spokesman, Nicholas Burns, said: "The Russian Government is stable, led by President Yeltsin. This is dramatic. It's important. We're not exactly sure where it's going to lead in the future but the relationship is stable and this is what matters ultimately to the American people."
A White House official added, "Yeltsin stepped in and made a presidential decision, within his constitutional prerogatives, to put his own house in order. Clinton has a strong relationship with Yeltsin." The same official said the regular contacts between Prime Minister Chernomyrdin and Vice President Al Gore are "one of the most effective channels we have."
But given Mr. Lebed's popularity and Mr. Yeltsin's ill health, American officials see no reason to take sides in this battle. They are aware that should Mr. Yeltsin die in office, Mr. Chernomyrdin, who would take over as Acting President, must call elections within three months, and that Mr. Lebed would have a good chance of winning.
Stephen Sestanovich of the Carnegie Endowment, now in Moscow, wondered if the Government could keep the Lebed dismissal from "spilling out into the Parliament or the society at large."
Communist and other opposition legislators are bound to try to investigate the dismissal, he said, which may give Mr. Lebed the chance to focus larger opposition to the Government on questions of corruption, crime and economic distress. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); DOGS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); COUPS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); HOSPITALS (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (55%); ARMED FORCES (51%); 

PERSON: LEBED, ALEKSANDR M (GEN); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN ALEKSANDR I LEBED (96%); BORIS N YELTSIN (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



417 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 20; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Top Democrat Proposes Plan On Preschool Access for All

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Oct. 17

 BODY:
The top Democratic leader in the General Assembly today proposed making preschool available to every 4-year-old in the state, saying that it would ultimately save tens of millions of dollars on education, social programs and prisons.
State Representative Thomas D. Ritter, the Speaker of the House, said that about one-third of the children entering kindergarten in Connecticut had not attended any preschool program, increasing the likelihood that they would need special assistance in school later and might end up on welfare or in prison. 
 "Politicians always talk about how you save money," Mr. Ritter said at a news conference. "This is how you do it. It's a double win. You take care of our youngsters now and keep them out of the criminal justice system and off welfare later."
The remarks came at an event in which Mr. Ritter and State Representative Ellen Scalettar proposed presenting the state budget in a new way that would place greater emphasis on "preventive" programs. Under the plan, which Gov. John G. Rowland has agreed to implement, a host of programs that agencies classify as preventive will be listed in a separate section of the budget.
In discussing the new budget format, Mr. Ritter cited preschool as perhaps the best example of how increased attention to preventive measures is sound fiscal policy. While Mr. Ritter had no specific proposal for expanding preschool, he said it would be his "biggest priority" next year.
Mr. Ritter, a politician who chooses his issues carefully, rarely makes such statements, and several top lawmakers said the time appeared ripe for legislation to expand preschool education.
Over the years, Connecticut has lagged behind other states in its pre-school policy. Elaine Zimmerman, executive director of the State Commission on Children, a nonpartisan legislative agency, said that unlike 40 other states, Connecticut had failed to develop a comprehensive policy on early childhood education for disadvantaged children.
But in the last two years, two developments have increased the pressure on Connecticut to expand its preschool offerings. First, the state adopted a new welfare program that required recipients to find work, increasing the need for child-care placements. Second, a landmark State Supreme Court decision three months ago in the case known as Sheff v. O'Neill has been widely interpreted as an order to improve the quality of education offered to children in the state's cities.
Some top Republicans have embraced the idea of expanding preschool opportunities.
While saying that universal access to preschool may not be needed, State Senator Judith G. Freedman, the Republican co-chairwoman of the legislature's education committee, said the state needed to insure its availability to needy children. "I'm a believer in this," she said.
And Dean Pagani, Governor Rowland's spokesman, said Mr. Rowland was "in favor of expanding educational opportunities for everyone, and that would include preschool," though he added that it remained to be seen whether money could be found for it in tight fiscal times.
Mr. Ritter said today that the state was expecting a windfall of $65 million to $80 million under the new Federal welfare block grants. He estimated that it would cost about $75 million to provide preschool for many of the 15,000 children who currently do not attend. While some parents may prefer to keep their children at home, many others do not enroll their children in preschool because they cannot afford it.
Mr. Ritter said that national and state studies had shown that $1 in preschool spending saved up to $6 in future spending for special education, social services, and court and prison costs. He estimated that putting all of Connecticut's children in preschool would save $425 million over the course of their lifetimes.
"If we know we will save substantial taxpayer dollars in years to come by spending more on preschool now, and we know preschool has social and personal benefits for society," he said, "then why can't we look at covering the remaining one-third of children who are not getting preschool?"
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDUCATION (PRE-SCHOOL) POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CHILDREN (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); CHILD CARE (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); INSURANCE POLICIES (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); APPEALS (50%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN; RITTER, THOMAS D (SPEAKER) WILLIAM M THOMAS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



418 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Dole Gives Impetus to Changing the Tax Code

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17

 BODY:
In Bob Dole's rhetorical shorthand, the issue comes down to a few snappy phrases that draw sustained cheers whenever he uses them on the campaign trail: a tax system that is "simpler, flatter and fairer," and "ending the I.R.S. as we know it."
But despite making replacement of the tax code a central element of his plan to strengthen the economy, Mr. Dole has neither offered nor endorsed any specific alternative to the current income tax system. Instead he stays with generalities, largely because he recognizes that any big change would produce a lot of losers as well as winners. 
 To some degree, of course, Mr. Dole's decision to give the issue no more than a tentative embrace -- despite its apparent popular appeal -- reflects his pledge to address taxes first by cutting rates 15 percent under the existing system.
But there are clearly other factors at play. Mr. Dole's running mate, Jack Kemp, is a fervent advocate of scrapping the entire tax code and starting over with a new system, preferably a single rate "flat" tax. Mr. Dole, a former chairman of the tax-writing Senate Finance Committee, is much more a legislative pragmatist who recognizes, aides said, just how complex and politically charged the topic is.
Any serious effort to change the way the Federal Government raises revenue has immense economic and political implications and would set off an epic battle among interest groups, catching proponents of any new system in the middle.
Still, even if he loses the Presidential race, Mr. Dole has given added prominence to the issue, which has long preoccupied the Republican Party's tax-cutting wing and has recently been taken up by some liberal Democrats, like Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the minority leader in the House. Republican leaders in Congress say that if they retain control of the House, where tax legislation originates, they will press ahead next year with a concerted effort to toss out the tax code.
"The nation is fed up with the existing tax code and we all know it," said Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader who is one of the most prominent advocates of a flat tax. "We're going to replace it with something, as soon as possible."
Ever since Steve Forbes sought the Republican Presidential nomination on a flat tax platform, a debate has been raging about how to deal with the issue that all of the leading alternatives, whatever their overall economic benefit, tend to favor the wealthy over the middle class.
Moreover, any effort to scrap the system would set off fights over whether, say, homeowners should lose the mortgage interest deduction or whether all corporate loopholes should be closed. Congress would have to make tough decisions about balancing lower overall tax rates against further spending cuts.
"The political reality is that revenue-neutral tax reform is bound to have losers as well as winners," said Joel Slemrod, director of the Office of Tax Policy Research at the University of Michigan.
Part of the drive for a new tax system is what many politicians view as widespread discontent with the system's complexity and loopholes. But many supporters of change argue that the primary rationale for a new system is economic. The current system, they say, inhibits savings and investment and encourages consumption -- exactly the opposite of what the nation needs if it is to improve living standards and enhance its global competitiveness. All the alternatives reduce or eliminate taxes on savings and investment, a shift that advocates contend will result in improved productivity and growth rates, but which opponents warn also risks greater inequality.
"I believe it will launch economic growth the like of which we have not seen since right after World War II," said Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.
Mr. Archer favors a "consumption" tax that would put levies on goods and services rather than income, thereby creating incentives for more savings and investment. A consumption tax could be a national sales tax, for example, or a European-style value added tax.
Mr. Armey's flat tax would have a similar effect, but would do so by exempting income from profits, interest and dividends while imposing a single rate on earnings and pensions, after large exemptions for many taxpayers. Senators Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat, and Pete V. Domenici, a Republican from New Mexico, have proposed keeping the basic income tax system but with exemptions for savings and some educational costs.
The Clinton Administration has so far been unenthusiastic about a fundamental change, saying that all the alternatives are flawed.
"Nothing we've seen so far at least meets the criteria of being clearly better than what we have today," Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said. "Every single taxpayer would have interests at stake, sometimes in complex ways." He added that any serious effort at change would take up so much time and political capital that other pressing issues would be pushed aside.
But fearful of ceding a politically popular issue to the Republicans, Congressional Democrats have been drafting proposals of their own. Representative Gephardt recently proposed sweeping changes to the system that he said would allow three-quarters of taxpayers to pay a 10 percent rate without the need to file a lengthy return.
"Democrats must not fight this crucial tax debate on Republican ground," Mr. Gephardt said.
If elected, Mr. Dole would settle on a specific plan only after wide consultations, aides said. But his campaign has issued a list of goals. They include ending special interest loopholes, reducing income tax rates, allowing most taxpayers to file on a form no bigger than a postcard or not to file a return at all, and allowing Social Security taxes to be deducted from income.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS REPUBLICAN (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; INCOME TAX; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 TAXES & TAXATION (96%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); TAX LAW (91%); INCOME TAX (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); POLITICS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (61%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; STEVENSON, RICHARD W BOB DOLE (92%); BILL ARCHER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



419 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 22; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Two Different Pleas for Change: Excerpts From a Second Senate Debate

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from last night's debate in Trenton between Robert G. Torricelli, a Democrat, and Richard A. Zimmer, a Republican, as transcribed by The New York Times.
 
Opening Statements
TORRICELLI For several months Dick Zimmer and I have been campaigning around New Jersey, asking for your help to get elected to the United States Senate. I know you're disappointed in the campaign. So am I. It's deteriorated into personal accusations and acrimony. But in truth, this campaign isn't about me. And it's not about Dick Zimmer. It's about you, your families and your future. It's also not about taxes or spending. I voted for a tax cut last year. So did Dick Zimmer. I voted for the balanced budget amendment. And so did Dick Zimmer. Ultimately this election is about who will be on your side when the difficult decisions are made that affect your family. . . .
Tonight is a last chance to raise the level of this debate and the campaign. I intend to seize it. It's an important moment for your state and a last chance for us.
ZIMMER I believe that this campaign is about nothing less than the future of the American dream. I grew up in modest circumstances. My dad was a mailman. My mother sold encyclopedias. But I was able to live the American dream. And I'm concerned that children growing up now and in the future have that same opportunity. And they will, but only if we fundamentally change the way Government does business. We've got to reduce taxes and balance the budget, not just talk about it but do it so that we can have a brighter future for our children and so families can help make ends meet. We've got to be able to have a cleaner and healthier environment for our children than the one that we grew up in. We have to assure that our families are safe in the streets and in their homes. And we have to have representatives that reflect the views of the people they represent, who show up and vote for you and actually participate in the great decisions that affect this country. If we do those things, we will be able to restore the American dream.
 
Tone of the Campaign
TORRICELLI I think that indeed it has gotten so bad that whoever wins this contest may serve in the United States Senate but not really have the confidence of the people of this state and be able to govern. A group of ministers came to each of us a week ago and asked us to sign a pledge that we would stop all negative advertising. I did so in a second, so we could just talk about the families of this state, the future, Medicare, environmental protection and education. Mr. Zimmer wouldn't sign that pledge. So I made a universal pledge but complied only to myself, and that is that I would only talk about Federal issues and votes in the United States Congress. . . .
ZIMMER Well, I signed the pledge against negative campaigning last month when it was presented to me by the Perot organization. And I've kept that pledge, because my ads are true and they are relevant to the job of United States senator.
I believe that people are responsible for their own actions. And the advertisements that are running in my name, that describe Bob Torricelli's actions, are true. And I can understand why he wouldn't want people to see some of these things. But unfortunately for him, they've been reported by reputable organizations and he did conceal evidence about a South Korean, a fugitive from justice. He did speak to a radical Hamas-oriented group. He did bounce more checks that anybody else in the House bank. . . .
 
Education
ZIMMER I'm concerned that there are schools, particularly in some of our urban areas in this state, that are betraying the children they're supposed to serve. The children are graduating, through no fault of their own, without the skills that they need to cope in the new global economy. And that's why they need the same right that the wealthy have already had by being able to send their kids to prep school, that the middle class have always had by being able to move to a community with good public schools, but the poor can't have because they can't move out and they're sending their kids to schools which the teachers themselves won't send their own children to.
I believe that the best thing that we could do for the public schools is to give them a dose of competition. And just like any other monopoly, the public schools have become arrogant and expensive and unresponsive to the people they're supposed to serve. And that's why I'm in favor of vouchers. . . .
TORRICELLI Dick, the public schools don't need your compliments. We need your vote. The voucher system would give up on public education in this state. It would take needed resources away from schools in suburban and urban districts that are already struggling to survive. Competition among public schools makes sense. Use vouchers among different school districts to see who has the best program. . . .
 
Harvard Jee
TORRICELLIThere are times in life when your character is tested. I got a call from a family that I had known years before that I did legal work for as a private attorney that told me that a little girl didn't have a place to go to school. And she didn't have a place to live. She had been abandoned. I found her a school. I haven't seen or known of her father in many, many years. And I hold no grief for her father. He abandoned his child. I did the best I could, had a lawyer send documents to the American Embassy in order to get permission to send her into school. Those documents came back signed and notarized. There have been outrageous charges made in this. The fact of the matter is, I did what I thought was right. . . .
ZIMMER Well, The Record of Hackensack ran an editorial about Bob Torricelli's answers to these questions and they called it Torricelli's tap dance. The fact is that Bob has not answered these questions adequately. . . .
 
Closing Statements
 ZIMMER The difference between Bob Torricelli and me is that Bob Torricelli believes that more government will create a greater America. Well, he's wrong. The only thing we'll get from more government and more taxes and more regulation and litigation is a bigger bureaucracy. I'd like to take this country down a different path. I'd like to take it down a path that, of more freedom and opportunity and growth and personal responsibility. . . .
TORRICELLI You know, when I hear a candidate engaged in personal attacks or distorting somebody's record, I get a little suspicious. Dick, you know that you've missed more votes than I have. . . .
In our state, we've never engaged in this kind of politics. Democrats and Republicans have had their differences, but we stayed on issues. Something is going wrong. We can build a wonderful future in this country, but we've got to make the public discourse decent again. . . .

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DEBATING POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); BUDGETS (88%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (69%); MEDICARE (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); 

PERSON: TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (REPR); ZIMMER, RICHARD A (REPR) DICK ZIMMER (95%); ROBERT G TORRICELLI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



420 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: Kansas City Looks for Silver Lining

BYLINE: By DON TERRY 

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo., Oct. 13

 BODY:
Jazz and food have always been hot in this city, home of Charlie (Bird) Parker and spicy barbecue. Lately the economy has been heating up, too, with a low unemployment rate and a high level of noise coming from new construction sites.
Still, it is not hard to find people here who say they are worried that Kansas City is headed in the wrong direction. For starters, the ghosts of the legendary corrupt days of Boss Tom Pendergast are once again rattling their handcuffs in the halls of local government. 
 In the last 18 months, four former or current members of the City Council have been indicted on Federal or state corruption charges in the biggest storm of subpoenas, suspicion and scandal to hit this town since the end of the Pendergast era in the late 1930's.
But what has made old men here weep and younger ones wonder about loyalty was the news last month that the blue jackets would be leaving town. For nearly 70 years, thousands of fresh-faced farmers to be, dressed in blue corduroy jackets and good manners, came to Kansas City early each November for the annual convention of the Future Farmers of America, now known officially only by its initials, F.F.A.
The invasion of blue was a heartland ritual of autumn, a tradition that made the old feel young and everyone else remember that life on the farm made life in the big city possible. But the F.F.A. is taking its sprawling convention to Louisville, Ky., in 1999, wooed away like a professional sports team or corporation by a pot of perks and promises.
F.F.A. leaders said they had simply obtained a better package of convention space and hotel rooms from Louisville, which has signed a seven-year contract with the organization. Mayor Emanuel Cleaver, a minister, likened the departure to the sad end of a long and happy marriage broken up by a new suitor.
"It hurt," Mr. Cleaver said in an interview. "It was like a divorce. The F.F.A. was born here. It's almost as Kansas City as the Missouri River."
More than just sentiment was at stake. The F.F.A. meeting is the largest convention here. Last year, 35,000 people attended it and spent an estimated $14 million in restaurants, hotels and shops. The organizers say they expect that by 2000, the convention will draw 50,000.
"It's not about losing a major convention and millions of dollars," Mr. Cleaver said. "They're teaching kids to be disloyal."
It was a civic slap in the face that stung all the more because of bad times in City Hall. The F.F.A. announced that it was leaving on the September day that one of the fallen Council members, D. Jeanne Robinson, pleaded guilty to mail fraud.
Bitterness and a sense of betrayal were in the air. Yael T. Abouhalkah, a columnist for The Kansas City Star, wrote "good riddance" to both the "greedy" politicians and the "greedy leaders" of the young farmers' group. "In both cases," Mr. Abouhalkah said, "Kansas Citians have been hurt and stunned by decisions outside their control."
It was a tag-team day of bad publicity for this city, where the jazz soars like a bird and the barbecue sauce is red hot and world famous.
"I'm into my 90th year as Mayor," said Mr. Cleaver, who is really in his second four-year term. "This has not been an easy time."
No one knows when the parade from politics to court will stop. A Federal grand jury has been looking into charges of influence peddling across the state involving government dealings with casinos, landfills, hospitals and more casinos.
According to The Star on Oct. 11, indictments are expected to be handed up for some of the "biggest political power brokers" in Kansas City and throughout the state when the grand jury is finished in a few weeks.
Civic pride has received other blows as well. Last year, the headquarters of the Big Eight sports conference, now the Big Twelve, left town for Dallas, where the head of the conference lives. Like the F.F.A., the conference has deep roots here. Its championship basketball tournament for men and women remains here, but many fear that it may eventually follow the pencil pushers in the headquarters.
In September, the National Severe Storms Forecast Center announced that it was leaving here after 42 years, moving to Norman, Okla., to consolidate tornado research. And some fear that the Kansas City Royals baseball team may also leave if a local buyer is not found.
But for some, all the bad news has obscured the truth that Kansas City is doing quite well over all. The unemployment rate is low (4 percent). New buildings are going up. The city of 443,878 residents has gained 9,000 people since the early 1990's. And several corporations, including Transamerica, Gateway 2000 and Harley-Davidson, have moved major divisions to town. Harley-Davidson is building an $82 million plant.
Still, when a sweetheart leaves and takes the pretty blue coat, it can be hard to notice the sunshine. "There is a feeling as we approach the next century," said Jim Scott, a 40-year-old architect, "that we aren't the city that we used to be."
Mr. Cleaver would agree. He said that Kansas City was better than ever and that was why he was so concerned about the cloud of shame drifting over City Hall.
"We are in the middle of our greatest building and economic boom in the last 75 years," he said, "and I don't want what is arguably the best moment in Kansas City history to be tainted by political corruption."
Many people here, however, do not seem too surprised or overly upset by the headlines about City Hall.
"There's a feeling in the public of 'What else is new?' " said Bill Worley, a researcher of local history at the University of Missouri campus here. "There's a perception of a lot of folks that corruption is endemic to Kansas City politics."
Mr. Worley said another reason people had not been too shaken was that the corruption exposed so far was "peanuts" compared with what went on when the Pendergast machine turned Kansas City into its personal piggy bank. The four politicians are accused of taking a total of less than $200,000 through bribes and fraud. Two politicians are accused in the same case; the other two cases are separate.
Mr. Worley said Pendergast and his men had stolen millions of dollars in the 20's and 30's and had even killed a few people on one Election Day. The era was captured most recently in Robert Altman's film "Kansas City."
But even in those days, the F.F.A. convention made people feel good about the future. Harry Cleberg, who will become chairman of the Chamber of Commerce in November, said the sight of the blue coats "renewed everyone's confidence in the youth of this country, who will ultimately become the leaders of America."
"The kids in the F.F.A.," Mr. Cleberg added, "are some of the finest, most vibrant, outgoing, polite young people you would every meet. Losing the convention is like losing a very dear friend."
A majority of members come from the countryside and suburbs. But the federation also has many urban chapters around the nation, including a large one here at East Magnet High School, where three members -- Jennifer Petrus, 17; Sheri Hopkins, 16, and Damonien Gleason, 18, the chapter president -- discussed recently what the convention had meant to their hometown.
"I remember my first convention back in 1994," Ms. Hopkins said, petting one of the school's six sheep as a brown rooster with a head of red feathers made a racket nearby. "Every time people saw me in my blue jacket, they'd come up and say how proud they felt when they were in the F.F.A. It helped them learn how to live. It brought the city together."
Ms. Hopkins said she wanted to be a lawyer specializing in agricultural and would love to go to court to keep the National F.F.A. Organization's convention in Kansas City. "The convention reminds old people of when they were young," she said. "Nobody wants to lose it. I know when I get gray, I want something like that to remind of my younger days."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Future Farmers of America, or F.F.A., plans to move its convention from Kansas City, Mo., to Louisville, Ky. Members in Kansas City include, from left, Damonien Gleason, Jennifer Petrus and Sheri Hopkins. (Jeff Roberson for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (96%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (96%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FUTURE FARMERS OF AMERICA (FFA) KANSAS CITY ROYALS RADIO NETWORK (91%); NATIONAL FFA ORGANIZATION (94%); NATIONAL FFA ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FUTURE FARMERS OF AMERICA (FFA) NATIONAL FFA ORGANIZATION (94%); NATIONAL FFA ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY (MO); UNITED STATES (96%); MISSOURI, USA (96%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (96%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; AGRICULTURE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SCANDALS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); TRENDS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); RELOCATIONS (72%); ETHICS (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (69%); INDICTMENTS (69%); POLITICS (66%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (66%); SPORTS (50%); MAIL FRAUD (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); 

PERSON: CLEAVER, EMANUEL (MAYOR); TERRY, DON EMANUEL CLEAVER (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



421 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE REFORM PARTY;
Humor and Energy in Team's Second Spot

BYLINE: By ERNEST TOLLERSON 

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Tex.

 BODY:
Standing in the aisle of the Rosebud Theater, the woman at the microphone recently asked a brutally blunt question of Pat Choate, the Vice-Presidential half of Ross Perot's Reform Party ticket: With Mr. Perot's single-digit standing in the polls, how did the two of them plan, after the election, to champion their ideas of fiscal responsibility?
Unfazed and with his professorial tongue firmly in his cheek, Dr. Choate responded, "How would we go about that in the unlikely prospect we don't win?" His one-liner set off gales of laughter among the several hundred students on hand for his speech at his alma mater, the University of Texas at Arlington, a Dallas suburb. 
 Disarming his audiences with flashes of humor may be an indispensable weapon these days as the political economist and outspoken critic of the North American Free Trade Agreement and other trade accords goes about the lonely, uphill task of trying to persuade voters to listen to the party's message.
The ticket's standing in the polls is no comfort. And if his Rosebud audience is typical, people seem attracted more out of curiosity than potential commitment. Unlike Vice President Al Gore and Jack Kemp, the Republican Vice-Presidential candidate, Dr. Choate does not have a traveling group of reporters watching his every move.
But none of this has sapped his enthusiasm. In his speech here, Dr. Choate pushed the party agenda, including a call for tightening campaign finance laws.
After telling the students that none of them had raised or could raise the more than $600,000 they would need to seek a House seat or the $4 million required for a Senate race, he told them: "I come from this school. I come from a working-class background. Let me tell you, it's a simple miracle that I'm able to run for Vice President. It is only because it's a new party, a reform party and a billionaire helped create it."
After the speech, a few students lingered to chat. And the Dallas-based ABC affiliate, Channel 8, devoted just a minute that night to Dr. Choate on the 5 o'clock newscast, nothing on the program at 6 and 45 seconds on the 10 o'clock news. The next day The Dallas Morning News carried an 18-line item on the talk.
Dr. Choate spent the next morning in his North Dallas hotel suite. Just before 8:30 A.M. he telephoned his first campaign stop, CNN Radio in Kansas City, Mo. Two and a half hours and a muffin later, after four interviews, he had reached 21 states.
From 11:30 A.M. to 12:30 P.M., at Perot '96 headquarters nearby, he tapped out answers on a computer keyboard to questions from high school students, using a CNN on-line chat service.
While the policy planks in Dr. Choate's public remarks are the same as Mr. Perot, his sensibilities at times are not. Mr. Perot's speeches focus on helping the middle class; Dr. Choate often talks about aiding the working class.
Answering the question at the Rosebud about the post-election fate of Reform Party ideas, Dr. Choate said that while he expected Mr. Perot to remain active in the party, he would return to the United Broadcasting Network, a radio network he says he controls along with a partner. But he said that the network would "be very aggressive on these issues over the next four years."
United Broadcasting produces public affairs programming and markets American-made products.
Until his candidacy, Dr. Choate, who has a Ph.D. in economics, was a full-time policy analyst with his own research group, the Manufacturing Policy Project. In the early 1990's, he wrote "Agents of Influence," in which he asserted that Japan's business interests were heavily involved in the affairs of the United States, and, if left unchecked, could turn this country into an economic colony.
But in the campaign Dr. Choate has concentrated on other issues. In an interview, he said that contributions to the major parties by "special interests" had, in effect, erased the differences between the parties.
President Clinton, a Southern Democrat, and Mr. Dole, the Republican nominee, are "corporate Republicans," he said, adding: "They're both financed by corporations. They seek the ratification and endorsement of those corporations."
Between 2008 and 2012, he predicted, the nation will undergo a political realignment: The business-backed elements of the major parties will merge, and working-class, moderate and reform-minded voters will join the Reform Party, which will become a labor party, he said. "What you're moving to in this country is back to a traditional alignment that we saw earlier in the century and that you see in England," he said. "That's capital and labor. That's what is happening here -- a party of workers and the owner class."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pat Choate, as Ross Perot's running mate, campaigns with energy. He was with high school students at Ann Arbor, Mich., on Wednesday. (Robert Chase/The Ann Arbor News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REFORM PARTY DALLAS MORNING NEWS INC (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REFORM PARTY UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); NETWORK TELEVISION (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); 

PERSON: CHOATE, PAT; PEROT, ROSS; TOLLERSON, ERNEST AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



422 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 23; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: About Real Estate;
More Town Houses Rise in Raritan Township, N.J.

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

DATELINE: RARITAN TOWNSHIP, N.J.

 BODY:
Banking on location, architecture and competitive pricing, a New Jersey developer is building a large town house development in this Hunterdon County community, which has seen its countryside blanketed with attached housing in the last decade.
The builder, the Kalian Companies of Red Bank, is putting up a 243-home development called Townsende in the northwest portion of this township about 50 miles from Manhattan, and abutting Main Street in the historic borough of neighboring Flemington. The 69-acre project, off Walter E. Foran Boulevard, is not far from several major roadways, including Routes 31, 22 and 202 and Interstate 287, and the corporations that have sprung up alongside them. Kalian, using its own equity and bank financing, will build the $35 million project in two phases over the next three and a half years. 
 Many of the existing condominiums in the Raritan-Flemington area were built during the mid-80's building boom and have one or two bedrooms, one-car garages and few basements. The market for attached housing, which was hit hardest in the real estate recession, has stabilized, said Nancy Spencer, manager of the Flemington office of Weichert Realtors. The average sales price for existing town homes, she said, is $121,500; for resale single-family homes it is $175,000. Prices for new single-family detached homes are higher, starting in the $250,000 range, although there are a few that are in the low $200,000's.
At Townsende the three-story town homes, designed in Victorian style by Kaplan, Gaunt & DeSantis of Red Bank, have two or three bedrooms, with 1,700 to 2,000 square feet of space, two-car garages and basements. Prices range from $154,900 to $189,900, which is $5,000 to $10,000 higher than when pre-construction sales began in June.
Patrick Kalian, president of the Kalian Companies, said Townsende was designed for people who wanted a large new home but who could not or chose not to pay the cost of a new single-family detached house in the area. It is a segment of the market not now being served adequately, he said.
Ms. Spencer agreed, but added, "The question is how deep is that market?"
Mark S. Bellin, Kalian's senior vice president, said his company also went ahead because a market study it commissioned showed the area's demographics were strong enough to support the project. Its location, within walking distance of an established neighborhood and shops, was also a positive factor. "People will buy if they are getting value," Mr. Bellin said, adding that so far contracts have been signed on 33 homes.
Townsende was conceived at the start of this decade. Kalian bought it early this year from the previous owners, who decided not to proceed. Development of the site required building a new road.
To that end Kalian is extending East Main Street in Flemington 1,000 yards north, through Raritan and past its project, to Route 31. The road will be completed next month. The company also increased the size of the residences by an average of 300 square feet from the original plans and added the basements to make them more attractive to buyers, Mr. Bellin said.
Townsende is one of several projects that will help Raritan comply with the State Supreme Court's Mount Laurel decisions requiring municipalities to offer housing for people with low and moderate incomes. Raritan has an obligation for 426 such units.
Kalian is contributing just over $1 million toward a regional contribution agreement, which allows the township to pay for half of its units to be built in New Brunswick.
Robert Kren, Raritan's planner, said that Townsende not only helped the township satisfy its affordable housing obligation, but created a new road that would direct traffic away from local streets.
Mr. Kren said zoning was in place for the other town house projects, together totaling 1,000 more units. Now, he said, the township is seeking to preserve farmland and open space and to keep future development in check. Since 1980 Raritan's population has gone from 8,200 to 20,000.
The 243 residences at Townsende will be contained in 39 buildings, with four to eight units each, spread over the site, more than 30 percent of which will be left clear. Most of the buildings face woods or open space.
The homes, which take their architecture cues from nearby Flemington, have scalloped siding and gingerbread-trim Victorian touches. Each includes nine-foot ceilings, decks and a two-car garage.
A pool, tennis court, small clubhouse and play areas are also planned. Monthly charges are $109 and taxes on a $165,000 unit will run about $3,600.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (55%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: KALIAN COMPANIES WEICHERT REALTORS INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: KALIAN COMPANIES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; RARITAN (NJ); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); EXISTING HOME SALES (65%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE MARK S BELLIN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



423 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Wall Street, usually thrilled by merger deals, shrugs at one.

BYLINE: By Milt Freudenheim 

 BODY:
DESPITE the general enthusiasm this bull market has offered for many takeover plans, analysts and investors yesterday registered displeasure with both a buyer and seller.
The deal was the proposed $1.7 billion purchase of Ornda Healthcorp by the Tenet Healthcare Corporation that is to create a chain of 126 hospitals. The combination, which must be approved by shareholders and Federal antitrust regulators, would unite Tenet, the second-largest for-profit hospital group, with Ornda, the No. 3 chain. It would add 50 hospitals to Tenet's 76 institutions for a total of 126, still behind the Columbia-HCA Healthcare Corporation. which has more than 320 hospitals. 
 Yet Wall Street didn't reflect any particular gusto for either side of the deal. Tenet Healthcare fell 87.5 cents, to $21.25 a share, as is typical for an acquiring company. But in a market reaction unusual for a takeover candidate, Ornda actually slipped 37.5 cents a share before rebounding to scratch out a gain of 25 cents, to $27.50.
Analysts questioned whether Tenet was paying too much for Ornda, whether the location of Ornda's hospitals in poor areas would become an issue if cuts in Medicare and Medicaid occur and whether Tenet could have done better by spending its money in other places.
Tenet, which is based in Santa Barbara, Calif., and Ornda, of Nashville, said they could save $70 million a year by eliminating overlapping equipment, laboratories and computer systems and add 7 cents to earnings a share on $8.5 billion in revenue. They would have 29 hospitals in the hotly competitive Southern California market, mainly in Los Angeles and Orange counties, outnumbering Columbia, which has 17 there and is acquiring four more. In south Florida, the new company would have 11 hospitals plus one Tenet is already acquiring.
"It strengthens their health care networks in two managed care hotbeds," said Randall S. Huyser, an analyst with Furman Selz.
Jeffrey C. Barbakow, chief executive of Tenet, said, "We can deliver quality at the prices that are demanded today."
But skeptics said that a number of Ornda's hospitals were in poor sections of Los Angeles and heavily dependent on Medicaid and Medicare payments now endangered by the pressure for Federal budget-cutting.
"The quality of the assets they are buying is very poor," said Todd Richter, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds. "It's a bad deal for the Tenet shareholder."
Kenneth S. Abramowitz, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, put a slightly different face on the deal, calling it "one of those good news, bad news stories." He said potential savings could increase earnings by 10 cents a share in 1998.
On the down side, though, "Tenet could have taken the money and theoretically bought more prestigious not-for-profit hospitals in various regions," Mr. Abramowitz said.
Mimi Willard, an analyst with Cowen & Company, said that the added size would improve Tenet's chances of forging new ventures with independent hospitals. "Before, it wasn't clear that they had enough size and clout to be a player for the long term," she said.
Indeed, speculation persisted that Columbia-HCA might step in and make an offer for Tenet. To forestall such a move, both Tenet and Ornda agreed to pay a $50 million penalty if the deal falls through from either side. And shareholders would then have options to buy big minority blocks of each other's stock.
Under the terms announced yesterday, each Ornda share would be exchanged for 1.35 shares of Tenet common stock, and Tenet would assume $1.37 billion of Ornda debt.
Analysts said that the price, including debt, was more than eight times Ornda's cash flow measured in revenues before interest on debt, depreciation and taxes. Mr. Huyser said that the price was "fair," but Mr. Richter said that it was higher than Columbia had paid when it absorbed three other big hospital chains.
Investor-owned hospital chains have been mainly buying nonprofits recently, and increasingly expanding from their bases in the Sun Belt to states like Massachusetts, Michigan and Ohio, where for-profit hospitals were an exotic novelty. "The key to size is to be big enough to get economies of scale and regional or even national managed care contracts," Mr. Huyser said.
Hospital stocks as a group have trailed the market, he said. Columbia-HCA is down 10 percent from its 52-week high, and Tenet was up about 5 percent before yesterday's announcement. Ornda, though, has risen 15 percent this year.
Officials of Tenet would take most of the key management jobs at the new company. Mr. Barbakow of Tenet would continue as chairman and chief executive of the combined company and Michael H. Focht would continue as its president and chief operating officer. Charles N. Martin Jr., the chief executive of Ornda, would become vice chairman of the new company.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: THC (NYSE) (85%); HCA (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (85%); NAICS623311 CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES (85%); NAICS621491 HMO MEDICAL CENTERS (85%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (84%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (84%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (84%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (61%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (72%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (72%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: ORNDA HEALTHCORP; TENET HEALTHCARE CORP TENET HEALTHCARE CORP (85%); HCA HOLDINGS INC (84%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (61%); MEDICARE (82%); MEDICAID (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORNDA HEALTHCORP; TENET HEALTHCARE CORP MEDICARE (82%); MEDICAID (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (72%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (72%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID; MEDICARE; HOSPITALS HEALTH CARE (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); MERGERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); MEDICAID (72%); APPROVALS (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT RANDALL S HUYSER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



424 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: Corner Office Is Still G.O.P. Country;
Executives Back Dole Despite Clinton Record

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

 BODY:
If any class of Americans has reason to be content on the eve of this Presidential election, it is probably the nation's top executives. Nearly 9 of 10 say the condition of the economy is "good," up from the nearly half who said so four years ago. A solid majority believes that inflation has been tamed, and many of the companies that the executives run have bullish plans to invest and hire new employees in the coming year, according to a new New York Times/CBS News Poll.
The next recession? Not before 1999, according to nearly half the executives, and another 27 percent do not see a downturn coming until 1998. 
 Nonetheless, America's executive suites remain die-hard Republican territory. At a time when poll after poll of voters shows President Clinton ahead by double digits, 65 percent of the executives surveyed said that they preferred Bob Dole for President. Twenty-five percent said they would vote for Mr. Clinton -- just about the same level of support he got in 1992.
Like President Clinton, the top managers stress the importance of cutting the Federal budget deficit: 26 percent ranked it as the nation's chief economic problem, versus the 9 percent who said high taxes topped the list.
And a large portion of the executives, 41 percent, said that Mr. Dole's centerpiece plan to cut Federal income taxes by 15 percent was wrong for the country. Fifty-two percent favor the plan, but that figure falls to 19 percent if the tax cut would increase the deficit.
But 71 percent of the executives still said Mr. Dole would do a better job reducing the deficit, versus 18 percent for Mr. Clinton. And 63 percent said Mr. Dole's economic program would result in more growth, versus 26 percent who favored the President's. Executives appear to see no reason to vote for Mr. Clinton, despite the economy's strength.
"A lot of the good things that have happened have occurred despite Clinton, not because of him," declared David Hubers, the chief executive of American Express Financial Advisers in Minneapolis and one of several people who took part in the poll and agreed to be interviewed in depth afterward.
In fact, while 48 percent of the executives polled approved of the way Mr. Clinton was handling the economy, 44 percent disapproved. Executives said the kudos belonged to the Federal Reserve Board, which got the most credit from 42 percent of respondents, and to Congress, which got the nod from 28 percent. Only 16 percent said the White House was most responsible.
These were some of the key findings of a poll conducted by telephone from Sept. 25 to Oct. 11 with 442 top executives across the country. The sample comprised 109 executives from companies with revenues of more than $500 million, 119 from companies with revenues between $100 million and $500 million and 214 from companies with revenues between $5 million and $100 million.
The responses were weighted to reflect the actual distribution in the economy of companies of different sizes, and the poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus six percentage points.
Only 10 days ago, Mr. Clinton was trumpeting his support among the nation's business leaders. Surrounded by 300 executives at a campaign stop in Stamford, Conn., on Oct. 7, he boasted about the state of the economy; his campaign released the names of more than 2,500 executives across the country who had endorsed him.
The poll does show that executive appreciation for Mr. Clinton's economic stewardship nearly doubled the last two years. In April 1994, only 27 percent of business executives approved of the President's handling of the economy, while 67 percent disapproved.
But the new poll shows that Mr. Clinton is likely to get no more support from business leaders this year than he did in 1992, when 21 percent of executives said they voted for him -- a statistical dead heat with his current showing.
In a December 1992 poll, 53 percent of executives said they had voted for then-President George Bush, lower than Mr. Dole's current level of support, while Ross Perot, with 14 percent, had more support than his 4 percent showing now.
The premier campaign issue four years ago was the seemingly lackluster economy, which cost Mr. Bush votes among both executives and the public -- even though, as statistics later showed, the economy was growing at a robust 4.3 percent annual rate in the final months of the Bush Presidency.
But while Mr. Clinton has presided over most of this longest of postwar economic expansions, executives are not satisfied.
"The economy has to expand more quickly than it has," said Dan Akerson, the chief executive of Nextel Communications, a wireless telecommunications company based in McLean, Va. "Historically, it has grown at 3.5 percent a year, and during Clinton's tenure it has grown at 2.5 percent."
By a huge margin, 63 percent versus 26 percent, the executives believe that Mr. Dole's economic program will result in more economic growth than Mr. Clinton's economic plans.
Some of the executives' support for Mr. Dole, the poll demonstrated, is rooted in their preference for a minimalist government.
Nearly 9 of 10 said that government was doing too many things to solve problems that were better left to businesses and individuals. A mere 8 percent said that government should do more.
Forty-six percent of the executives said that government should do less to regulate the environmental and safety practices of the business community; just 14 percent said it should do more.
Such sentiments are not mirrored among the general public. In a New York Times/CBS News poll taken earlier in September, 27 percent of voters said government should do more to solve the country's problems, while 62 percent said it was doing too much. A majority of voters -- 53 percent -- want more environmental and safety regulation.
The executives were also tougher than the public on Mr. Clinton's overall performance.
Only 39 percent of the executives approved of the way Mr. Clinton has handled his job as President, while 54 percent disapproved. Among the general public, 58 percent approved and 32 percent disapproved, according to the latest New York Times/ CBS News Poll.
Beyond their philosophical differences with Mr. Clinton, some of the executives said in interviews that they were troubled by Mr. Clinton's character.
"I believe that the way President Clinton has conducted himself in office is wanting," said Irvine O. Hockaday, the chief executive of Hallmark Cards, who said he was not thrilled by the choice but planned to vote for Mr. Dole.
"We're at a stage in the evolution of our democracy where the power of example has become disproportionately important," Mr. Hockaday said. "The inconsistencies in delivering on his word and the way the White House has handled Whitewater and Filegate issues all add up to a counterproductive behavioral example."
It comes as little surprise, then, that nearly two-thirds of the executives believe that if Mr. Clinton wins a second term, he will reverse his stated course and seek to substantially increase spending on government programs.
Still, the executives expressed strong optimism about the business scene.
Forty-nine percent said that they would add workers in the next 12 months, up sharply from the 36 percent that expressed such plans two years ago. Only 6 percent said they expected staffing levels to fall, while 45 percent said staffing would remain steady.
Capital spending plans are even more robust, and few executives expressed worries about inflation. Completing the picture, executives said profits, which have been buoyant, would largely remain so. Just 13 percent of those polled predicted a downturn in their companies' earnings, while 34 percent expected profits to rise.
And how are the executives themselves doing? Fifty-one percent said that many chief executives were overpaid nowadays, although only 32 percent of executives at the biggest companies felt that way; over all, 33 percent said that chief executives were paid appropriately.
 
How the Poll Was Conducted
The New York Times/CBS News Poll of American business executives is based on telephone interviews, conducted from Sept. 25 to Oct. 11, with 442 senior executives at companies throughout the United States.
The sample of companies and executives called was randomly drawn by Survey Sampling Inc. of Fairfield, Conn., using the nationwide data base of both publicly owned and privately held companies maintained by Dun & Bradstreet Information Services.
Companies with $5 million or more in annual revenues were eligible for the survey. Within each company one executive at a senior level was interviewed. Titles eligible for the poll included owner, partner, chief executive, president, chairman, executive vice president, senior vice president, with first opportunity for an interview given to the most senior official.
The completed sample comprised 109 interviews in companies with annual revenues of $500 million or more, 119 interviews in companies with $100 million to $499 million and 214 interviews in companies with $5 million to $99 million in annual revenue. The combined total sample of 442 was then weighted by revenue size to reflect the actual distribution of all listed companies in the country because smaller companies predominate.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, results based on such samples will differ by no more than six percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out senior executives at all listed companies in the country with annual revenues of $5 million or more.
The potential sampling error for groups with fewer cases is larger. For example, for the biggest companies, those with $500 million or more in annual revenue, it is plus or minus nine percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey can introduce other sources of error into the poll. Differences in the wording and order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat varying results.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton was endorsed by William T. Esrey, left, chief executive, Sprint, and Paul A. Allair, cheif executive of Xerox. (Reuters); Gilbert F. Amelio, left, chief executive of Apple Computer, wore a Dole/Kemp button during an appearance by Bob Dole before the Electronics Industries Association in San Diego on Tuesday. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. D1)
 
Graphs: "The Corporate Role in Public Life" and "A Bullish Economic Outlook" show results of a poll conducted regarding top executive's outlook on the economy and the 1996 Presidental race. (pg. D6, D1)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; CAPITAL INVESTMENT ; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RANKINGS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TAX LAW (87%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INCOME TAX (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); COMPANY REVENUES (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



425 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Peso Strengthens and Mexican Stocks Rise

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 17

 BODY:
Mexican stocks rose for a second day after the peso strengthened and the Bank of Mexico cut borrowing costs, raising hopes that company earnings would benefit.
The bolsa index rose 25.46 points, or 0.78 percent, to 3288.47, after the peso rebounded to 13 cents each from 12.7 cents Wednesday and the central bank cut the cost of an overnight loan to 29.54 percent from 31.69 percent. 
 The Mexican currency, which had been relatively stable at about 13.3 American cents since midsummer, had fallen 3.3 percent since the beginning of last week.
Lower borrowing cost can boost economic growth, company earnings and the size of dividends paid shareholders. A stronger peso makes Mexican stocks worth more.
Even with the currency see-sawing in recent days, "Mexico is looking good, perhaps one the best markets in Latin America," said Francois Gour of Credit Lyonnais S. A. in New York. "At the end of the day, money will gravitate toward it."
With the currency near its weakest point in the last 11 months, sales and earnings at exporting companies should rise, as well as those of companies that depend on higher numbers of foreign tourists to profit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (59%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT LYONNAIS SA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (74%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (59%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; CREDIT CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); BONDS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: FRANCOIS GOUR (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



426 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Blue Chips Set Records, But Nasdaq Retreats 9.03
Blue-chip stocks set their third record of the week. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 38.39 points, to 6,059.20, and the S.& P. 500 stock index rose 2.58 points, to 706.99, as investors focused on consumer-product companies like Merck, P.& G. and Philip Morris.
In contrast, the Nasdaq composite retreated 9.03 points to 1,241.96, as traders took profits in computer and technology stocks. [Page D8.]
 
Buyers bid up Treasury prices, as a host of economic data showed growth slowing with little chance that inflation will pick up. The 30-year bond yield slipped to 6.80 percent. [D18.]
 
Silicon Graphics Reports Loss
Silicon Graphics reported a loss for its first quarter, surprising analysts who had expected a profit even after the company warned last month that its results would not meet their estimates. The loss marked the fifth consecutive quarter in which Silicon Graphics has underperformed expectations. [D4.]

Stronger Profits at Baby Bells
Bell Atlantic, BellSouth, Pacific Telesis and SBC Communications each posted stronger profits, as a result of rising demand for local phone services. [D4.]

Few Cracks in the Glass Ceiling
A study of America's 500 largest companies found that 10 percent of their officers were women, but only 2 percent of the companies' top five earners were women. [D4.]
 
American Woman for British Post
Marjorie M. Scardino, chief executive of the Economist Group, was named chief executive of Pearson, the media conglomerate. Ms. Scardino will be the first American to head Pearson and the only woman heading one of Britain's 100 largest publicly traded companies. [D7.]

Chrysler Penalized on Lemon Law
A California regulator ordered Chrysler to halt new car and truck shipments to the state for 45 days as punishment for selling 116 used vehicles without disclosing that they had been repurchased under the "lemon law." [D9.]

New York Sues Tobacco Companies
New York City sued tobacco companies to recoup the cost of caring for people with illnesses caused by smoking. The suit angered Philip Morris, one of the city's largest and most influential corporations. [B17.]

McDonnell Profit Tops Forecasts
McDonnell Douglas reported a rise in earnings on improved performance by its military and commercial aircraft businesses. [D2.]
 
An Unpopular $1.7 Billion Deal
Analysts and investors did not think much of the $1.7 billion purchase of Ornda Healthcorp by Tenet Healthcare. Market Place. [D8.]

A Rare Look Back for MTV
MTV is taking a rare look back in a retrospective of 15 years of its advertising and promotional efforts, including promotions for spring break beach parties and a "Choose or Lose" voter registration drive.Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]

What Dole Leaves Unsaid on Taxes
Bob Dole calls for a new tax system. But, knowing that any change would produce losers as well as winners, he has offered no specific alternative to the current system. [D6.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,059.20 up 38.38
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.80% down 0.05
The Dollar -- 112.22 yen down 0.05
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows U.S. balance of trade from Feb. to July. Expected for August: -$9.4 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (84%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (95%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); WOMEN (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (72%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); HEALTH CARE (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (69%); SMOKING (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); AUTOMOBILE CONSUMER PROTECTION (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (61%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); TAX REFORM (60%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%); 

PERSON: MARJORIE SCARDINO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



427 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Dow and S.& P. 500 Hit 3d Highs This Week; Nasdaq Is Off

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks marched to record highs yesterday for the third time this week as interest rates fell.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 38.39 points, to 6,059.20, down slightly from a 45-point gain that briefly put the Dow within 35 points of 6,100 just three days after its first close above 6,000. 
 The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks also notched its third new high this week, while the New York Stock Exchange composite index, also dominated by blue chips and other larger companies, closed at record levels after a 10-day drought.
The Nasdaq market, dominated by technology issues, retreated, however, pressured by more profit taking in computer stocks, whose shares had rallied in advance of this week's strong earnings reports.
With few eye-catching earnings reports like those that dominated the last two sessions, many investors focused on consumer product concerns like Merck, Procter & Gamble and Philip Morris, whose fairly reliable revenues are looking increasingly attractive with each new hint of a moderating economy.
The Government offered several such suggestions yesterday morning, reporting that construction of new homes and apartments fell 6 percent last month to the lowest level of 1996, while industrial production inched up just two-tenths of 1 percent.
Bonds rallied on the news, which reinforced other recent indications that robust demand was easing enough to contain inflationary pressures without an interest rate increase by the Federal Reserve.
As bond prices rose, the yield on the 30-year Treasury -- a key determinant of corporate and consumer borrowing costs -- fell to 6.80 percent, from 6.85 percent Wednesday.
"The overall picture indicates that we are in an extended period of rest and recuperation after a pretty fast sprint earlier this year," Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at the Norwest Corporation in Minneapolis, said.
But he also cautioned that "this R & R will probably end fairly soon," noting other recent indications that consumers have jobs, income and confidence -- all the right ingredients for a healthy holiday season.
Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by nearly a 7-to-5 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume was heavy at 478.6 million shares.
The Standard & Poor's 500 rose 2.58, to 706.99, and the New York Stock Exchange index rose 1.88, to 376.41, leaping past the Oct. 7 record close of 374.74.
The Nasdaq composite index fell 9.03 points, to 1,241.96.
As expected, AT&T reported a drop in third-quarter profits, while Apple Computer joined the stream of good results from the technology sector with late Wednesday's report of an unexpected profit for the June-September period. AT&T, a component of the Dow, was unchanged, at 39 7/8, while Apple was up 5/8, at 26 3/8. It was among the most-active issues on Nasdaq.
Merck, up 2 7/8, at 74 7/8, was the Dow's biggest gainer, benefiting from a brokerage upgrade prompted by the drug maker's better-than-expected earnings report on Wednesday. Procter & Gamble up 1 1/2, to 97 1/2, and Philip Morris, up 1 1/2, at 97 3/8, also lifted the Dow.
Coca-Cola rose 3/4, to 49 1/4, after the company announced plans to buy back up to another 10 percent of its shares over the next 10 years.
Cirrus Logic fell 2 3/4, to 21 1/4. The chip maker reported a profit of about $3 million, or 5 cents a share, for its second quarter ended Sept. 28. Some analysts had predicted a loss for the quarter, but the results were well below a profit of $33 million, or 47 cents a share, in the similar period a year earlier.
Northwest Airlines gained 1 1/2, to 32, after the company said its third-quarter profits rose 9.9 percent. But Northwest cautioned that fuel costs, a weak Japanese yen and reinstatement of a 10 percent Federal ticket tax would continue to affect fourth-quarter results.
Among initial public offerings, Metro Networks, a provider of traffic reports, local news, sports and weather to television and radio broadcasters, surged to 20 1/2 from its share pricing of 16.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (64%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (75%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); MINNESOTA, USA (75%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); INFLATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (68%); CONSUMER LENDING (68%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



428 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: CAMPAIGN FINANCE;
Business Is Biggest Political Donor, Dwarfing Labor's Contribution, Study Says

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17

 BODY:
In one of the most comprehensive studies to date, a private research group projected today that this year's Presidential race would cost $800 million, three times as much as the 1992 campaign, and that another $800 million would be spent on Congressional races.
Although Republicans have complained about spending by organized labor, the largest source of money for all candidates is business, said the study, by the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit group that studies campaign finance. 
 In this election cycle, business has raised $242.4 million, most of which has gone to Republicans, while organized labor has raised $35 million, most of it for Democrats.
"Money is not coming from ordinary Americans," said Ellen Miller, the research group's executive director. "American elections are paid for, overwhelmingly by economically interested industries and a small handful of individuals."
Ms. Miller added, "We have a political system paid for by Wall Street, not Main Street -- and also paid for by Tobacco Road."
The big force behind this surge in financing for Federal campaigns has been a new activism by business political action committees, as well as a growth in "soft dollar" contributions -- money given to national political parties, which spend it on Presidential and Congressional races. The biggest business donor and soft-dollar contributor is Wall Street, which has given nearly $60 million, mostly to Republicans.
A loophole allows donors to avoid Federal campaign finance restrictions if they give to the national parties rather than to individual candidates. Direct contributions to Federal candidates are capped at $1,000 from individuals and $5,000 from businesses.
The $800 million for the Presidential race is composed of Federal matching funds to the candidates, soft dollars to the Republican and Democratic Party Committees, money to political action committees and direct individual donations to candidates. Soft dollars and business donations have swelled contributions to the Presidential race, but spending on Congressional races is only slightly above the 1994 level.
In this year's elections, one of the biggest turnarounds in fund-raising techniques is in the use of political action committees by business to funnel money to Congressional candidates. Long considered a financing tool of organized labor and used mainly for Democratic candidates, PAC money goes mostly to Republican candidates, who now get $3 for every $1 received by Democrats. The change occurred right after the Republicans won control of both houses of Congress in the 1994 elections.
"When the Republicans took over all these chairmanships and subcommittees, they reaped a whirlwind of money," said Larry Makinson, the research group's deputy director. "Even some of the labor PAC's were giving more to Republicans than Democrats."
Donations to Republicans from political action committees, mostly organized by business, has increased by 87 percent in this election cycle to $71.3 million, from $38.2 million in the 1994 races. The financial services industry, Wall Street and insurance, has by itself contributed $21.5 million, up from $18.1 million in 1994. Republicans are getting 90 percent more and Democrats 36 percent less from this industry than in 1994.
Political action committee contributions to Democrats have fallen by more than 20 percent; Democrats received $71.8 million in 1994 but have received only $55.4 million in this election cycle.
Organized labor's political action committee donations have remained almost constant. Labor, which supports Democrats almost exclusively, is giving about the same in the 1996 Congressional races, $26.6 million, as it did in the 1994 races, when it gave $24.2 million.
This imbalance may be somewhat offset by labor's plans to spend $35 million more on advertisements independent of the candidates and in support of Democratic candidates. This $35 million is not included in the tabulations by the Center for Responsive Politics. Business groups have also vowed to spend about $20 million on such independent ads, which are also not included in the data from the research group.
The financial services industry, which includes Wall Street, insurance and real estate, is the biggest industry giver of soft money: $59.8 million, 64 percent of it for Republicans. The largest corporate donor is Philip Morris, which has given $2.7 million, 78 percent of it to Republicans, followed by AT&T, which has given $2.2 million, 60 percent to Republicans.
Both major parties have vowed to raise about $120 million in soft-dollar donations for their Presidential campaigns. Most of it is coming from business, provoking criticism that political fund raising has turned into a game of selling access.
"Our campaign finance system is a quid pro quo to all manner of interests," said Ms. Miller of the research group. "When candidates for political office solicit and receive big bucks for their political campaigns, big favors are incurred. Both parties know it. Both parties do it."
The next largest donor is "miscellaneous business," which has given $37 million, nearly two-thirds of it to Republicans, followed by organized labor, which has raised more than $35 million, almost all of it for Democratic candidates. Agricultural companies have given $24 million, mostly to Republicans, while the telecommunications and electronics industry has given $24 million, almost divided evenly between the two parties.
The Association of Trial Lawyers of America is the biggest contributor to the Democrats, which has received more than 80 percent of the association's $2.1 million in contributions. Trial lawyers have long opposed Republican efforts to restrict lawsuits against business.
Other big soft-dollar donors are Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, the Canadian distiller's American subsidiary, which has given about $1 million (over half to Democrats); Atlantic Richfield, the oil company, which has given about $1 million (two-thirds to Republicans), and MCI Communications, the long-distance carrier, which has given $767,000 (over half to Democrats).

GRAPHIC: Chart: "FOR THE RECORD: Who's Giving" List top 20 Overall campaign contributors from Jan. 1, 1995 to June 30, 1996. Includes soft money to the national parties, PAC money to candidates, PAC and individual contributions to the Clinton and Dole campaigns and individual campaign contributions to all Federal candidates. (Center fo Responsive Politics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (ORGN); CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) RESEARCH GROUP (90%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (83%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (ORGN); CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (83%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; FINANCES; ELECTIONS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS; POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES POLITICS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); MATCHING GIFTS (77%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); 

PERSON: MILLER, ELLEN; WAYNE, LESLIE

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996



429 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: A Cable Monopoly

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Providing an outlet in New York City for a diversity of television news channels and live cable coverage of the City Council, as proposed by Gene Russianoff (Op-Ed, Oct. 16), would strengthen the life and and the economy of the city.
New Yorkers would not allow a main thoroughfare like Madison Avenue to be controlled by a single retailer. Yet, the allocation of cable channels raises concerns when we allow one company, Time Warner, to control the system and many of the sources of cable programming. 
 This city is the nation's center for production of news and nonfiction entertainment. We should consider how its cable television systems can serve the interests of the city as a whole.
 
MITCHELL L. MOSS
New York, Oct. 16, 1996
 
The writer is director, Taub Urban Research Center, New York Univ.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER SPORTS (57%); TIME WARNER BOOKMARK (57%); UNITED NATIONS UNIVERSITY (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNIVERSITY (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; CITY COUNCILS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); WRITERS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: MOSS, MITCHELL L MITCHELL L MOSS NEW YORK (63%); GENE RUSSIANOFF (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



430 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Expand Javits Center

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The Jacob K. Javits Convention Center has indeed been turned around under the administration of Gov. George E. Pataki ("Progress of the Javits Center," editorial, Oct. 12). Crime has been virtually eliminated, and the work force is being motivated by the most powerful incentive to provide customer satisfaction -- keeping their jobs.
There is a problem, however: a severe and growing lack of available dates. The center is in the middle of the pack in terms of square footage and is falling behind every day as our major convention city competitors -- Las Vegas, Chicago and Los Angeles -- all continue to expand. Shows that wish to come here are being turned away. 
 By the end of the decade, New York will become the equivalent of a third world city, convention wise.
A trade show producer myself, I have three fashion industry trade shows at the center this month that will contribute 10,000 hotel night stays to the city's economy, as well as innumerable taxi rides, restaurant meals and theater tickets. My shows are typical.
Much coverage of the center focuses on whether it makes a profit. The $600 million or so that the state spent building the center would be a poor investment indeed if its goal was simply to make $1 million or $2 million.
We need to plan an expansion of the center, so that two of the city's brightest industries, tourism and conventions, can continue to power our economy into the next millennium.
 
DAVID LARKIN
New York, Oct. 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EXPAND JAVITS CENTER (83%); JACOB K JAVITS CONVENTION CENTER (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EXPAND JAVITS CENTER (83%); JACOB K JAVITS CONVENTION CENTER (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: JAVITS, JACOB K, CONVENTION CENTER (NYC) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RESTAURANTS (67%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (57%); FASHION & APPAREL (53%); 

PERSON: LARKIN, DAVID EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



431 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Up vs. Yen in New York and Tokyo

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar surged against the Japanese yen yesterday, bolstered by Japanese investors seeking higher returns abroad, and by reports showing a narrowing trade gap between the United States and Japan.
With Japan's interest rates at record lows, investors there are looking to the United States and other countries for higher-yielding investments. 
 "There is still a lot of investment interest out of Japan in the U.S. markets," which is helping the dollar, Seth Garrett, a director of foreign exchange at CS First Boston, said.
The dollar received a lift in Tokyo trading, climbing to 112.63 yen, after Japan said its trade surplus shrank more than 30 percent in September.
In New York trading, the dollar briefly slumped, then recovered, after the United States said its trade deficit fell almost 7 percent in August, a smaller drop than many analysts had expected. The dollar settled at 112.47 yen, up from 112.22 yen on Thursday. It was little changed at 1.5422 marks, down slightly from 1.5429 marks. The British pound rose to $1.5885, from $1.5860.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BRITISH POUND (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



432 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: An Ivy-Covered Shell Game

BYLINE: By William D. Hansen; William D. Hansen, Assistant Secretary of Education in the Bush Administration, is executive director of the Education Finance Council.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
When it comes to paying for college, are Americans better off today than they were four years ago? Will they be better off four years from now, if President Clinton is re-elected? The answers, unfortunately, are no and no.
Mr. Clinton has tried to alleviate anxiety over college costs, but so far his education programs have done little to help middle-class or poor families pay for college. 
 If re-elected, the President promises to create the Hope Scholarship program, which would allow families to deduct up to $10,000 in tuition from their annual taxable income or take a tax credit of $1,500 for the first two years of college.
Sounds good. But Robert Reischauer, former director of the Congressional Budget Office, wrote that the proposal, which could cost $43 billion over six years, is "bad tax policy and worse education policy."
Why is the tax credit bad policy? First, it would give families no real purchasing power, because colleges would have little incentive to hold down their prices. They could simply work this tax break into their annual tuition calculations.
Second, the tax credit would do nothing for the nearly four million low-income students who receive Pell grants. Under the Clinton plan, they would not qualify for the tax credit.
This proposal builds upon other misguided Clinton education policies. During the 1992 campaign, Mr. Clinton proudly touted his direct student loan proposal. He claimed college would be more affordable because direct loans would offer students lower monthly payments.
In actuality, the private sector usually offers lower interest rates and lower fees than does his direct loan program. And in many cases, monthly direct-loan repayments amount to less than the accruing interest, so the outstanding balance can grow dramatically. The Government forgives any unpaid balance after 25 years, but the Internal Revenue Service will treat the forgiven amount as taxable income.
So a student who borrows $50,000, for example, could have an unpaid- loan balance of $79,000 after 25 years. This borrower would then have to pay $22,000 in Federal income taxes on that unpaid balance, and the taxpayers would get stuck with the remaining $57,000.
Similarly, President Clinton's Americorps national service program has turned out to be incredibly expensive and inefficient. Taxpayers pay $400 million to help only 25,000 students. That means Federal aid goes to only one out of every 750 college students -- who receive something like $30,000 each.
The President deserves some credit for securing the most generous Pell grants ever in the 1997 budget. But in his first three years of office, Mr. Clinton reduced these grants twice, and recommended sharply cutting other forms of financial aid, such as the work-study program.
The Department of Education delivers basically the same number of grants, college loans and campus awards that it did four years ago -- only now it spends hundreds of millions more a year to do the same thing. President Clinton seriously thinks that the department should become America's third-largest bank, displacing private loan providers.
Helping families pay for a quality college education can best be achieved by improving, enhancing and simplifying existing programs and eliminating those that don't work -- not by creating inefficient new programs or tax credits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; TAX CREDITS; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (75%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (75%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HANSEN, WILLIAM D BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



433 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: A Good Law Yields More Voters

 BODY:
An encouraging new study finds that an impressive 12 million potential voters have been added to registration rolls because of the National Voter Registration Act -- popularly known as the motor-voter law. The new law, which went into effect last year, required states to allow people to register by mail. Citizens now can easily register when they obtain a driver's license or visit other government agencies like unemployment and public assistance offices.
While a party breakdown for motor-voter registration is not yet available, overall registration numbers do not show the surge of new Democratic voters that some Republicans feared. Continuing a 30-year trend, Democratic registration fell about 1 percent over the past year, from 50 to 49 percent, while Republican registration remained steady at 34 percent. The number of new voters registering as Independents showed a small increase, from 16 to 17 percent. 
 There is no telling what impact the increase in registration will have on next month's elections. Much depends on which, and how many, of the new registrants actually cast ballots. But over the long term, the nation is enhanced when more Americans are eligible to participate in the core ritual of democracy. On this score, the motor-voter law is proving its worth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; NATIONAL VOTER REGISRATION ACT (US); REGISTRATION OF VOTERS; DRIVERS LICENSES; EDITORIALS ELECTION LAW (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); DRIVERS LICENSES (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (71%); TRENDS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



434 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Slow Changes in Japan

 BODY:
After four Prime Ministers in three years, Japanese voters had hoped that their next parliamentary election might bring a measure of political stability. Instead, balloting tomorrow seems likely to produce a new period of confusion and jockeying among familiar players. All the major candidates say they favor a Japan that is more open and free of regulations, with a foreign policy more independent of the United States. But voters remain conservative and skeptical about the possibilities of reform.
Japan is slowly emerging from one of its worst recessions in modern history, and economic issues are a major factor in a campaign that sometimes sounds similar to the American election debate. One challenger for prime minister, Ichiro Ozawa, has gone the route of Bob Dole, advocating a sharp reduction in business and personal taxes. Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto, the front-runner, argues that the deficit is too high and Japan will have to increase taxes to support its increasingly aged population with health and social benefits. 
 Mr. Hashimoto, the head of the long-running Liberal Democratic Party, is way ahead in the polls. Mr. Ozawa, who broke from the Liberal Democrats several years ago, is foundering, in part because Japanese voters do not believe he can carry out his promises.
The opinion polls may be less reliable than usual this year because Japan has revamped its electoral system. The changes, which call for each district to be represented by only one member of Parliament, were designed to eliminate smaller parties and allow for the emergence of one strong centrist party to challenge the Liberal Democrats. That has not yet happened. The Liberal Democrats remain the favorite to win as they face a challenge from several smaller parties, all of them fighting each other.
The new system was also supposed to cut back on the money pouring into politics from business and special interests, which has had such a corrupting effect in the last decade. The flow of money has diminished a bit, but mostly because falling profits have left many corporations unable to make large contributions.
For the United States, the apparent strength of Mr. Hashimoto's Liberal Democrats poses the same dilemma that Washington has faced for years. The party is the most resistant to reforms that Americans believe could open Japan to American exports and services. But the party has such strong roots in the bureaucracy and other elites that it can usually deliver on the promises it does make to Washington. Mr. Hashimoto is further prized in Washington because of the skillful way he has defused anger in Okinawa over the behavior of American troops there and renewed the strategic alliance with the United States.
Japanese voters have grown increasingly impatient with the Government's insensitivity to their needs. Their views have been reinforced by a recent scandal in which the Government invited the spread of AIDS by callously barring imports of safe blood products in order to give Japanese drug companies time to develop their own versions. No matter who wins these elections, the voters are likely to remain cynical if their leaders continue allowing business interests to keep the economy closed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ELECTIONS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TRENDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); AIDS & HIV (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HISTORY (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); TAX INCREASES (69%); CORRUPTION (67%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (60%); 

PERSON: RYUTARO HASHIMOTO (84%); ICHIRO OZAWA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



435 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Drinking Leads to Dismissal Of 1 of 2 Black Simpson Jurors

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif., Oct. 18

 BODY:
The only black man on the jury in the civil case against O. J. Simpson was removed today because of a drinking problem and replaced with a white man.
The move to dismiss the man -- who believed Mr. Simpson might have been framed by the police -- came less than a day after the jury was seated. 
 His removal required a brief reopening of jury selection, during which a white aspiring firefighter and a white woman who once met Simpson in a shoe store, were also removed from the panel under the defense and prosecution lawyers' peremptory challenges. They were replaced by two white jurors.
By the end of the day, the jury had one fewer black member than it did a day before. It had nine whites, one black, one person of mixed race and one Hispanic. The only black member is a woman in her 60's.
Superior Court Judge Hiroshi Fujisaki sent the new jury home with a warning to avoid information about the case. "There are numerous experts out there that have their fingers in the past case or this case," he said. "They are flooding the media. I don't want you to be affected by any of that."
He told the jurors to return for opening statements on Wednesday. Eight alternates remain to be chosen.
The families of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman are suing Mr. Simpson for unspecified damages, contending that he is responsible for their slayings.
The only black man on the jury sworn in Thursday, Edgar Allen, was removed after four others in the jury pool told the judge they smelled alcohol on his breath. The judge found him "incapable of and unsuitable for jury service in this case."
"Because of his use of alcohol he is excused from this case," the judge said.
Mr. Allen, a black postal worker retired from the Air Force, acknowledged to reporters, "I'm an alcoholic." But he denied he had been drinking while on jury duty.
He said he had gone home on Wednesday night and drank gin and beer, which left a smell on his breath the next day.
Mr. Allen told lawyers during the questioning phase that he had been married several times and he was now in an interracial marriage. He said he thought Mr. Simpson might have been framed by the police.
The white man who replaced him is an unemployed cement finisher in his 40's or 50's who said he had doubts about the evidence presented in the Simpson case.
Nine blacks were on the jury that acquitted Mr. Simpson last October in the 1994 slayings. In that trial, two jurors were removed before testimony began and a total of 10 were replaced by the end of the trial. That jury was mostly black from start to finish.
At his criminal trial, Mr. Simpson's lawyers argued he was the victim of a racist police frame-up. They are expected to use the same defense this time. Polls have shown that blacks are far more likely than whites to believe Mr. Simpson is innocent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: O.J. Simpson and one of his lawyers, Daniel Leonard, left court yesterday in Santa Monica, Calif. Twelve jurors have been chosen in the civil suit against Mr. Simpson, with 8 alternates to be picked. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SIMPSON MURDER CASE; ALCOHOL ABUSE; JURY SYSTEM; SUITS AND LITIGATION JURY TRIALS (92%); LITIGATION (89%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (89%); JUDGES (89%); JURY DUTY (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); BEER & ALE (78%); RACE & RACISM (73%); TESTIMONY (73%); ACQUITTAL (73%); MARRIAGE (70%); AIR FORCES (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); DAMAGES (64%); SHOE STORES (55%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, EDGAR; FUJISAKI, HIROSHI (JUDGE); SIMPSON, O J; BROWN, NICOLE SIMPSON; GOLDMAN, RONALD LYLE ORENTHAL JAMES 'O J' SIMPSON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



436 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Bosnian Serbs Said to Hide Big Supplies of Heavy Arms

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: VIENNA, Oct. 18

 BODY:
The Bosnian Serbs have far more heavy weapons than they formally declared and have resorted to subterfuge to avoid destroying their excessive stock, said Western officials who have been meeting here for the last two days.
The violations of the Balkans arms reduction agreement were determined by the officials who have been exchanging intelligence information in closed meetings here. 
 The greatest discrepancy is in the number of artillery pieces, the weapons that terrorized Sarajevo and laid waste to villages throughout Bosnia, according to American and European intelligence agencies.
The Serbs say they have some 1,350 artillery pieces, while the average of the assessments of intelligence agencies from five countries puts the number at 2,500, said a senior European military officer.
The Serbs are also trying to save more than half their tanks from the scrap heap by designating 300 of them for export or use in research and development, a proposition Western officials find preposterous.
"This is dangerous, this is provocative," a senior official with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe said of the Serbs' conduct. "It can lead to the whole arms control agreement falling apart." The organization, based in Vienna, oversees the agreement.
The officials meeting here to discuss the matter included representatives from the so-called contact group on Bosnia: Germany, Britain, France, Italy and the United States, as well as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Russia, a contact group member, did not attend.
The arms control agreement, concluded earlier this year, sets limits on the number of tanks, armored personnel carriers, artillery pieces, combat jets and helicopters that Yugoslavia, Croatia, the Muslim-Croat Federation and the Bosnian Serb Republic can have. It requires the various Governments to destroy stocks in order to achieve those levels. Exempt from destruction are particular weapons intended for export or for use in research and development programs.
Officials said that all the parties had skirted the edges of full and honest disclosure under the treaty, or, as one NATO official put it, they have been "economical with the truth."
The Croatian Government, for example, has some 500 more artillery pieces than reported, a NATO military officer said. But American and European officials said that the Bosnian Serb violations were the most egregious.
"Cheating and abusing" is how an official of the European security organization with access to the intelligence information described the Serbs' actions. While American and European diplomats are alarmed, it is not clear how far they are willing to go to confront the Serbs. The NATO Secretary General, Javier Solano, and John Kornblum, Assistant Secretary of State, plan to raise the matter with Bosnian Serb leaders within the next week, a NATO official said. But officials acknowledge that talk alone is not likely to persuade the Serbs to make changes.
The most decisive and effective way to bring the Serbs into compliance with the treaty would be for the NATO forces in Bosnia to destroy the weapons. But no one thinks that NATO, which has continually sought to restrict its mission, is going to undertake such a task.
Another option, said a senior American diplomat involved in Bosnian policy, would be for the Americans to provide more weapons to the Muslim-Croat Federation army under an "equip and train" program, which is already in progress.
While trying to come up with a common policy on confronting the Serbs, Western intelligence agencies are still skirmishing over the exact numbers.
At the low end, French intelligence puts the number of Serbian artillery pieces at 1,374, while British intelligence says the Serbs have 2,584 pieces, which is close to the number the Italians have come up with; the C.I.A.'s number is even higher.
Under the arms control agreement, the Serbs are entitled to only 500 artillery pieces.
Officials of the Bosnian Serb Republic declared that its army had 1,355 artillery pieces. But that does not mean it intends to destroy 855 of them. Indeed, the Serbs say they have to destroy only 79 artillery pieces because, they say, 776 are to be used in research and development or exported.
On the matter of tanks, the Serbs have declared that 168 out of the 493 in their inventory are intended for export. But NATO officers note that many of these tanks are of World War II vintage, and it is hard to imagine who would buy them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ; RUSSIA; 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); 

COMPANY: ;ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SARAJEVO (BOSNIA); GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; ITALY; ; RUSSIA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (74%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: BONNER, RAYMOND

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



437 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
Turning Hopes Into Reality In the Bronx

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

 BODY:
ASTIN JACOBO sat in the bleachers of his favorite Bronx ball park, the Yankees logo on his cap positively glowing in the dusky shadows that descended on this patch of earth. He was in a special place, as hallowed to him as another ball park, where the World Series is to open tonight.
Yankee Stadium is a few miles to the south. This one is in the center of the Bronx, and his heart. It's the Mapes Athletic Field, a place for Little Leaguers with big dreams. It's on a block in Crotona that emerged in the 1980's from the charred buildings and soggy lots left by the fires that once flashed through the borough, like the one broadcast to the country by Howard Cosell during the 1977 Series. 
 Jacob -- nobody, from mayors to mothers, calls him Mr. Jacobo -- grimaces at that remembrance.
"In the 1970's there were fires, I know that," he said impatiently. "But people should know that one fire is extinguished with another fire. Sometimes you have to be careful and see that when a community is going down, instead of adding more firewood they should help put it out."
He did. Since coming to this neighborhood 27 years ago, Jacob has been on a mission to rebuild Crotona with renovated and new housing, corner gardens and a stray ball field or two. He jokes that the fires and chaos used to be so bad in the 1970's that you could dance to the musical mayhem of fire alarms, bells and sirens. Not anymore.
UNFORTUNATELY, this neighborhood isn't where you'd find George M. Steinbrenner 3d or any of the other Bronx bashers who would like to move the Yankees someplace else.
"Yes, Steinbrenner has the money put into the team," he said. "But we have our pride and future and spirit."
There once was a time that the only fire Jacob knew was the kind hurled by the young Dominican ballplayers he scouted for the Houston Astros. Bad times at home forced him to move to the United States, where he settled into a job as the custodian of St. Martin of Tours Elementary School. He knew sports and he knew young people, so he nudged them into teams. Through the children he got to the parents, persuading them to band together and fight for rebuilt apartment buildings, safe streets and better schools.
"From nothing, we started playing ball," he said. "And when the buildings burned, we put the kids into them so people wouldn't strip them of the pipes. The kids would stay with the family until the city or the landlord would come and fix it."
When slash-and-burn was the rule of the day in Bronx housing, Jacob dreamed up some new plays to prevent the wrecking ball from finishing what the arsonist had started. Only one family was living at 785 East 181st Street when the city decided to demolish it. Jacob cajoled officials to visit the building before they razed it.
HE raced back to the neighborhood and rounded up a half-dozen people to move into the almost-empty building, asking them to stay only until the housing officials had visited. It worked. Today the yellow-brick building is a low-income co-op, spotless and quiet as it rises behind the Mapes Athletic Field.
"This has been out of this world," Jacob said with a smile and gaze that lock on you. "The changes we've seen."
It might as well be another world for the thousands of baseball fans who will descend on the Bronx today with hardly a glance to the rest of the place. If a village arises from the ruins and no one comes to see it, does it really exist?
Mayor Edward I. Koch used to visit often, ever since Jacob challenged him to do so at a 1983 Town Hall meeting. Jacob credits the former Mayor and the Bronx Borough President, Fernando Ferrer, with providing the encouragement and money to embark on the rebuilding of Crotona.
Before he took to wearing his Yankees cap late this season, Jacob usually sported a green cap in honor of Mr. Koch. The green, to him, symbolized the new life found in the gardens, houses and ball fields that were reclaimed from the rubble. He has yet to find a hat for the current Mayor, who he says has yet to visit.
"It doesn't take nothing for a leader to come to the people," Jacob said. "If we don't see your face, how can we trust you? You don't have to talk a lot to change a community. It's the people who devote themselves to the job."
That's good advice for a certain team owner too. It comes from a man whose eye for talent and potential is equally keen on the diamond or on the street. A man who, with no regrets, gave up the big leagues for the Bronx.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CROTONA (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ARSON; FIRES AND FIREMEN STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); REAL ESTATE (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); YOUTH SPORTS (75%); FIRES (74%); ATHLETES (71%); ARSON (69%); TRENDS (66%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (65%); CHILDREN (65%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; JACOBO, ASTIN HOWARD COSELL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



438 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: FUTUTES MARKETS;
U.S. Energy Chief Rejects Action To Push Heating Oil Price Down

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18

 BODY:
Hazel R. O'Leary, the Secretary of Energy, said today that the Goverment would not intervene to ease a sharp rise in heating oil prices.
After meeting with oil company executives and some industry experts for about an hour today, Mrs. O'Leary said that it would make no sense for the Government or "Big Brother to go and buy heating oil and put it in storage," when homeowners and truckers needed it to meet the demand for the season. 
 Speaking to reporters at the Energy Department, she said that the department would look at a proposal to stockpile such products when they are in short supply but that no action would be taken during the current heating season.
"I don't see an impending crisis," she said. "I see a tight market. My job is to watch this."
Expectations that no change in policy would come from Mrs. O'Leary bolstered heating oil futures prices today on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Heating oil for November delivery jumped 1.77 cents, to 74.06 cents a gallon.
Other energy prices were also higher today. The November crude oil contract climbed 37 cents, to $25.79 a barrel, the highest price since Jan. 16, 1991, and November gasoline rose 1.41 cents, to 67.94 cents a gallon.
Representatives and senators from the Northeast and some consumer groups have urged Mrs. O'Leary to intervene and sell off part of the crude oil in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and to stockpile heating oil.
Prices to consumers have gone up in recent weeks for heating oil and diesel even as the industry is stepping up production. Despite the pickup in production, inventories continue to fall and are far below last year's levels. On Thursday, the Energy Department reported that stocks of heating oil and other distillate fuels fell 900,000 barrels last week to 111.4 million barrels.
Heating oil stocks are particularly lean on the East Coast, which uses two-thirds of all heating oil in the United States.
Prices have also begun to rise on the retail level, with some distributors reporting that consumers are already paying 10 to 15 cents more a gallon for heating oil compared with last year.
The reason that refiners find themselves with low inventories resembles the pattern of last spring, when gasoline prices surged.
Refiners sought to keep inventories low late last summer, believing that the price of crude oil would fall when Iraq, under an agreement with the United Nations, re-entered the world oil market. But that planned limited sale of oil has since been suspended.
Even with refiners now operating at almost full capacity, they have been unable to rebuild the stockpiles for distillates. Strong demand for diesel fuel by the trucking industry as a result of brisk economic growth and an incentive to export low-sulfur diesel fuel to Europe has helped to keep down the stockpiles of heating oil.
Since diesel and heating oil are refined from the same part of crude oil, strong demand for diesel has had an effect on heating oil production.
Of the 20 companies invited to today's meeting with Mrs. O'Leary, 16 sent representatives, including officials from Amerada Hess, Exxon, Mobil, Texaco and Shell Oil, a subsidiary of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
Two refiners at the meeting pledged to take steps to stave off a potential heating oil shortage. The Tosco Corporation said it would increase output from its refinery in Linden, N.J., earlier than planned.
And the Citgo Petroleum Corporation, which is owned by Petroleos de Venezuela, offered to delay planned maintenance at a refinery in Lake Charles, La.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (70%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (70%); 

SUBJECT: HEATING FUEL; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (93%); HEATING OIL PRICES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DIESEL FUEL (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TRUCK DRIVERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); TRUCKING (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS; O'LEARY, HAZEL R (SEC) HAZEL R O'LEARY (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



439 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: Campaign Trail;
THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

 BODY:

Movie Money
In mid-September, when President Clinton was in Beverly Hills at the sumptuous estate of the supermarket magnate Ron Burkle, he broke bread with some of Hollywood's biggest names and raising $4 million for the Democratic cause.
The President was back in California on Thursday. He was at the sumptuous estate of the supermarket magnate Ron Burkle, breaking bread, etc., etc. 
 Lunch for 200 at the 10-acre, three-Monet Burkle spread, built in the 1920's by the silent-film star Harold Lloyd, was a mere appetizer in a day-long menu of political money-collecting. Mr. Clinton also led a fund-raiser for Dick Swett, the New Hampshire Democrat running neck and neck for a Senate seat now held by a Republican, Robert C. Smith.
That night, he also attended a fund-raiser on the Universal Studios lot with Michael Douglas, Mr. Clinton's alter-ego in the 1995 film "The American President," as master of ceremonies. ("I sort of thought I should be up here introducing him tonight," the President joked.)
All told, campaign officials said, the events took in about $5 million. Two other fund-raising sprees scheduled in the next week or so are expected to raise another $10 million for the Democratic National Committee and the party's House and Senate political arms.
The timing might have seemed unfortunate, given the developing furor over potentially illegal Democratic Party contributions solicited in part by an Indonesian colleague of the President. Mr. Clinton's strategists were said to be unfazed. Republicans, too, have "all fed at this trough," said the campaign's spokesman, Joe Lockhart.
 
Dole in Junior High
Meanwhile, Bob Dole appeared before a Denver audience on Friday to unleash a biting attack on President Clinton's trustworthiness and offer detailed explanations of the Dole-Kemp platform on taxes, Medicare and Social Security. The crowd went absolutely wild.
Unfortunately, they couldn't vote: Mr. Dole was addressing the sixth-, seventh- and eighth-grade classes of the Place Middle School.
Standing before a banner reading "Bob Dole: choice of the next generation" and accompanied by the disco-style beat of the group Black Box, Mr. Dole gave the 12- to 14-year-olds much of the same stump speech he gives baby boomers and retirees out in the workaday world.
It was one of the stolid campaign's odder moments, enhanced by the fact that Mr. Dole's audience had the fervor of a Republican rally in Orange County, Calif.
"Maybe some of the young people may not fully comprehend all of this," Mr. Dole began. Demonstrating why this might be so, he explained the percentage differences in the growth of Federal spending under his economic plan and that of the Clinton Administration, adding, "For the family earning $30,000, that $1,261 -- that's about an 86 percent tax cut."
Mr. Dole promised them that he would cut the capital-gains tax in half. (Squeals of delight.) He led the crowd in a cheerleader-style chant of his campaign's slogan, "It's your money!" (Pandemonium.) He denounced teachers' unions. He denounced the flow of foreign political money into Democratic coffers.
He accused Mr. Clinton of attempting to scare America's elderly into believing that he would cut their Medicare benefits.
"I haven't seen any seniors in here," he told the youths. "But in case any senior citizens show up: We're not going to cut day care. We're not going to cut Social Security. We're going to increase Medicare spending by 39 percent under our plan. And Social Security is going to be increased by 34 percent."
For some reason, Mr. Dole left out one part of the platform: he did not discuss his plan to reduce the estate tax. MICHAEL WINES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS; FINANCES; MOTION PICTURES FUNDRAISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FILM (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BABY BOOMERS (65%); MEDICARE (61%); ETHICS (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB; WINES, MICHAEL; KEMP, JACK BILL CLINTON (91%); RON BURKLE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



440 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1640 words

HEADLINE: Money Does Grow On Trees;
Turning Fall's Many Colors Into Basic Green

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
In towns and villages from Maine to New York's Catskills, a sure sign of fall has long been the throngs of visitors who come to admire the annual color spectacular put on by dying leaves.
Now, though, autumn's splendor has also become big business in higher elevations and cooler climes from coast to coast. 
 In many locales, leaves are the basis of a whole new tourism season, as growing numbers of visitors travel long distances -- even from overseas -- to join day-tripping leaf watchers in creating traffic jams along the back roads of America year after year. New England still draws the largest crowds, most tourist dollars and biggest traffic snarls,but unlikely states like Georgia and Arizona are also luring spectators to the southward-marching fireworks.
The peak season is blazingly brief -- a week or two at best in any one area -- so local merchants have only a small window of opportunity to rake in tourists' dollars. The timing can vary, at the whim of the crisp nights needed to turn the leaves red and gold. Visitors who fail to time things just right can wind up looking at green, or bare, trees.
And the competition to promote one locality's display over every other's has grown sharp. Frustrated tourists have found, for example, that some states' foliage hot lines have been known to put the most colorful spin on nature's wonders.
Still, foliage fans are traveling in droves, many arriving in their own cars on weekends or mini-vacations, but tens of thousands come on bus tours that last up to 10 days and can easily cost $1,500.
"It was like seeing what God can do with His paintbrush," said Philip Kent, a retired civil servant from South Pasadena, Calif., who with his wife, Gloria, recently returned from a weeklong foliage bus tour of four New England states. "It's more than indescribably beautiful, it's a spiritual experience."
Last October alone, more than 600 tour buses visited Newport, R.I., a popular way station on foliage tours, as well as a reminder of America's gilded age. This year even more buses are expected to make their way to Newport, and 10 ships on foliage cruises have docked there in recent weeks, including Cunard's venerable QE2. The cost of a five-day cruise? From $1,100 to $4,400 a person.
While fall foliage has long been inseparable from spirituality, esthetics and love of nature, it is economics that is transforming it into big business. States and communities that only recently took the changing leaves for granted have come to realize their economic potential, especially as they have seen leaf watchers fill hotels, restaurants and bed and breakfasts that in the past were shuttered soon after Labor Day.
"Many people who have seen the foliage in New England now want to see it in West Virginia, Pennsylvania Dutch country or on Mackinac Island" in Michigan, said Carol Snyder, a spokeswoman for Maupintour in Lawrence, Kan., a tour company that offers dozens of foliage trips.
States and communities are also successfully marketing autumn to foreign tourists.
"International tourists are our fastest-growing group, especially tourists from the United Kingdom and Germany," said David C. DePetrillo, director of tourism in Rhode Island. Britain does have its own fall foliage, "but it's nowhere near as spectacular as in New England," acknowledged Robin Prestage, press relations executive for the British Tourist Authority in New York.
With that in mind, many states, including all six in New England, have sent delegations abroad to woo tour operators and travel agents, and they have invited foreign journalists to see autumn's grandeur for themselves, which has usually resulted in favorable articles back home.
Perhaps less predictably, Sedona, Ariz., a popular winter tourist town between Phoenix and the Grand Canyon, spent about $50,000 last year underwriting such trips, and this foliage season the town has been rewarded with a big increase in British visitors.
"Leaf-changing visitors have made September and October our best two months," said Frank R. Miller, executive director of the Sedona-Oak Creek Canyon Chamber of Commerce.
Because of all the marketing abroad, tour officials say many first-time foreign visitors come with a reasonable understanding that leaves change at different times, depending on the elevation and the weather -- which is more than can be said of some Americans.
Right now, the foliage season is past in Colorado and the higher elevations in the East, but the peak color is making its way from southern Vermont to the New York area. In North Carolina, the leaves around Asheville in the Blue Ridge Mountains won't peak before this weekend; the high point in the state's coastal areas will follow in a couple of weeks.
"Every year we get calls asking what day the leaves are going to change," said Dan Tomlinson, manager of the Quality Inn Biltmore in Asheville, N.C. "And because Kimberly Avenue is particularly beautiful, with lovely old houses and lined with maple trees on both sides, we sometimes even get calls asking what time of day the leaves are going to change on Kimberly."
Many communities have established fairs, festivals and craft shows to tie in with the foliage, in the belief that visitors want to do more than look at leaves.
Fort Fairfield, Me., only a stone's throw from the New Brunswick border, promoted this year's brief foliage season -- which began in mid-September -- as an opportunity for visitors to see potato harvests. That is when many schools in the area close for three weeks so pupils can help bring in the crop.
Wisconsin, where foliage tourism is up 14 percent since 1993, published its first separate fall catalogue this year, a 16-page booklet listing a dozen fall festivals and nine scenic drives. Other states tie foliage visits to trips to outlet malls and shopping centers.
"New England has done such a great job of packaging foliage tours that it has created a demand for that kind of thing in many other states," said Kelly Ladyga, spokeswoman for the Colorado Travel and Tourism Authority.
Among the more unusual tie-ins in Colorado are a cowboy poetry gathering in Durango, sightseeing tours to Rocky Mountain National Park, tied to the elk mating season, and a "Roadkill Supper" in Kremmling that includes elk chili, moose and antelope. ("But we don't actually scrape it up off the road," said Carol Jarbo, director of the Kremmling Chamber of Commerce.)
Andy Dawson, executive director of the Shenandoah Valley Travel Association -- whose promotional efforts within the 150-mile-long corridor in northern Virginia include the scenic Blue Ridge Parkway and Skyline Drive -- said his association used to compete for foliage tourists with Williamsburg and other Virginia destinations.
"Now," he said, "we're competing with everybody up and down the East Coast."
While that might sound grandiose to many New Englanders, it is not regarded as boastful by Bobbe Maynes, commissioner of the Vermont Department of Tourism and Marketing.
"Vermont's and New England's foliage is still unique," she said, "but because Virginia, Ohio, Illinois and lots of other states are pumping big money into their foliage promotions, we've had to struggle to maintain market share." The popularity of Branson, Mo., and the Foxwood Resorts Casino on the Mashantucket Pequots' reservation in Ledyard, Conn., has also cut into Vermont's foliage tourism, she said.
Vermont spends about $1 million a year promoting tourism and derives about $400 million of its $2 billion total tourist revenues from leaf watchers. Neighboring New Hampshire earns about $700 million from fall tourism, or 23 percent of its total.
To encourage tourist visits, especially outside the crowded fall weekends, nearly 100 Vermont hotels, motels and bed and breakfasts have offered discount midweek packages this year.
For the first time, also, Vermont has created a toll-free foliage hot line, and for the second consecutive year, it has financed local leaf hot lines in 10 cities, including New York, Boston and Philadelphia.
The foliage hot lines in many states, regions and cities are based on reports from volunteers, forest rangers or visitors' bureaus. Such hot lines often include the current color and quality of the leaves, the projected number of days or weeks until color peaks, plus recommended scenic drives and festivals.
Georgia, whose native son Johnny Mercer wrote the lyrics to "Autumn Leaves," probably the best-known paean to the season, invites leaf watchers to dial a toll-free United States Forest Leaf Watch Hot Line to check foliage conditions in the northern part of the state.
Critics say that with so many tourist dollars at stake, some leaf hot lines tend to gild the lily -- or the maples, oaks and aspens at any rate.
"Last fall's leaves were the worst in years because of the prolonged drought, and some states' foliage season this year suffered from storms and tropical winds," said one Midwest tourist official. "But I can't think of a single hot line in either year that so much as hinted that anything was less than perfect."
After record rainfalls in many parts of the country in the last year, in many states this autumn's peak leaf days are about a week later than usual. But visitors who have already witnessed the foliage season in higher elevations agree with tourism officials that this is one of the most spectacular change-overs in years.
Yet given the fickleness of Mother Nature, even veteran leaf watchers sometimes guess wrong.
"You take your chances," said Jean Walker, a retired secretary in Fort Collins, Colo., who has taken foliage trips to New England, the Ozarks, the Carolinas, Arizona and the Great Lakes. "My last trip to New England, in 1990, turned out to be a twig tour," she said. "All the leaves were gone."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heavy traffic in the New Hampshire village of Conway means tourist dollars for local merchants. The fall foliage season is their busiest time of the year. (Christine Jacobs/Conway Daily Sun, for The New York Times)
 
Charts "Across the Land, Golden Leaves Are Falling"
Tourists in search of fall foliage are helping create a new tourism season in the autumn. Here are the average dates for peak fall foliage color across the United States and a look at the economic impact on some areas. (Source: Pennsylvania State University) (pg. 37)
 
"Finding Fall Foliage" lists sources of information about fall foliage. (pg. 39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (93%); MAINE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (85%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWPORT, RI, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (72%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (72%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); GEORGIA; ARIZONA; UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); MAINE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (85%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC TOURISM (90%); CRUISES (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); MOUNTAINS (78%); US LABOR DAY (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); RESTAURANTS (60%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



441 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 52; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Julian H. Levi, 87, Influential Advocate of Urban Renewal

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Prof. Julian H. Levi, a Chicago lawyer, educator, city planner and an influential advocate of urban renewal, died on Wednesday at his home in San Francisco.
He was 87 and had formerly lived in the Hyde Park neighborhood of Chicago, where he helped stem the tide of urban blight that threatened to swamp the University of Chicago community in the 1950's. 
 Professor Levi was one of the country's foremost experts in stabilizing racially changing neighborhoods and helped shape national urban policies.
He retired in 1980 as professor of urban studies at the University of Chicago. At his death he was a professor at the Hastings College of Law, part of the University of California at San Francisco.
Professor Levi (pronounced lee-vee) argued that vibrant urban environments should reflect the nation's diversity. He saw this as people naturally living, working and shopping together, places where white homeowners could sell to blacks and blacks to whites without ado.
From 1952 to 1980 he was the executive director of the South East Chicago Commission, which was created save Hyde Park-Kenwood, the country's first large urban community to undergo such planned redemption at its own request.
Hyde Park-Kenwood was the only truly integrated section of Chicago. But whites, including members of the university faculty and staff, were fleeing en masse as mostly poor black Southerners moved in. Housing was falling apart, crime and drugs stalked streets, and what had been a desirable city environment was turning into a slum.
"The very life of the university is at stake," Lawrence A. Kimpton, the chancellor, warned the City Council at a time when the University of Chicago was seriously considering a new lease on life in the suburbs.
The response to the community's plight, with its implications for Chicago's future as a whole, was a "total wallop," in Professor Levi's phrase. It ranged from a Quaker group training dogs to patrol the campus against muggers to a huge influx of Federal construction aid.
With the community, civic and religious groups, Chicago, Illinois and Washington all pulling together, and with Mayor Richard J. Daley's lending powerful political support, the effort became one of the country's great urban success stories.
The project involved an area of about 900 acres and some $200 million in city, Federal, university and private money. Large tracts near the university were cleared as unredeemable, but the emphasis was strongly on preservation and rehabilitation.
Eighty percent of existing structures and gabled architecture lived to see a new day. And Hyde Park-Kenwood survived as the same highly articulate, highly organized and racially integrated community it was before.
In 1974, Mayor Daley named Professor Levi the chairman of the Planning Commission, giving him a hand in stabilization and development throughout Chicago. Professor Levi also helped draft amendments to the Federal Housing Act on behalf of the cities and state legislation directed at landlords of blighted buildings.
Julian Hirsch Levi was born in Hyde Park, the son and grandson of rabbis. He graduated from the University of Chicago College in 1929 and received a degree from its law school in 1931. He spent 15 years in private practice and then worked for the Reynolds Pen and Reynolds Printasign companies before turning his attention to urban renewal.
He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Marjorie Reynolds Levi; a son, William G., of Kansas City, Mo., and a daughter, Kay L. Pick, of Winnetka, Ill.; two brothers, Edward H., of Chicago, a former president of the university who served as Attorney General in the Ford Administration, and Harry, of Highland Park, Ill., and four grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HYDE PARK MARKETS (88%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RELIGION (78%); STALKING (77%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SUBURBS (72%); 

PERSON: LEVI, JULIAN H (PROF); SAXON, WOLFGANG JULIAN H LEVI (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



442 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitian Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 3-6
 
RARE UNITY BEHIND YELTSIN
 
Russian leaders joined in rare unity to support President Boris N. Yeltsin's decision to dismiss Aleksandr I. Lebed, the former national security adviser whom they all view warily as a rival for power. 1
 
DIVIDED NICARAGUA SET TO VOTE
 
Nicaraguans are scheduled to elect a successor to President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro on Sunday, and about the only point of agreement is that her six-year tenure has been a disappointment. 1
 
COMMUNISTS SURGE IN JAPAN
 
With a squeaky-clean image, Japan's Communist Party is attracting disaffected voters before elections on Sunday, and some analysts say it could double its share of seats in Parliament. 4
 
KURDISH BATTLES WORSEN IN IRAQ
 
Fighting between Kurds intensified in northern Iraq, with a faction allied with President Saddam Hussein gaining as the United States tries to broker a cease-fire. 5
 
SHIFT IN AFGHAN FIGHTING
 
Fighting in Afghanistan has shifted to a road junction leading to the strategic Bagram military airfield, once the nerve center of the Soviet occupation in the 1980's. 5
 
SERBS REPORTEDLY HIDING ARMS
 
In violation of an arms reduction agreement, the Bosnian Serbs have kept far more heavy weapons than they have declared and have avoided destroying their excessive stock, Western officials say. 6
 
National 7-11
 
CHEMICAL DETECTION WARNING
 
Czech soldiers responsible for chemical detection during the 1991 Persian Gulf war say that American military commanders were repeatedly warned that sensitive detection equipment had identified Iraqi chemical weapons on the battlefield. 1
 
NOT THE BIG STORY
 
As the coverage of the Clinton and Dole campaign visits to California unfolded, it pointed up a barrier that Bob Dole faces as he tries to punch his message through here and elsewhere: dwindling attention to Presidential politics by local news programs. 1
 
DEMOCRATS SUSPEND FUND RAISER
 
The Democratic National Committee said that it had suspended the fund-raising activities of a senior party official with long ties to a prominent Indonesian family and had asked for a Federal review to determine whether he had solicited any improper donations. 1
 
DINOSAUR WITH FEATHERS?
 
A fossil dinosaur has been found in China that shows traces of feathery down along its spine and sides -- a sign that it may have been an early ancestor of birds. 1
 
GOOD TIMES IN THE PLAINS
 
Residents of Nebraska and other upper Plains states are having economic good times. But those good times might not translate into votes for the Democrats in these traditionally Republican states. 7
 
MISTRIAL IN POLICE CASE
 
A judge declared a mistrial in the Pittsburgh manslaughter trial of two white policemen in the death of a black motorist. 7
 
DOLE TAUNTS CLINTON
 
Bob Dole taunted President Clinton about unexplained foreign contributions to his party. "Come on, Mr. President," Mr. Dole said, punching his arm into the air, enjoying the cheers from his modest crowd. "Come clean, Mr. President. Come clean, Mr. President!" 8
 
COSTLY SOUTH DAKOTA RACE
 
Senator Larry Pressler, Republican of South Dakota, faces a challenge from Representative Tim Johnson in a Senate campaign that has been the longest, most expensive and most bitter race the state has ever seen. 9
 
SIMPSON JUROR REMOVED
 
The only black man on the jury in the civil case against O. J. Simpson was removed today because of a drinking problem and replaced with a white man. 11
 
Metro Report 25-29
 
POLICE OFFICER KILLED
 
A New York City police lieutenant was shot and killed last night on a quiet Brooklyn street as he came to the aid of a woman being stalked. Minutes later, the suspect in the shooting was killed in a hail of police gunfire. 1
 
FROM SANDLOT TO THE SERIES
 
 Tonight, as Joe Torre goes to his first World Series and takes the Yankees to their first in 15 years, many in his old Brooklyn waterfront neighborhood feel as if he is taking them with him. He is the only manager born and raised in New York City to take a New York team to the World Series, a fact that sweetens the local victory that much more. 1
 
Business Digest 37
 
Arts/Entertainment 13-19, 24
 
Sports 30-35
 
Obituaries 52
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 22-23
 
Editorials
 
The fight over street art.
 
Slow changes in Japan.
 
A good law yields more voters.
 
New York sues big tobacco.
 
Letters
 
Frank Rich: Dole's pregnant silence.
 
Russell Baker: Another tiger oversold.
 
Richard Pipes: Lebed unbound.
 
William D. Hansen: An ivy-covered shell game.
 
Hart Seely and Frank Cammuso: The Fenway conspiracy.
 
Bridge 19
 
Crossword 18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); CHINA (79%); GULF STATES (56%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); CHINA (79%); GULF STATES (56%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); MISTRIAL (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); DESERT STORM (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); MANSLAUGHTER (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



443 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Narrows, but Just Slightly

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18

 BODY:
The nation's trade deficit edged down only slightly in August from its near-record level in July, the Commerce Department reported today, as improvements in trade with Western Europe and Japan were largely offset by growing gaps with other nations, especially China.
The decline was far less than most forecasters had predicted. 
 The report brought a withering attack on President Clinton's trade policies from Bob Dole, his Republican challenger. In a statement, Mr. Dole linked the nation's continuing trade deficits to the loss of manufacturing jobs, and called the latest numbers "proof perfect why economic anxiety is endemic among American workers."
Administration officials said the focus should be on the continuing growth in exports, which they said were supporting high-paying jobs in industries across the nation.
The overall trade deficit -- the amount by which imports of goods and services exceeded exports -- declined to $10.8 billion in August from $11.6 billion in July, a drop of 6.9 percent. August imports were $80.1 billion, up 1.5 percent, and exports were $69.3 billion, up 3 percent.
For just the second time, the largest deficit in the month was with China. The gap between imports and exports rose to $4.7 billion in August from $3.8 billion in July, exceeding that of the longtime leader, Japan, which was $3.8 billion, down from $4.3 billion in July. The deficit with Western Europe narrowed sharply, to $1.6 billion from an unusually high level of $4.2 billion in July.
The deficit with China -- one of a host of politically sensitive issues in the relationship between Beijing and Washington -- has bounced up and down on a month-to-month basis. It appears to have grown in August as the United States imported more toys and Christmas decorations to build inventories for the holidays.
The deficit with China for the first eight months of the year was $24.2 billion, an increase of $2.4 billion, or 11.2 percent, from the comparable period last year. But China's deficit has not been the fastest growing this year among the nation's biggest trading partners.
That honor belongs to Canada, the largest single trading partner of the United States. So far this year, the United States deficit with Canada has grown $4.8 billion, or 44 percent, compared with the period a year earlier. Demand in Canada for United States imports has declined in the last year largely because of fiscal and monetary policies that have slowed growth there. Demand in the United States for raw materials and automobile parts from Canada has remained strong.
The deficit with Japan, long the bane of American trade policy, has dropped 28.5 percent this year, compared with the first eight months of 1995.
The overall August deficit was the second largest, behind that in July, since 1992, when the Government began to gauge trade figures in a new way that is not comparable with earlier reports. Under a different system that derived roughly comparable monthly figures from quarterly data, the deficit last topped the levels of July and August in the last three months of 1987, when the average monthly deficit was $12.9 billion.
The American economy has been showing clear signs of slowing over the last several months, and economists said the surprisingly large size of the August trade deficit might mean that third-quarter growth was even lower than the 2 percent or so that many forecasters had expected.
The economy grew at a 4.7 percent pace in the second quarter, and third-quarter growth of less than 2 percent could be low enough to give Mr. Dole's attacks on the Clinton Administration's economic record more credibility in the Presidential campaign's closing days. The Government's first report on growth in third-quarter gross domestic product will be issued on Oct. 30.
To mainstream economists, the persistent American trade deficit mainly reflects the inability or unwillingness of the United States to finance its investment fully out of domestic savings. The gap has been filled by foreign capital, which must be matched by a comparable deficit in goods and services.
While the swelling of the deficit in the summer months probably contributed to a slowdown in growth, the trade deficit's stubbornly high level reflected in part the underlying strength of the American economy relative to those of the nation's big trading partners, most of which are just recovering from recession or muddling along with anemic growth. Because the United States has been growing faster than other nations, its demand for imports has been higher.
Administration officials were also quick to point to the healthy growth in exports, especially in capital goods like aircraft and computers, as evidence that the nation's competitiveness was undiminished.
"Exports are on track to a new record high this year," said Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor, crediting the gains in part to the Administration's new fair trade agreements, especially with Japan and China.
But whatever credit the Administration deserves -- and the Dole campaign asserts that it deserves none -- a combination of protectionist trade policies among other nations, low savings in the United States and lackluster economic growth in industrial nations elsewhere have made it difficult to bring the deficits down.
For the first eight months of the year, the trade deficit stood at $74.7 billion, 5.2 percent lower than for the similar period last year. But economists said the deficit for the full year was likely to be as high as for last year if not higher, as 1995 ended with a string of unusually low deficits.
And that has led to a critique of the standard economic explanation for the high trade deficit. "Six or eight months ago most economists and forecasters were saying that the trade deficit would be lower this year," said Larry Chimerine, the chief economist at the Economic Strategy Institute, a research group in Washington.
"Now it's more than likely that it will be higher this year than last year. No matter what happens -- the dollar goes up, the dollar goes down, the economy grows, the economy doesn't grow -- it's the same old story.
"It's about time people started realizing that this is not a macroeconomic problem or an exchange rate problem. It's a structural problem."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Further Japan Drop
 TOKYO, Oct. 18 (Reuters) -- Japan's trade surplus fell 30 percent in September and the surplus with the United States declined, the Government said today.
The drop means the surplus has fallen more than 40 percent in the first half of Japan's fiscal year. The overall surplus fell 30.3 percent, to $6.96 billion in September, from September 1995, while the surplus with the United States fell 8.5 percent from a year earlier to $3.56 billion.
 The figures "are very good for everyone," said Chris Pavlou, treasurer of global markets at the Midland Bank in Tokyo. "The balance with the United States is coming down nicely."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Balance of Trade" shows the 12-month trade deficit average. (Source: Commerce Department); "Shifting Trade Balances" shows the change of the United States' balance of goods with various trading partners, 1996 versus 1995. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%); CANADA (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT WESTERN EUROPE (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%); CANADA (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); CHRISTMAS (62%); MONETARY POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



444 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Nicaragua Sour and Unsure As Nation Prepares to Vote

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: MASAYA, Nicaragua, Oct. 18

 BODY:
This town was known as "the cradle of the insurrection" for its role in the Sandinista revolution against the Somoza family dictatorship. Then in 1990, after a decade of Sandinista rule, Masaya helped drive the leftists from power by voting decisively for their opponent, Violeta Barrios de Chamorro.
Today the 133,000 residents of Masaya, a commercial center south of Managua, are disillusioned and deeply divided. With their country voting on Sunday to elect a successor to Mrs. Chamorro, about the only point of agreement is that the last six years have been a disappointment, with one lost opportunity after another. 
 Her years in office have been marked, as she described it at a news conference this week, by "complete respect for civil liberties," as well as the demilitarization of Nicaraguan society. The astronomical inflation and huge deficits of the Sandinista years have also been brought under control. But the cost has been high: incomes have stagnated and half the population lack regular employment, making Nicaragua the second-poorest nation in the hemisphere.
"With Dona Violeta, we did not get what we wanted, which was for our country to be stable and prosperous," said Roberto Garcia Acuna, a 43-year-old teacher, as he sat with colleagues outside a pharmacy here. "We are not at war anymore, that is true, but there is a lot of unemployment, and so there is much discontent in every sector."
But in contrast with 1990, in this election voters here and elsewhere in Nicaragua seem unsure of which direction to turn. Both Daniel Ortega Saavedra, the former President who is again the candidate of the Sandinista National Liberation Front, and his main right-wing rival, Arnoldo Aleman of the Liberal Alliance, are campaigning against the status quo Mrs. Chamorro represents, which they characterize as one of widening poverty and a leadership vacuum.
Mr. Aleman and Mr. Ortega offer markedly different visions of this country's future and radically different interpretations of its recent violent past. As a result, supporters of both men say, Nicaraguans remain profoundly polarized, with the unresolved questions of the 1980's still very much on their minds.
Most polls here show Mr. Aleman slightly ahead, with the support of more than 40 percent of voters, although his double-digit lead has shrunk to less than five points over the last two months. But as in 1990, Mr. Ortega retains the support of about 40 percent of the people, and he and his supporters hope to force a runoff by denying Mr. Aleman the 45 percent of the vote he needs to win in the first round.
Mr. Ortega has been aided by a makeover of his image and program that makes him appear, as Mrs. Chamorro put it, to be "disguised as a saint." Dressed in white, as opposed to the fatigues he favored in the past, he preaches conciliation with the United States and the ruling class, promising that "the blood of Nicaraguans will never again be shed" even as he continues to adhere to the Sandinistas' traditional gospel of economic and social justice.
"For the poor, the Front is the only alternative, and around here there are lots more poor than rich," said Maria Auxiliadora Flores, 36, who runs a small bakery here with her husband, Efrain. "During the time of the Sandinistas, everyone had work, they gave the poor people houses to live in, and they made sure doctors came to keep children healthy. Now all of that has been lost."
But Jose Donaldo Gutierrez Soza, a 45-year-old teacher, argues that "to vote for Daniel Ortega would be like putting a gun to your own head." A Sandinista victory, he said, would mean a return to repression and rationing, while Mr. Aleman's pledge to take a purely capitalist path is a guarantee of prosperity.
"As Mayor of Managua, Aleman has given everyone work, cleaned up the streets, and built schools and roads," Mr. Gutierrez said. "That's what we need, not a weak government like Dona Violeta's, manipulated by the Sandinistas."
Among the thousands of former combatants in the civil war, both Sandinistas and the contras who were supported by the Reagan Administration, their disillusionment with the last few years of peace has led them to set aside many of their differences. In the northern town of Quilali, for instance, the two camps now operate separate veterans associations out of the same set of offices.
"We have an interest in common," said Jose Endrique Mejia Cruz, a former contra. "All of us have screwed-up arms and legs, and all of us get a miserable pension."
Former combatants on both sides describe themselves as soured by the lack of leadership they see.
"For 10 years I had a cause and a future," said Luis Fley, a former farmer and contra leader. "Now all that has been cut short, and I am a Government employee, a tax collector, just trying to survive, like everyone else."
For that loss of optimism, many blame Mrs. Chamorro. In the last couple of years in particular, the country has seemed adrift, with the President hobbled by health problems and ceding most day-to-day duties to her son-in-law and chief adviser, Antonio Lacayo, and a Cabinet widely regarded as corrupt.
"If Dona Violeta had surrounded herself with honest advisers, we would have been fine," said Guillermo Ramirez Ayala, a 58-year-old jeweler here. "But that Government has become a nest of vipers, penetrated by corruption and full of people getting loans they never pay back. All kinds of donations come from Europe and Japan, but not even a pencil reaches the classroom."
At her news conference, Mrs. Chamorro defended her performance, saying she has faced "enormous obstacles" in her effort to turn a dictatorship into a democracy and a socialist economy into a free market. While the problem of poverty "cannot be solved overnight," she said, she takes pride in having been able to guarantee personal liberties and protect human rights.
But even on that front she has come under criticism. Unlike neighboring El Salvador, which lived through its civil war in the 1980's, Nicaragua has never tried, through a Truth Commission or other official body, to hold accountable those from both the contras and the Sandinistas who were responsible for killings and other human rights violations.
"If the Sandinista era was characterized by repression, the period of Dona Violeta has been one of impunity," said Lino Hernando Trigueros, executive director of the Permanent Commission for Human Rights. "She promised, and had the obligation, to see the worst cases of the past brought to justice, but has preferred to sacrifice justice in order to avoid problems, and so there has been no true reconciliation."
Almost against their wills, though, Nicaraguans are hoping that Sunday's moment of decision will deliver them from the impasse. No matter who wins, they say, the electorate will continue to demand that certain basic demands be met, and will be harsh with the rulers if they are not.
"This country is still quite divided," said Francisco Gaitan Lopez, a 30-year-old laborer here who supports Mr. Ortega. "But we hope that with a new government we can finally get what we really want. To live better and to live in peace, that is everyone's objective."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Both Daniel Ortega Saavedra, left, and his rightist opponent, Arnoldo Aleman, are campaigning against the status quo in Nicaragua's election. (Photographs by Associated Press); Elvis Jarquin placed his thumb print on his voter card application yesterday at an electoral center in Managua. Nicaragua's people appear to be disillusioned and deeply divided going into the election on Sunday. (Associated Press)(pg. 6)
 
Map of Nicaragua showing location of Masaya. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MANAGUA, NICARAGUA (71%); 

COMPANY: SANDINISTA NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: SANDINISTA NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA; MASAYA (NICARAGUA); NICARAGUA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); MANAGUA, NICARAGUA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ELECTION ISSUES ; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); POLITICS (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); TRENDS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; CHAMORRO, VIOLETA BARRIOS DE (PRES); ORTEGA SAAVEDRA, DANIEL; ALEMAN, ARNOLDO ARNOLDO ALEMAN (86%); DANIEL ORTEGA SAAVEDRA (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



445 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2002 words

HEADLINE: Corn Crop Brings Smiles to Nebraska, but Some Are Wary

SERIES: AMERICAN PROFILES: Nebraska

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Neb.

 BODY:
Nebraska has the lowest unemployment rate of any state2.6 percent, exactly half the national average -- and the next lowest rates can be found just to the north, in the two Dakotas.
While a ruinous drought was causing misery for farmers and ranchers this summer in Texas and Oklahoma, agricultural conditions here in the northern Great Plains have been "simply super," said Alfred Matejka, a 73-year-old farmer. "Plenty of rainfall, the summer was not the hottest, no big windstorms to speak of. And now it's just perfect harvest weather." 
 The bounty has drawn notice in the cities. "Even to the untrained eye, it's clear that something special is happening," The Omaha World-Herald wrote in an editorial this summer. "The cornfields are like impenetrable rain forests, forming a leafy green wall that makes country lanes seem like tunnels."
And one more gauge of conditions can be found in the sounds of the lunchtime crowd at Mom's Cafe in Geneva, insists Mel Whiteley, who runs the gas station next door.
"In a bad year, you'll never hear the kind of joking and laughing and getting along that you're hearing now," he said. "A bad year, it's quiet. The banker might be at your back door. A year like this, everyone feels good."
With the November elections fast approaching, Nebraska and other upper Plains states are enjoying strikingly good economic times, fed by one of the best harvests on record, relatively stable crop prices and a surge in agricultural exports.
The good times are palpable to a traveler in small towns in eastern Nebraska and on the streets of Omaha, but figuring out just how they fit into the region's political patterns this election season seeming almost beside the point. A lot of people would rather talk about the weather.
"If we'd had a really poor crop, I guess the tendency might be to try to blame it on someone, maybe blame the current Administration," said Mr. Matejka, cheerfully throwing up his hands when asked for his views on how Geneva might vote this year. "But when the crop is this good, we don't care who's in power."
The good feelings may be helping the state's Governor, Ben Nelson, a Democrat, in his campaign for the United States Senate seat being vacated by Jim Exon; most polls have shown him ahead of his Republican challenger, Chuck Hagel, a businessman, although the race seems to be tightening.
But those feelings do not necessarily translate into a surge of support for President Clinton. Except for 1964, when Lyndon B. Johnson won in a landslide, Nebraska has voted Republican in every Presidential election since 1940, and the state is still widely considered to be solidly in the camp of its neighbor from Kansas, Bob Dole.
 
Some Enthusiasm For Tax Cut Plan
Many people here said they supported Mr. Dole in the belief that the economy was in good shape and that tax cuts might make it even better.
"On this 15 percent cut deal, I know that Reagan tried something like that and everybody said it was a fiasco," said Bryan Dohrman, manager of the local branch of the Farm Service Agency, which administers government farm programs.
"One thing that people forget is that was when we were in an arms race with the Soviet Union," he added. "If we're not putting billions of dollars into armaments, I think we can afford it."
But at the same time, it is probably harder than it might be in a bad year to find people who seem angered at the prospect of Mr. Clinton's re-election. Many seem almost amused by the campaign, or say they have resigned themselves to another four years with Mr. Clinton in the White House.
Even among Mr. Dole's many supporters in this conservative state, jokes about his prospects for victory and about his age are surprisingly common.
As some retired men gathered around the table at the Corner Cafe in rural Seward, Neb., for their afternoon coffee the other day, a visitor's question about the Dole campaign elicited, at first, some chuckling.
"Voting for Bob Dole, why, that's like voting for Jack Graff over there," said one man, motioning to the 86-year-old Mr. Graff, a retired local merchandiser seated at the head of the table, who grinned and slowly raised his hand back in a half-salute. Everyone at the table broke into laughter.
As the conversation grew more serious, it turned out that the men were split on the Presidential election: three for Mr. Clinton, three for Mr. Dole, two still unsure. But all agreed that their town of about 5,000 people was in the best shape it had been in years.
Many here in Geneva said the same, and their feelings do not appear to be unusual. A recent poll of 2,750 rural Nebraskans by the University of Nebraska at Lincoln found that three-fourths believed that life in their towns was as good as or better than it had been five years ago, and a similar percentage said they personally were as well off or better off today than they were five years before.
But many people from Geneva to Seward to Omaha said that while things were going pretty well in their own lives and communities, they found themselves skeptical whenever they heard the President talking about the nation being on "the right track to the 21st century."
"There are a lot of problems in this world," said Byron Norval, a lawyer in Seward. "The problems between the Arabs and Jews are so complicated, so unsolvable -- they go back thousands of years. We have to be very careful about what we do over there."
In places like Geneva, a rural city of 2,310 people in southeastern Nebraska, about 50 miles southwest of Lincoln, there is some powerful anecdotal evidence of growth and recovery in towns that had been almost written off in the 1980's, when a sharp drop in commodities prices and record debts pushed many family farms into bankruptcy.
"There is sort of an air of excitement," said Jill Reisinger, 33, the proprietor of Jill's Sweet Shop on the town square here. "There's new construction on Main Street. People are actually moving in for the first time in years.
The Mayor of Geneva, Rich Muehler, who moved here from Southern California several years ago, said sales at the Ford dealership where he works are the strongest in years. "Business is great," he said. "When farmers do well, everyone does well. When farmers make money, they spend it."
Eighty-year-old Alvin Biester, who has been farming beans and corn in Geneva nearly all his life, said he had recently heard of land in the area selling for $2,500 an acre.
"I remember when it was $40 an acre," he said. "But the kinds of prices we have now, it's just the highest ever."
 
Amid Prosperity, Some Caution, Too
Even as he acknowledged that this year's crop was one of the best he had ever seen, however, Mr. Biester expressed caution. "I'd like to watch what I'm saying about the times being so great," he said. "There's always next year to farm."
Agriculture remains a dominant industry here, and the bountiful corn harvest -- it is still going on in much of the state, so precise figures are not available -- is the mainstay of the healthy economy.
A huge crop can bring economic problems of its own, however, with the laws of supply and demand driving prices down. With the largest wheat harvest on record in the northern Plains and what is expected to be the third-largest corn harvest, the prices of both crops dropped about a third from record high prices this summer, according to the United States Department of Agriculture.
But even those prices mean record incomes for many farmers in the region, and continued strong demand from overseas has kept prices from plummeting. From 1993 to 1995, the value of agricultural and livestock exports from the northern Plains grew 51.7 percent, to $9.5 billion from $6.3 billion, according to Ernest Goss, a professor of economics at Creighton University in Omaha, who does a regular survey of the region.
Some people in Geneva seem happy that there is any growth at all. "It's been a really good year, no question," 24-year-old Brian Lewis shouted above the roar of a combine in a cornfield at the edge of town. He was working a 14-hour day, and the machine he was operating was spitting out a steady stream of corn into grain trucks that came and went almost continuously.
"Where I'm from, this is big," he said, referring to the generous harvest. "Whether or not it's having any effect in a place like New York City, I don't know about that. But here, it's the driving force of the economy."
Still, many people said local economic conditions were not all that promising. In Geneva, Mary Lane, a 27-year-old mother of two children, said she was angry that politicians were demanding work from single mothers without having figured out a way to provide them with affordable child care.
Ms. Lane said she recently got a $5-an-hour job in a local T-shirt factory, only to find that the only acceptable day care in the area was costing her $2.50 an hour for each child.
"I'm not kidding, after they took the taxes out I was behind the game," she said. "I was paying for the privilege of working at that place." She has since quit and gone to work as a child-care provider in her own home, charging $1.50 an hour per child.
Ms. Lane's sister, Sherry Keeler, who has four children and was on welfare until she remarried, said she was angry about the welfare bill signed into law this summer by the President. "It's almost like they're taking from the poor and giving to the rich," she said. "It's going to hurt people. They have no idea what they're doing with this bill."
Peter J. Longo, a professor of political science at the University of Nebraska at Kearney, traces some of such discontent to the exodus -- forced, in many cases -- of farmers in the 1980's.
"There are a lot of people who moved off the farms, into these mid-sized communities of 30,000 or 40,000 people, hoping they could get a good job," Professor Longo said.
 
A Dark Lining In a Silver Cloud
"Only now, they might find they're working for the minimum wage at the Pancake House, say, or as a greeter at Wal-Mart," he added, "and they're finding that dream of a more secure position in life is illusory."
Professor Longo said it was not clear which party people like Ms. Lane might turn to in the election. "A lot of them are just downright angry at government," he said. "They might be more inclined to be Buchanan or Perot voters, or not to vote at all."
Still, in Geneva, where a pleasant ring of stores surrounds the large town square, and the county courthouse and a grain elevator rise like spires over the landscape, many people who were asked whether they or their community were better off than a few years ago replied with an emphatic "yes" to both questions.
At a recent City Council meeting, a group of Boy Scouts watched from the back of the room as part of an exercise to earn their citizenship merit badges while community leaders moved briskly through their items of business.
Most reports were positive. The highlight of the evening was the introduction of a new police officer. "He's coming along real well, learning our town real well," the police chief told the Council.
The only real item of contention, it seemed, was a long-running dispute between the city and the owner of an unsightly local business.
"If it's a junkyard, it's illegal," said the city attorney, Joseph N. Bixby, when asked about possible legal avenues for closing it down. "If it's a recycling center, it's probably legal. How you distinguish between those two, it's tough."
"Joe, it's not rocket science," said the perturbed Council president, Tim Fairbanks. "It's a junkyard."
Still, the Council voted in an amicable manner to continue studying the matter and to try to work for now with the junkyard-or-recycling center owner to improve its appearance.
And that was the meeting. "You picked a good one, guys," Mr. Fairbanks cheerfully called out as the Boy Scouts headed out into the Nebraska night. "I'm not sure we've ever been through this early."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jack Graff, a retired mechandiser, left shared a laugh with Byron Norval, right, a Seward, Neb., lawyer. Jill Reisinger, left, and Brian Lewis welcome the good times. But Mary Lane, right, is angry with politicians. (Photographs by Craig Andresen for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "SNAPSHOT: The Outlook In Nebraska" gives demographics of Nebraska as of 1990 and the 1992 presidential election. (Congressional Quarterly's Congressional Districts in the 1990's; The Almanac of American Politics 1996)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); 

CITY: OMAHA, NE, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: OMAHA WORLD-HERALD CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA; UNITED STATES (97%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); OMAHA, NE, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; SURVEYS AND SERIES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (84%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CORN FARMING (77%); DROUGHT (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (64%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; DOLE, BOB CHUCK HAGEL (79%); BILL CLINTON (77%); BEN NELSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996



446 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 44; Column 4; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: WORD & IMAGE;
Politics On and Out of Line

BYLINE: By Max Frankel 

 BODY:
I HAVE PROGRAMMED my computer to guide me through the season's politics. It yields a private interactive web site that unfailingly tells the truth. Asked Who's Winning? for example, it does not mince words:
The politicians, dummy. They always win. 
 Don't kid around. Who is leading for President?
Clinton. Dole can't make it if he doesn't wipe out the gender gap.
Why have the women of America produced a gender gap?
Watch out for feminist propaganda. Men created the gender gap. It was an army of males that marched out of the Democratic Party behind George Wallace in '68 and '72. Ron Reagan then roped the same crowd for the Republicans in '80, and they're hogtied still.
But haven't the Republicans alienated women by opposing choice and child care?
Wrong again. Men and women don't disagree about abortion or child care. They disagree about the duty of Government. More women than men care about education and health care and they think Democrats do, too. More men than women worry about high taxes and unbalanced budgets and they've been led to believe Republicans do, too.
But don't women mistrust Government as much as men?
Precisely. Which is why the Clintons don't like to mention Government. They prefer to say it takes a village.
Now don't exaggerate. Mrs. Clinton said it takes a village AND a President.
Sounds good. But the truth is it takes not just a village and a President. It takes taxes.
Aha! So that's why Bob Dole always wears that big button reading "15%"?
Maybe. It's a most ambiguous message. His campaign consultants insist that he wear it both to reaffirm his promise to cut taxes by 15 percent and also to denounce Clinton for not paying them their full 15-percent commissions on television commercials.
Can we please avoid the inside baseball? Surely Dole really means, "Read My Lapel: I will cut your taxes by 15 percent."
That's not at all what he means, and I'll explain if you can handle a few simple statistics. He's promising to cut your taxes by 3 or 4 percent in 1998 -- provided you give him Republican majorities in both houses. Then maybe he'll also cut taxes 3 or 4 percent more in 1999.
O.K., I get it. But he intends to keep on cutting until he gets to 15 percent, right? And he intends at the same time to balance the budget, obviously betting on economic growth?
Terribly wrong, yet again. He is betting on the iron law of history that two years after his election the Democrats will have regained control of the House of Representatives. They will then either stop his tax cutting or take the blame for ballooning the deficit.
But hasn't Clinton proved that a President can pass his programs even with an opposition Congress? He has raised the minimum wage; mandated family leave; doubled hospital time for child-bearing mothers, and made health insurance portable.
Brilliant achievements, as demonstrated by your gullibility.
Gullibility?
Indubitably. You and the other lazy media are letting Clinton take credit for gifts that consumers themselves will have to pay for. Employers and insurers will get the bill for all those goodies -- after Election Day -- and they, of course, will pass on the cost in higher prices. Absolutely brilliant.
You are, as always, a revelation. Why don't the candidates reveal these truths about each other?
They think their attack ads are more effective when they avoid the truth.
Oh, come now.
Just watch their commercials. There in the Dole ads you see Clinton, encouraging teen-agers to smoke pot and wishing he himself had inhaled. And there in the Clinton ads, they've got Dole opposing the idea of letting parents off from work to attend their kids' illnesses and funerals.
Wait just one minute. You can't possibly deny the Administration's own report that teen-age drug use has doubled in only one year.
I don't deny it. I dismiss it. I read in The Wall Street Journal that they radically rewrote the survey that year, dropping 6 of 12 questions about marijuana. Then they "adjusted" the previous year's results for what kids might have said if they had heard the new questions. And then they "adjusted" some more with "logical imputations" for the missing and contradictory answers. For example, some kids said they used pot last month, but not in the last year. Really reliable stuff. If the media polled like that they'd be predicting a Perot landslide.
And you also dismiss the charge that Dole opposed family leave for 12 million Americans?
Absolutely. The facts are that only two or three million people take long leaves from the large companies covered by the law, and most of those companies already had maternity and sick-leave policies. So this is either a trivial new benefit, or, if it ever becomes significant, it will cost workers reductions in wages and other benefits. There's no free lunch hour. If you really want to help working families, pass a law that requires doctors, dentists and teachers to grant appointments on evenings and weekends.
So what is this election really all about?
Except in wars and depressions, all elections are about overpromising. This year Republicans promise to make Government and tax collectors disappear. Democrats promise to dispel economic anxiety. Both parties have agreed, of course, never to mention foreign affairs, race relations or traffic jams.
Maybe the candidates would address important issues if we forced the networks to give them free air time?
Don't believe it. The more free time you give the candidates the more money they will have for buying 30-second attack ads. Besides, the networks already contribute huge sums to both parties and resent having to give free air time for "debates" they don't control.
You don't even value the debates?
First one turned me off. Neither man sweat. Both put Poland under NATO domination. Nothing unrehearsed except one "No comment."
You find them boring?
No, transforming. Senator Gingrich did almost as well as President Liberal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); BASEBALL (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); ANN LIVERMORE (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



447 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: Demographics and Destiny

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman; Paul Krugman's most recent books are "Peddling Prosperity" and "Pop Internationalism."

 BODY:

WILL AMERICA GROW UP BEFORE IT GROWS OLD?
How the Coming Social Security Crisis Threatens You, Your Family, and Your Country.
By Peter G. Peterson.
Illustrated. 237 pp. New York:
Random House. $21.
 
THE AARP
America's Most Powerful Lobby and the Clash of Generations.
By Charles R. Morris.
286 pp. New York:
Times Books/Random House. $23.
In this silly season politicians are once again promising that we can have it all -- that we can cut taxes, spare every popular spending program from even the smallest cut and still balance the budget. Nobody really believes them; if the public is willing to indulge such fantasies, it is because it does not, when all is said and done, really take the budget deficit seriously. After all, we have run huge deficits year after year as far back as anyone except economists can remember, and the sky has not fallen. Where is the crisis? 
 Just over the horizon, that's where. Through a kind of sound-bite numerology, the political debate over deficits became fixated last year on the seven-year prospect; each party insists that its economic program will balance the budget in the year 2002. Neither will, but that is beside the point. Responsible adults are supposed to plan more than seven years ahead. Yet if you think even briefly about what the Federal budget will look like in 20 years, you immediately realize that we are drifting inexorably toward crisis; if you think 30 years ahead, you wonder whether the Republic can be saved.
Peter G. Peterson states the reason for this succinctly in his brief, scary new book, "Will America Grow Up Before It Grows Old?": "By 2025 at the latest, the proportion of all Americans who are elderly will be the same as the proportion in Florida today. America, in effect, will become a nation of Floridas -- and then keep aging." As one of his chapter titles puts it, "demographics is destiny." Because baby boom was followed by baby bust, the United States a generation from now will have far more retired people than ever before, while it will have hardly more working-age residents than it has today.
Why is that scary? Because although politicians encourage the public to believe that its hard-earned dollars go to support legions of unnecessary bureaucrats and Cadillac-driving welfare queens, in reality what the Federal Government spends your money on mostly is benefits to the middle-class elderly. Well over half of Federal spending -- other than that on national defense and interest on the national debt -- goes in one way or another to retired people, mainly in the form of Social Security and Medicare, but also via Federal pensions and veterans' benefits. "The AARP," by Charles R. Morris, points out that even Medicaid, which is usually described as medical insurance for the poor, has increasingly become a program of aid to the elderly, with a growing share of the money paying for nursing homes, often for retirees whose middle-aged children are middle-class or better.
Generous benefits for the elderly are feasible as long as there are relatively few retirees compared with the number of taxpaying workers -- which is the current situation, because the baby boomers swell the workforce. In 2010, however, the boomers will begin to retire. Every year thereafter, for the next quarter-century, several million 65-year-olds will leave the rolls of taxpayers and begin claiming their benefits.
The budgetary effects of this demographic tidal wave are straightforward to compute, but so huge as almost to defy comprehension. Mr. Peterson, the chairman of the Blackstone Group, a private investment bank, informs us that "the combined Federal cost of Social Security and Medicare, expressed as a share of workers' taxable payroll, is officially projected to rise from the already burdensome 17 percent in 1995 to between 35 and 55 percent in 2040. And this figure does not include the many other costs -- from nursing homes to civil service and military pensions -- that are destined to grow along with the age wave."
But aren't Social Security and Medicare basically pension funds, in which workers' contributions are invested to provide for their retirement? Hardly. A private pension fund that planned to pay the benefits these programs promise would be accumulating huge reserves. In fact, the so-called "trust funds" are making barely any provisions for the future. In another spectacular statistic, Mr. Peterson notes that if Medicare and Social Security had to obey the same rules that apply to private pensions, the reported Federal deficit this year would be not its official $150 billion, but roughly $1.5 trillion.
In short, the Federal Government, however solid its finances may currently appear, is in fact living utterly beyond its means. While the present generation of retirees is doing very nicely, the promises that are being made to those now working cannot be honored.
How did such a state of affairs come to pass? Mr. Peterson simply deplores our improvidence, but Mr. Morris, the author of several books on public policy, provides at least a partial explanation. Indeed, even if the aging of the American population were not our most crucial economic policy issue, Mr. Morris's book would be an invaluable and depressing case study in the sources and misuses of political influence. Textbook political economy tells us that large, diffuse groups of people are usually ineffective at defending their interests. How, then, did the 32 million members of the American Association of Retired Persons, most of whom joined only to get the travel discounts it offered, become what Mr. Morris calls the "800-pound gorilla of American politics?
Mr. Morris's answer is enough to give even a hardened cynic pause: for most of its history the A.A.R.P. was basically a business enterprise using politics as a sales gimmick. Until the 1980's, a mogul named Leonard Davis effectively controlled the organization, using its publications and mailing lists as a way to sell insurance to members. The A.A.R.P.'s political activism was undertaken essentially for advertising purposes: just as corporations sponsored the recent Olympics to enhance the credibility of overpriced gym shoes, the A.A.R.P. sponsored pro-retiree legislation to enhance the credibility of overpriced insurance policies. Of such seeming trivialities are public policy disasters made.
Ironically, the Davis years were brought to an end by another institution whose commercial success depends on its image as a public crusader: the television program "60 Minutes," which did a devastating expose of the organization in 1978. Since then, the A.A.R.P. has gone a long way toward cleaning up its act. But efforts to turn it into an advocate of responsible policy have failed: like the broader body politic, the A.A.R.P. has been unable to defy its own vocal minorities, who are refusing to make even minor sacrifices. When the A.A.R.P. endorsed the Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988, which would have benefited at least two-thirds of its members but imposed a modest net burden on affluent retirees, it faced rebellion -- and supported the bill's repeal the next year.
Both Mr. Morris and Mr. Peterson offer plans to avert the crisis ahead. The details differ, and Mr. Peterson's proposal is more completely fleshed out, but the general thrust is clear: slow the growth in benefit levels, gradually raise the retirement age, impose limits on expensive terminal medical care that prolongs life for only weeks or days and -- last but not least -- raise taxes moderately now, rather than massively later. We need not dwell on their sensible proposals, however, because there is not the slightest prospect that they will be put into effect -- or indeed that we will do anything serious about the looming crisis until it is almost upon us.
Both books take comfort from the economist Herbert Stein's famous dictum that unsustainable trends tend not to be sustained. Something is bound to give -- but what? Will retired boomers -- who will have even more political clout than today's smallish population of retired voters -- be willing to accept a sharply reduced standard of living? That is hard to imagine. Will younger voters be willing to accept huge increases in tax rates to support the boomers in the style they have been promised? That is equally hard to imagine. Or will the Government try to square the circle by simply printing the money it needs, creating runaway inflation? Surely that is inconceivable. Yet one or more of these unthinkable things will happen, because something must.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WILL AMERICA GROW UP BEFORE IT GROWS OLD? (BOOK); AARP, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TIMES BOOKS (57%); AARP INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGING (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); MEDICARE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); LITERATURE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MEDICAID (70%); MILITARY BENEFITS (65%); VETERANS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL; PETERSON, PETER G; MORRIS, CHARLES R PETE PETERSON (89%); PAUL KRUGMAN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



448 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 19; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Cowboy Stories

BYLINE: By Keith Schneider; Keith Schneider, a former national correspondent for The New York Times, is executive director of the Michigan Land Use Institute.

 BODY:

The Last Ranch
A Colorado Community and the Coming Desert.
By Sam Bingham.
363 pp. New York:
Pantheon Books. $27.50.
In the early 1990's, Sam Bingham spent a year in Colorado's San Luis Valley. While there, he chronicled a good-hearted ranching community's daily struggle to beat back the desert and all the other forces of politics, economics and nature challenging a century-old way of life. 
 Cowboys, cattle, water and dust have engaged American writers at least as far back as Mark Twain's "Roughing It." What makes Mr. Bingham's account a worthy addition to the library is more than astute reporting and ironic style. The central lesson is that even in a place of wondrous scale -- a grand expanse of range guarded by 14,000-foot peaks -- the world is now much smaller.
The story begins in the winter of 1992, as Donnie and Karen Whitten are preparing their herd for mating and movement to high summer pasture. The Whittens represent the stubborn resolve of a rural community coping with changes in climate and markets that seem to be conspiring to drive its members off the land. They were high-school sweethearts. They live in a double-wide trailer. They have three children. And they come from families that have endured in a place where it rains eight inches a year.
Mr. Bingham, a magazine writer and naturalist, contrasts their plain earnestness with the parade of almost extravagant international characters drawn to the valley to cajole, to exploit or to save the day. Among them are Allan Savory, a Rhodesian guerrilla warfare specialist turned grazing guru. He teaches ranchers how to restore high country forage by mimicking the grass-saving behavior of migrating African herds and moving cattle to new range according to a fixed schedule. Another is Maurice Strong, a Canadian billionaire who helped form a Colorado water company that proposed to sell much of the valley's most precious resource to sprawling cities hundreds of miles away. When the plan prompted immediate protests from ranchers, Mr. Strong, later the organizer of the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, sold his interest. A third character is Devraj Sharma, a Hindu mathematician who is an expert in computational fluid dynamics and the star witness in a court case against Mr. Strong's former company. He becomes a hero by showing how the water plan would do irreparable harm.
The contrast between this improbable cast and the practical residents of the San Luis Valley gives "The Last Ranch" its appealing energy. So do Mr. Bingham's curiosity and his writing skills. When the difference between profit and ruin is 8 cents a pound, everything matters, and his command of detail is impressive. He is equally at ease describing the biology of leafy spurge, a feared cattle-sickening plant, as he is dissecting the politics that in 1992 meant Representative Ben Nighthorse Campbell defeated the former governor, Richard Lamm, for the United States Senate. But Mr. Bingham's interest in relating everything he learned also leads to a serious flaw: three arduous chapters on the trial with sentences like these: "Even a 10 percent change in ground cover meant 50,000-70,000 acre feet of water, which, times the seasonal error times crude analysis of the plant communities times inaccurate predictions of the water table made the game a crap shoot."
Fortunately, new characters like Bud Williams, an old Oregon-raised cowboy, mitigate passages like these. Mr. Williams amazes young farm hands by herding the wildest cattle simply by talking to them soothingly and walking beside them slowly, with his hands in his pockets. You never pressure an animal from the rear, he says, explaining that animals are a lot like people; they don't like to be chased. If you really want to irritate somebody, just follow him around. As with the collection of raconteurs, hustlers and blokes that people Twain's Western classic, the great treat of Mr. Bingham's story is that it is told through characters who always seem to say more than they intended.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LAST RANCH, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); COLORADO, USA (94%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (66%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); FAMILY (76%); MOBILE HOMES (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (73%); CHILDREN (70%); WITNESSES (60%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH; BINGHAM, SAM SAM BINGHAM (95%); MAURICE FREDERICK STRONG (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



449 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 52; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 7275 words

HEADLINE: Slamming the Door

BYLINE: By Jason DeParle; Jason DeParle is a staff writer for the Magazine based in Washington.

 BODY:
THERE PROBABLY AREN'T MORE THAN A DOZEN people who have read this year's housing appropriations bill, but its eye-straining type breaks new ground in the revision of the social contract. With one obscure sentence, the Federal Government has essentially conceded defeat in its decades-long drive to make housing affordable to low-income Americans. Even in an era of Government retreats this one stands out, both for its importance and its odd election-year invisibility. No one seems to have noticed, least of all the candidates. But two decades of rising rents and falling wages have created record numbers of people, including working people, who can't afford to pay the rent.
The Government's response is noted on page 29 of the housing bill's accompanying report. There, Congress specifies the number of "incremental certificates and vouchers" -- in English, the number of additional families that can expect rent subsidies from the Government this year. Housing analysts monitor this number the way pitchers study batting averages; it is the best single summary of what they need to know. Protesters hit the streets during the early years of Ronald Reagan's Presidency when the Government "slashed" the number of new families getting help to 40,000 a year, from previous highs of about 400,000. Oh, for the good old Reagan days: the bill that President Clinton signed last month drops the number to zero. And there is no reason to hope that it will rise again. 
 Stable, affordable housing keeps kids in school and adults on the job. It helps the upwardly mobile save to buy homes, and it keeps the downwardly mobile out of foster care and shelters. While the housing cuts are alarming for any number of immediate concrete reasons, they also present a troubling symbolism. The zero marks the demise not just of a budgetary line but also of a hope that has transfixed reformers for a century: that all Americans can find safe, decent and affordable housing.
These days that hope sounds quaint at best, if not impossibly naive. Housing has simply evaporated as a political issue. But housing problems are far more central to the lives of the poor than a number of the issues -- immunizations, school lunches -- that have made recent headlines. The cost of shelter breaks the budgets of low-income Americans or crowds them into violent ghettos, far from good jobs and schools -- or both. Indeed, it's hard to imagine a poverty solution that doesn't take account of the relentless struggles most poor people face just finding a place to live.
About the time that Congress was eradicating the signature line of housing policy, another report was rolling off the Government printing presses, again in utter obscurity. It notes that five million needy households now pay more than half their pretax income for shelter, a punishing percentage that can crowd out other purchases, like food. (The Government says shelter is "affordable" if rent and utilities consume no more than 30 percent of a household's income.) These five million households constitute a record number and one that is growing at a near-record rate, through recessions and recoveries alike.
Their circumstance is not, as it might seem, the perennial condition for low-income Americans. It is something ominous and new. A generation ago, there were more cheap apartments than poor families. But demolition and gentrification have reduced the supply at a time when stagnating incomes virtually doubled the demand. As a result, there is a housing shortage that has altered the way low-income Americans live. Throughout the provinces of the new low-wage economy, people are making beds and guarding buildings, vacuuming offices and washing dishes, and they can't afford the rent.
To put things in perspective, consider that 15 million households qualify for Federal housing assistance, but only 4.5 million actually get it. (Out of these, about a third live in Government-run projects, and two-thirds rent from private landlords with Government help.) Of the 10.5 million that don't get help, the 5 million that spend at least half their income on shelter are simply the most desperate. Indeed, the scarcity of housing assistance offers a preview of how other programs may fare in a post-entitlement, balanced-budget world. Only one eligible family in three receives aid, and the demand is so great in many cities that even the waiting lists are closed.
While those paying 50, 60 or even 70 percent of their income for shelter include the disabled, the elderly and welfare recipients, there are also surprising numbers of working families in the same fix. Two million of the five million household heads with severe rent burdens are employed, and 1.2 million are working full time. Among other things, their situation offers a dark commentary on the stringent new welfare bill. Say it proves its doubters wrong, and those pushed from the rolls find jobs. Where are they supposed to live?
THE DEATH OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING -- WHAT A STRANGE notion in a nation as spectacularly housed as this one. Overall, the United States shelters more people in better-quality homes than any country in the world. (Ask the Japanese.) And it does so by offering the middle and upper classes exactly what it tells the poor it can no longer afford: generous Government subsidies. The $66 billion a year the Federal Government now spends on mortgage-interest and property tax deductions is about four times as much as it spends on low-income housing. More than two-thirds of it goes to families with incomes above $75,000.
If the candidates detect any inequity in this arrangement, they haven't yet said so. For most of the campaign, they simply ignored the subject of housing costs. Then after months of silence, Bob Dole and Bill Clinton faced off this summer in a sudden competition to give prosperous homeowners even bigger breaks, by all but eliminating capital gains taxes on the sale of expensive homes. On a practical level, their proposals scarcely matter. Most homeowners already qualify for the exemptions (at a cost to the Government of another $20 billion a year). But as a matter of symbolism, the further courtship of the lavishly housed captures all too well Washington's reverse Robin Hood ways.
Perhaps it seems there is no other choice: the very words "subsidized housing" conjure a landscape of failure and waste. But the Government is curtailing its efforts just as the low-income-housing world has produced a variety of success stories the nation could build on, if not to serve the most desperately poor then at least for those a step or two above. As counterintuitive as it seems, the past two decades have arguably produced more successes in low-income housing than in any other realm of anti-poverty policy. The quiet resuscitation of parts of the South Bronx is just one example.
Most of the progress has been led by nonprofit groups that, with Government and foundation support, have grown into adept landlords and developers. They screen tenants and keep projects small; they monitor maintenance and strive, when possible, to mix the poor with the working class. Henry G. Cisneros, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, is now trying to apply some of those lessons to an ambitious redesign of the worst public housing. So far he has presided over the destruction of 22,000 scarcely inhabitable apartments and is replacing them with smaller, mixed-income developments. But the effort comes with a cost. Since the new complexes will also be smaller, the overall housing shortage may grow.
I got my first sense of the problem's scale five years ago on a reporting trip to Charlotte, N.C., which as a midsize Southern city is no one's idea of an unaffordable place to live. But a few days in town and my notebooks were filled with the woes of low-wage workers stooped by their rents. One was a character of such earnest energy, and unlikely misfortune, that he's never quite left my mind; if the housing crisis hit the big screen, Harold Coleman could be its Jimmy Stewart.
A kitchen aide at a downtown hotel, he spent almost 60 percent of his income to keep his wife and two young sons in a decent apartment. He furnished his living room with a reclining chair salvaged from a Dumpster, and all was well, relatively speaking, until the police knocked one night at 3 A.M. and carted him off to jail. The incriminating evidence was the extension cord connecting his alarm clock to a neighbor's patio outlet. With no money for a utility deposit, Harold Coleman had turned into an electricity pirate.
I returned to Charlotte recently to check on its housing situation and found an impressive blend of economic growth and civic concern. The city is booming, with two major sports teams, the headquarters of two growing bank empires, a row of new skyscrapers and virtually no unemployment. The good times have kept the public purse full, and the city is spending a good sum on housing, more than $3 million a year. The banks have been similarly generous, the housing groups are sharp and Habitat for Humanity, the nonprofit home builder, has constructed more homes in Charlotte than almost anyplace else. Citing such promise a few years ago, Jimmy Carter came to town, hammer in hand, to predict that Charlotte would become "the first American community in the whole United States that's going to succeed in eliminating poverty housing."
Guess how the story turns out.
 AT 7:30 A.M. THE DOORS OF THE CRISIS ASSISTANCE MINISTRY HAVE yet to open, but the line outside is already 60 deep. Each year about 12,000 people trek to the social services center, just north of Charlotte's downtown, for help with rent and utilities, and Crisis responds with a mix of funds from churches, businesses, the Government and individuals. Today, the first woman staked her place by arriving under moonlight at 4:20 A.M. The door flings open and the crowd rushes in, clutching the numbered cards that determine the order in which they'll be seen.
No. 4 is seeking a weekly room because a friend kicked her out. "I am working," she snaps at the social worker across the counter. No. 12, a groundskeeper, carries his eviction papers with him, and so does No. 17, a clerk at a temporary agency who was laid off after breaking her toe. (Hers come with a cheerful reminder from the landlady: "Only good things can come from paying your rent on time.") In an effort to keep someone's lights turned on, a Crisis worker calls Duke Power to say the ministry will send a check. Though social work is typically shrouded in euphemism, this exchange comes with an exquisite clarifying slang. In local parlance, this is "Crisis calling the Duke."
Though Charlotte is booming, so is its housing crisis. The ministry got 1,000 more requests for help last year than it did the year before; despite the city's overall prosperity, those seeking help reported incomes that were 4 percent lower and shelter costs that were 7 percent higher. Two years ago, the average person walking through the ministry's doors paid $417 for rent and utilities out of a monthly income of $622, a shelter burden of 67 percent. By last year, the average was $448 out of $596 -- an astonishing 75 percent.
It's fair to question the precision of the numbers. (Poor people tend to underreport their income.) But it's hard to find anyone in Charlotte who doubts the general story the numbers tell. Charlotte's city officials are as given to boosterism as those anywhere else, but when they discuss their low-income-housing market, they start quoting Dickens. "Even with such a bright future, Charlotte is becoming a 'tale of two cities,' " says the city's official housing plan. "There is a growing economic division of the 'haves' and 'have-nots.' "
There are 160,000 households in Charlotte, and about 20 percent meet the Federal definition of "very low income"; that is, they live on less than half the area's median income, or less than $21,000 a year. The city plan notes that these households "cannot afford adequate housing" and that they "often must make hard choices on whether to spend their limited income on shelter, food or heat." About 10 percent -- 16,000 households -- live on less than $12,000 a year. About their prospects, the city is even more pessimistic. Without rental assistance, the plan says, they "are likely to be living in highly unstable situations, or doubled up with other families, behind on their rent and prone to eviction."
Each year the Federal Government publishes a list of "fair market rents," locally adjusted cost estimates of decent but modest shelter. And each year the National Low Income Housing Coalition then calculates the wage needed to afford the rent. To afford a one-bedroom apartment in Charlotte (at $454 a month), a worker needs an hourly wage of $8.73. To afford a two-bedroom apartment (at $511 a month), a worker needs $9.83. That is more than twice the minimum wage of $4.75 an hour.
Notice here that we are talking about workers. Whatever one chooses to think about welfare mothers and their children, the nation makes no pretense to house them: only about one in four nationwide gets rental assistance, and in North Carolina the rest live on cash stipends that average about $270 a month. In other words, a mother on welfare could spend 100 percent of her cash income for rent and still have only half of what the Government says it costs to rent an apartment. Indeed, a welfare check won't pay the fair market rent in 48 states, which is why most recipients rely on boyfriends or unreported jobs, and why many families live doubled up. And so be it: from President Clinton on down, the nation has just said, "Get a job!" But the lesson of Charlotte's economy is that even when poor people do, at hourly wages of $5.50, $6 or even $7, many will still find themselves unable to afford a place to live.
As a result, the Crisis Assistance Ministry is flooded with welfare and working families alike. At age 54, Mary Patton is a repeat client though she has been working since her teens -- on farms, in textile mills and now as a night security guard at a commercial bakery. She started the job four years ago, at $4.75 an hour. By this summer she was up to, well, $4.75 an hour. "They don't give raises that often," she says.
Where does one live on a wage like that? Patton left one apartment when drug dealers shot through the door. She moved from a second when a police helicopter landed in the backyard while raiding her drug-dealing neighbors. Then she found a small brick cottage at the edge of a wooded cul-de-sac, which makes her yard a popular place for teen-agers to strip stolen cars. Patton stores her lawn mower in the kitchen to keep it from being stolen and has decorated her bathroom walls with red pot holders, just for the cheer. Rent and utilities for the two-bedroom house, which she shares with a granddaughter, run $500 a month, or $6,000 a year. That's 61 percent of the annual earnings ($9,896) recorded on her most recent 1040 form.
Oddly enough, Charlotte's housing problems represent progress of a sort. More accurately, they represent the price of progress -- progress in this case being the eradication of the seriously substandard housing that was prevalent in the United States a generation ago. Mary Patton grew up in a house in the Carolina countryside with no running water and a wood stove for heat. It was brutish but cheap: the rent was just $4 a month. Even Charlotte was awash in shotgun shanties at the time. Now, for the most part, the outhouses, tin roofs and slumlords are gone; they've been replaced by housing inspectors, due process -- and rents that are out of reach.
Perhaps no one in Charlotte knows more about the trade-offs than Ted Fillette, a Legal Services lawyer who pushed for much of the change. He arrived in Charlotte 23 years ago, fresh from a legal clinic in Boston, then the hotbed of the tenants' rights movement. Charlotte, he says, "was literally like a third world country -- tenants were like serfs." The city had an entire submarket of caveat emptor homes: take 'em as you find 'em structures with weekly rents and no heat. Tenants could be evicted on two days' notice if they dared to call a housing inspector. "I just decided this would be my focus," he says. "Tenants had to have some rights."
Now they do: rights to repairs; rights against evictions without a court order; rights to trial by judge and jury, rather than landlord-friendly magistrates. What they don't have is money to pay for the improved housing stock. Fillette himself is ambivalent about the trade-off. "Were people better off when they were cold and paying $150 for their own place?" he asks. "Or are they better off with heat and plumbing, but living doubled up or paying every last cent for rent? I don't know."
In the old days, one of Fillette's most frequent adversaries was Robert Pressley, a rural migrant in overalls who was among the most infamous of the city's low-income landlords. These days, the Pressley empire is run by Robert's son, Tony, who is no one's idea of a slumlord. Low-income property is a small part of his sprawling commercial and residential business. He talks of renting inexpensive housing as a "duty," and he has served on the board of Charlotte's leading nonprofit housing agency. But he owns less low-income housing than his father did for a simple reason: there's no money in it.
The market can adapt to the poor person's purse by selling cheaper toys or shoes, but there are only so many corners that can be cut in building cheaper housing. To be sure, codes should be simplified and red tape should be cut. But interest, utilities, taxes -- these costs are fixed, regardless of the occupants' income. It costs between $40,000 and $55,000 to build an 800-square-foot two-bedroom apartment in Charlotte, depending on the land and the interest rate. To service the debt, maintain the building and earn a modest return, landlords need to charge rents of $600 to $750.
The only way to push the rents substantially lower is through a subsidy, either to the tenant or the landlord or through the tax code. "I can't walk on water -- and you don't see any new $400-a-month apartments coming on the market," Tony Pressley says. The handful he still rents are mostly old ones, already paid off. Though Fillette has spent his life suing landlords, he speaks sympathetically of the younger Pressley. "It's virtually impossible to make a profit and comply with the law because of the inadequate income of the customers," he says.
When a middle-income family spends half its budget on shelter (in fact, few do), it is making a life-style choice. When a low-income family does so, it is courting a crisis. The remaining money is rarely enough to pay for the bare necessities. Forget for a moment that these families may find themselves living in a virtual war zone. They may also be facing evictions, utility cutoffs or even shortages of food.
Poor families tend to get displaced so often it's not hard to find children in Charlotte who have attended six elementary schools in a single year. Social workers at A Child's Place, a Charlotte program for homeless children, recently saw a third grader who had been to 13 different schools in a year. In the District of Columbia, the head of foster care has estimated that as many as half the city's foster children could be reunited with their parents if the families had stable housing.
While there is surprisingly little research on the impact of rent burdens, some disturbing hints come from Dr. Alan Meyers, a pediatrician at the Boston Medical Center. In three different studies (two with a colleague, Dr. Deborah A. Frank) he found a connection between high rents and inadequate nutrition. In a 1993 study of 580 poor children, he found iron deficiencies in 19 percent of those whose families had subsidized rents. But of those in families without housing subsidies, 30 percent were iron deficient. In 1995 he published a more sophisticated study of 200 poor children, and this time the differences were even more dramatic. Only 3 percent of the children whose families got housing assistance were underweight for their age. But of the children whose families were on the housing waiting list, 22 percent were underweight. Earlier this year, Meyers published a third study. After examining the records of 11,000 children, he found that they were most likely to be underweight in the 90 days after the coldest month of the year. This bolstered his theory that families choose whether to "heat or eat."
Enough wild claims get made on the topics of homelessness and hunger that one hesitates to make too much of the findings. As Meyers is quick to note, two are based on small samples, and all come from a single hospital. As a scientist, he calls them "suggestive." But as a citizen he speaks with less equivocation: "It's not rocket science. Without housing subsidies, the likelihood is that there will be more hungry and undernourished children."
And more parents like Richard Ussery, a veteran of the Crisis Ministry lines. His file there shows a trail 15 years long of utility cutoffs and eviction notices and doubling up with relatives, though it also shows steady employment. He's 43, separated from his wife and raising an 11-year-old son on his own. These days he's unloading trucks at piecemeal rates. He's been with the same company for about four years. His wages average less than $6 an hour.
I found him in August in a weather-beaten two-bedroom home stuck between two car lots. He was spending about 50 percent of his income on shelter, which doesn't count the $240 repair when Richard Jr. dropped a tennis ball down the toilet. He had curtains on the windows and napkin rings on the table. He also had a stack of eviction threats, with court dates for February, May, June and July. Each had been averted at the last minute by family loans or Crisis Ministry donations or forgone luxuries like fixing his broken false teeth. "Don't none of them go to trial," he declared. "I always pay 'em."
In a three-hour conversation, Ussery did not utter a word of malice toward his landlord, "who's doing what he got to do." And there wasn't a trace of sarcasm in his voice when he said, "I love this place."
When I called back a few weeks later, Ussery had been evicted.
 THE BULLDOZER LOOKS LIKE A HORROR-FILM INSECT AS IT roars across a desolate lot in Detroit. It slams its steel claw through a second-story window and lunches on bricks and glass. The action has drawn a crowd straight out of "The Bonfire of the Vanities" -- kids chomping hot dogs, guys in dashikis, television crews and a man in purple sunglasses who flashes peace signs. When the demolition dust settles and the cheers fade, another 1,064 units of public housing will lie in ruins.
The scene cries out as a metaphor, but a metaphor for what? Presiding in a ceremonial hard hat, Henry Cisneros, the Housing Secretary, hopes the rubble will stand for renewal, of public housing and of urban life more generally. At a time when most housing funds are being trimmed, Cisneros will spend $80 million to transform the site into a smaller, mixed-income development. He is trying to bring down a total of 100,000 of the nation's most blighted units over the next few years. "This is about a renaissance," he tells the crowd, "a rebuilding."
But his efforts coincide with a second, less-happy demolition, that of the overall housing budget. Across the country, the Government is being forced to spend many new billions repairing, preserving or replacing apartments it built years ago; this leaves almost no money for new ones. Housing secretaries like to measure their progress by the extent to which the subsidized inventory grows. But Cisneros may be the first to see it actually shrink.
"It's like bailing water out of the boat while at the other end someone's got a hose and they're filling it from the ocean," he says, leaving the demolition site. "No matter how fast you bail, you can't beat the water coming in. I hope against hope -- I hope against reason -- that the other things we're doing will keep us even."
Keep us even: it says something when the nation's Housing Secretary "hopes against reason" to preserve a status quo that is at a record level of distress. But Cisneros is right to consider this an exercise in optimism, since he operates in a political climate hostile to low-income housing in every way. He runs a discredited bureaucracy with an unpopular cause at a time when even popular programs have trouble getting financed.
President Clinton came to office with a crowded agenda, and housing was nowhere on it. Moreover, housing programs always face a competitive disadvantage in Congress. They don't just serve a smattering of poor people with no political pull; they also compete in the same appropriations bill with formidable rival interests -- like veterans' benefits, the space program, environmental programs and Americorps (the President's national service initiative). And Cisneros' personal clout certainly didn't grow when Federal agents began investigating his payments to a former girlfriend.
Still, he has worked Washington with the same skills he used in San Antonio to become the nation's first big-city Hispanic Mayor at the age of 33; otherwise, housing funds would be eroding even faster. After losing a fight for money for the homeless, Cisneros won an Oval Office appeal by reminding Clinton that the inner-city vote in Cleveland and Detroit had clinched two crucial state victories.
When Vice President Al Gore thought about abolishing the Housing Department, Cisneros got out front with a "reinvention plan." He stalked around the White House after hours, slipping his plan under the doors of officials three ranks beneath him. It was demeaning, but effective. "Henry did more with less than anyone I can think of," says Christopher Edley, a former White House budget official. "Under a lesser politician, the department might be dead."
But Cisneros has little control over the broader market forces that leave those like Harold Coleman in a state of permanent crisis: rising rents and falling incomes. As recently as 1970 there were almost a million more cheap apartments nationwide than there were poor households. (The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities defines a "cheap" apartment as one that rented for the equivalent of $325 today.) But bulldozers knocked some of those units down. Gentrification fixed others up. And rent hikes in general outstripped inflation. Meanwhile, as housing disappeared, the number of needy families exploded during two decades of wage erosion. There are now 12 percent fewer cheap apartments than there were in 1970 but 72 percent more needy households: instead of a housing surplus, there is a gap -- of nearly five million apartments.
In thinking about why this matters, it's important to remember that the housing market doesn't just reflect the nation's income inequality. It also increases it. While renters are paying more and more for shelter, homeowners are now paying less -- even while accumulating the ultimate prize: equity. In 1980 the average homeowner had a mortgage that consumed 30 percent of his after-tax income. Now it consumes 23 percent. (The difference is due to lower interest rates and fewer overheated markets.) In fact, the average homeowner now spends a slightly smaller percentage of income on shelter than does the average renter, even while accumulating considerable wealth. In other words, the housing market offers an increasingly welcome deal to the two-thirds of Americans who can afford to buy. And it increasingly punishes the third left behind.
WITH RENTS UP and wages down, there's basically one way to fill the gap: Government help. But housing is a uniquely expensive social program. It costs more than $6,000 a year to house each additional poor family. (By contrast, it costs $5,000 a year to provide Medicare to an elderly person.) As budgets have tightened, it's no wonder that the number of new units has fallen.
In the heyday of housing programs, the mid-1970's, the Government was financing about 400,000 new apartments a year. In the early 1990's the average had dropped to 36,000. That meant Charlotte was housing fewer than 25 additional families a year; its waiting list is 2,900 families long.
And that was before the housing budget started to implode. Throughout the Housing Department, a series of old bills are wreaking havoc on the $20 billion budget. The technical details could fill a library, but the point is easy to grasp: the cost of preserving the stock has crowded out money for expanding it.
The department now spends almost $2.5 billion a year just to upgrade old public housing projects, replacing boilers and roofs. It spends $550 million to bulldoze and rebuild sites like the one in Detroit. It spends another $400 million to plug a loophole in a program from the 1960's and 70's that gave low-interest loans to private landlords willing to house the needy: the program gave landlords the right, after two decades, to evict the poor and raise the rent, and without the new subsidies, most would.
The department even has its own miniature version of the savings-and-loan crisis looming on the horizon, which has largely gone unnoticed. The department insures the mortgages on about 700,000 financially troubled private apartments. If all the owners default, the bailout costs over the next few years could reach $18 billion. Even a fraction of such losses, which now seem all but inevitable, promise to plunge the department into deeper political and financial turmoil.
At the moment, the old-bill problem is most severe in what's known as the Section 8 program, which has long been the flagship of the nation's affordable-housing strategy. Though conventional public housing is better known, Section 8 houses about twice as many families through payments to private landlords. The 2.9 million families enrolled in the program spend 30 percent of their income on rent and utilities, and the Government covers the rest. (About half the program is "project based," meaning tenants have to live in specific apartments; the other half is "tenant based," meaning families can take their subsidies and move.) Like other housing programs, this one has had its scandals, but on the whole the tenant-based certificates offer the fastest, easiest way to house the poor. And they are particularly appealing to market-oriented reformers because they "empower" tenants with choices that conventional projects don't allow: those who don't like where they live can leave.
When the certificates were first issued in the 1970's, they were financed through long-term contracts. But those contracts are now expiring in record numbers, and they cost billions to renew. Unless the department finds the money, the subsidies will expire and the families will face eviction. This year alone the department has to renew the subsidies on 800,000 apartments, at a cost of about $3.6 billion. In the year 2000 the department will have to refinance 2.5 million apartments, at a staggering cost of $17 billion. That is, the cost of Section 8 renewals alone could soon devour the department's entire budget.
Scrambling for ways to save money, Congress has settled on an obvious one: stop the program's expansion. In truth, the housing expansion hasn't just ended; an absolute reduction has already begun. With some technical tinkering, Congress has managed to slightly reduce the number of certificates in use at a given time. And given the imminent financial pressures, most analysts think that's just a taste of things to come; some predict the overall inventory will shrink by as much as 20 percent. "We'll be very lucky if we don't lose a million of the 4.5 million subsidized units that are already occupied by very low income people," says Cushing Dolbeare, the dean of housing advocates.
The cuts make perfect sense for the Government's budget. But they offer slim hopes for those at the bottom of a new housing economy in which wages don't pay the rent. And the budget cutters know it. They don't predict that the market will fill in the gap. They're not really counting on the poor to bootstrap themselves out of trouble. (Though they sometimes express that hope.) In moments of greatest candor, they simply say that some needs are so great that the Government can't meet them and that housing is a textbook case. "It's a really nasty problem," says a Republican aide who helped draft the housing budget. "There's no way to put a happy face on that."
It's true that other Government programs still build housing, including a housing tax credit and two housing block grants. (But without a subsidy like Section 8, poor families can't afford the units these programs produce.) And it is true that the Government has other programs for the working poor, most notably an earned-income tax credit that provides cash payments up to $3,500 a year. (Indeed, that's a smarter solution than many housing programs offer, since it spreads subsidies further and bypasses bureaucracies.) And it's also true that the Government can't just spend and spend. Higher deficits mean higher interest rates, and that hurts the poor, too.
The point isn't that the Government has done nothing. The point is that it hasn't done enough to give most poor families a chance at decent housing, and that it doesn't do nearly as much for the needy as it does for those with means. Government housing subsidies now do the most for those who need them least. And the politics of the country are construed in a way that pays the issue no mind.
Last month when President Clinton signed the bill that reverses decades of housing history, he actually did so in the middle of a Rose Garden celebration. A celebration, that is, of an unrelated provision in the same bill -- which guarantees new mothers longer hospital stays. Surrounded by dignitaries of both parties, Clinton said it was an "honor to sign this legislation," letting the day's real news -- the death of affordable housing -- pass without comment.
 ON THE NORTH SIDE OF Charlotte, a middle-aged woman in a shiny new van pulls over to snoop. She is surrounded by eight square blocks of resurrected blight with an appropriately biblical name, Genesis Park. But here in their midst is a last ramshackle house, with a bare-chested man on a milk crate in the front yard. "This is Skinny's Liquor House here," she says, pointing to the neighborhood speak-easy. "Skinny has about two weeks left before he's locked out and evicted -- we bought the house."
Pat Garrett is what a housing solution might look like if the country had more money and will. She's just the sort of streetwise character that a housing organization needs -- part social worker, part bottom-line banker. Her precepts are those of other successful managers: screen tenants, tend to maintenance and evict troublemakers. "If you don't have a good property manager, you're going to be in a world of hurt," she says.
If Garretts are what most cities need, the good news is that many have them, at least in limited supply. There are now about 2,000 nonprofit housing groups like hers, and they've built or renovated more than 450,000 units, most of them in the past decade. They operate with Government subsidies from those programs that have survived the cuts as well as with corporate and private contributions. They also get help from two important foundations (the Enterprise Foundation and the Local Initiatives Support Corporation) in picking their way through the technical thickets of development. Their impressive track records address the fear that more subsidized housing would mean more Government-financed slums.
But the first problem is that there isn't nearly enough money to go around. With the groups now building about 50,000 units a year, it would take a century to house the five million families with severe rent burdens. The second problem is that the surviving programs aren't sufficiently targeted to the poor. Nonprofit developers like Garrett rely on three main Government programs: the low-income-housing tax credit, the community development block grant and the Home block grant. Those programs generally serve less needy people -- those with incomes that are 60 percent of the median, or about $25,000 in Charlotte.
There's a reason: the less needy are easier to serve. No one really knows how to house large numbers of the poorest people, especially those on welfare. Group them together and neighborhoods collapse; spread them out in the suburbs, and their new neighbors rebel. But with more Government support, Garrett is convinced that she could build safe, affordable housing for those a half-step up -- people with incomes in the $10,000-to-$12,000 range, like Mary Patton and Richard Ussery. "The big question is the funny money -- the subsidy money," she says.
Charlotte's willingness to provide its own funny money is unusual; most cities simply spend Federal dollars. After years of dealing with Ted Fillette's suits, the city's corporate and government elite decided it wanted to do more to house the needy. In 1986 they convened a two-day symposium and brought in James Rouse, the fabled developer and the founder of the Enterprise Foundation. Within a year, Charlotte made the decision to set aside $4.5 million of its growing annual revenues just for low-income housing.
The main beneficiary is Garrett's group, the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Housing Partnership. It's a public-private venture set up by the city and the town's major banks. In seven years it has built or renovated more than 400 apartments, with rents starting at $245. And it has also produced about 281 single-family homes, with mortgages in the $400-to-$550 range. Each deal comes with its own endlessly complex financing strategy; Garrett has grabbed loans and grants from the city, state and Feds. But her main support is a $2 million annual contribution from the city. And the banks have established a pool of modestly subsidized loans for those who buy the partnership's homes.
No neighborhood shows the payoff more than Genesis Park. The neighborhood was a drug market of such renown that even the adjacent housing project put up a wall to protect itself. In the past four years the partnership has bought more than half of the area's 169 homes, which it has renovated and sold at below-market rates; homes start in the low $50,000's, with monthly mortgages of about $450. Other housing groups also got involved, and the city brought in two "community policemen" to bicycle down its four main streets. In 1993, Genesis Park ranked first among the city's 73 neighborhoods in violent crime. A year later it ranked 41st and violent crime had dropped 74 percent.
The encouraging thing about Charlotte is that other groups, in other neighborhoods, can boast of similar successes. There are plenty of models for the Government to build upon and expand; what's missing is the money. Even Charlotte's housing authority, which deals with the poorest tenants, has a few bright spots. Its president, Harrison Shannon, is an up-from-nothing Vietnam veteran who dresses in French cuffs and preaches a gospel of self-help. Not long ago we climbed into his car for a tour of his 5,000-unit empire. Most of the old, large complexes look like public housing everywhere: rundown acres of Government tenements with too many idle people and a general feel of menace. But as the tour went on, we started rolling through some of Charlotte's nicer neighborhoods, on the way to more public housing.
Beyond the downtown core, there are 20 "scattered site" developments of no more than 50 units each. Most had prompted tooth-and-claw fights from the neighbors, who had understandable fears about property values. Understandable but, as it turns out, unnecessary. According to a study by the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, home values in those neighborhoods rose between 84 percent and 127 percent in the decade after the public housing was built. And property values grew just as fast in those neighborhoods as in other, comparable parts of the city.
But the numbers are less impressive than the apartments themselves, which blend in with the surrounding racquet clubs and bistros. The most intriguing sight can be found off Fairview Road in Charlotte's booming southeast corridor. On one side of the road there's Morrocroft, a subdivision of million-dollar homes whose wrought-iron gates are as self-conscious as its name. Just down the road is Live Oak, 32 units of public housing on nine wooded acres. And in between, there's a fine little reminder that housing programs can work. It's a sign in a muddy field that says, "Future site of Dean & Deluca."
 DURING MY VISIT TO Charlotte, I kept wondering what had become of poor Harold Coleman and his illegally illumined alarm clock. What picaresque strategies had he seized upon now to keep pace with the rent? He wasn't in the phone book, he wasn't on the old job and transience of the poor suggested he probably wasn't in Charlotte at all. But I found a phone number in an old notebook and dialed in on a whim.
He answered on the first ring. "We kept the same phone number," he explained. "I'm bad at remembering phone numbers."
A few hours later, I arrive at a modest brick home on a quiet, wooded street and find an old Honda with a license plate that says, "Christian Radio: A New Way of Life." Harold and his wife, Vicky, have become devout Baptists. "It's really sparked a light in our life," he says. Now 28, Harold has stepped up from his $5 wage as a hotel fry cook, to a $7-an-hour job as a maintenance man at the church. Though he's had expensive eye surgery as a result of his diabetes, a foundation helped with the bills, and his two boys, Tony and Joshua, look healthy and happy.
The Colemans have given up the food stamps for which they otherwise qualify, partly because of the hassle involved, but also because they do not want to be seen as charity cases by their affluent congregation. They have two nice bikes hanging from pegs on the dining-room wall, and they laugh when reminded of the old electricity caper. "Me being as naive as I am, I didn't realize it was illegal," Vicky says.
In other words, things have fallen into place for the Colemans -- everything, that is, but the rent. Assuming he works full time all year at $7 an hour, Harold can pull in $14,500. If he gets lucky and lands $1,000 in overtime, that's $15,500. Throw in the $2,700 he gets through the earned-income tax credit, and his total income rises to $18,200. But his rent and utilities run $600 a month. Or $7,200 a year. Or about 40 percent of the Colemans' annual income. That is, after five years of striving and 10,000 hours on the job, Harold is still barely making it.
His family still has a file at the Crisis Ministry, and it's replete with utility cutoff notices -- two from this year alone. He and his wife stand in line at the center together so neither suffers the indignity alone. "It's degrading in a way," Harold says. "We're like, 'Jeez, I can't believe this is happening.' "
But Harold is nothing if not an optimist. He notes that Job had it worse. With the kids in school, Vicky is about to start a job. And if the economy keeps growing, and the car doesn't quit, and Harold stays healthy -- who knows? Maybe they'll keep the lights and heat on next year.
Among today's low-wage renters, this is what passes for success.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Market forces keep people like Harold Coleman in a state of permanent crisis. Nearly half of his $7-an-hour wage goes toward shelter. (pg. 53); Mary Patton, has worked since her teens. (pg. 54); But the $500 rent on her house, above, takes a 61 percent bite out of what she earns in a year. (pg. 55); To "heat or eat" is all too often the question. The Crisis Assistance Ministry helps with rent and utilities when it can, but couldn't prevent Richard Ussery's eviction from the house. (pg. 56); The agency has been able to keep the lights on at the Colemans' home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MODICA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 57)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE (NC); ; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; MORTGAGES; CAPITAL GAINS TAX ; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LEGISLATION (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); FAMILY (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (74%); TAX LAW (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); FOSTER CARE (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



450 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 30; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY VIEW;
On CD, Orchestras Fall Victim to Their Glorious Pasts

BYLINE: By Lawrence B. Johnson 

 BODY:
THE STRIKING MUSICIANS OF the Philadelphia Orchestra are aggrieved that they have lost their recording contract with EMI Classics. Citing the orchestra's incontestably great recording tradition, that bountiful library begun and cultivated in the epochs of Leopold Stokowski and Eugene Ormandy, the suddenly disenfranchised Philadelphians are asking, in essence, "Is nothing sacred?"
"Why, yes," replies a happy chorus of collectors, "all those wonderful recordings by Stokie and Ormandy." 
 What makes the chorus so happy is the new and improved sound of those beloved older recordings by the Philadelphians -- as well as the Cleveland Orchestra under George Szell, the Chicago Symphony under Fritz Reiner, the Boston Symphony under Charles Munch and the New York Philharmonic under Leonard Bernstein -- in digital remasterings on CD's.
For many classical-music lovers such a list bespeaks a golden age of orchestral recording. Digital technology has retrieved that era and brought it to a new level of sonic splendor. These days, after digital transfiguration, it is often hard to tell the difference between a recording made three or four decades ago and one produced last year.
In a way that was never possible before, the recording traditions of America's great orchestras are coming back to haunt them; or perhaps more accurately, to bite them. The constant stream of reissues that floods the CD bins is qualitatively different from the recyclings of the LP era.
Back in my student days -- when a computer still took up most of a large room -- I prowled the record shops for the latest "budget" reissues on RCA Victrola, Angel Seraphim, Columbia Odyssey, London Stereo Treasury and others. Gems mined from those bins allowed me to own many fine recordings; or I should say, fine performances. The sound of those cheaply remade LP's was typically not great, and the pressings were often blighted by pops and clicks. If you could afford it, you were better off investing in the high-priced spread.
Moreover, 30 or 40 years ago, even as recently as the 1970's, the classical-record industry seemed to have room to expand -- indeed, a driving need to do so. In the early, exciting days of stereo sound, I used to curl up in bed at night with the latest issue of the Schwann catalog and painstakingly map out lists of recordings I wanted to acquire. I watched my favorite record shop for the new releases.
It seemed then that every new recording was momentous; it was a time of musical expansion and revelation. And not merely for the classical sponge I had become but also for a generation of music consumers whose imaginations had been sparked, if not detonated, by stereo and the rapid improvements in hi-fi sound systems.
Today, in place of the simple guide that the Schwann catalog once was, the wide-eyed wanderer in music's enchanted realm holds a tome of options. The current Schwann rivals the Manhattan White Pages in sheer bulk and density. It is still a useful guide, even desperately necessary, given the 60 recordings of this and the 75 of that from which one must choose.
But I cannot imagine curling up with those daunting pages on an autumn night. In its teeming columns of Beethoven, Tchaikovsky and Mahler, Schwann today recalls the scene in "Moscow on the Hudson" in which Robin Williams's Russian character, having been steered to the "coffee line" in an American supermarket, takes one look at the staggering array of choices and faints dead away.
Purveyors of classical recordings in the United States say the market has gone flat. Maybe it has simply fainted. In any case, the current scene is not very good for the big American orchestras. The beleaguered Philadelphians have plenty of company. Decca/London has pared its commitment to the Cleveland Orchestra. Neither the Chicago Symphony nor the New York Philharmonic is recording with anything like the frequency of the glory days. And the Boston Symphony is in the same sail-less, if not sinking, boat.
Yet this bleak picture could brighten for all parties when and if the digital video disk makes its grand entrance. The much-touted (though perpetually pending) new disk holds the potential for a spectacular era of sound recording.
Even apart from the video factor, the tremendous data capacity of this high-density format has sound-recording engineers drooling with anticipation. The new disk, able to store up to 12 times as much information as the present music CD, should raise the ante for sonic realism in terms of both accuracy of timbre and the sense of spaciousness achieved through multichannel effects.
CURIOUSLY, THE MAJOR classical record labels have shown no particular interest in the digital video disk. Across the board, the attitude seems to be: "Consumers are perfectly content with the CD, so why confuse them with a new format?" America's phonographically challenged orchestras might suggest an answer: Never having heard the ripping sound that the "Pathetique" Symphony could have on a high-density disk, record collectors have never heard Tchaikovsky at all.
Fifteen years ago, the classical-record industry was complaining about flat sales. Consumers were not really grousing about the LP; they just weren't buying as many as they once had. Came the CD, and the game began all over again. Sales surged. The industry was "saved." From every perspective, the future looked secure. What is different now? With the high-density desk on the horizon, why no hallelujahs from record moguls? The answer seems to lie in economics.
Not only are American orchestras expensive to record, but the industry already has a sizable investment on the line, represented by the glutted pages of Schwann. This time, technology may not bring the familiar solution. For orchestras enmeshed in losing struggles with their own pasts, the only workable answer may be to stop fighting and strike out in a new direction unique to the digital age: high-definition, multi channel satellite music broadcasts on demand.
One can't help thinking that given the chance, Stokie would have been the first to put his ethereal sound into orbit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (57%); DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL (56%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (84%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (84%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (57%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (84%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (84%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (57%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); COMPACT DISKS SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC STORES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, LAWRENCE B EUGENE ORMANDY (73%); ANTON STANISLAW BOLESLAWAWICZ 'LEOPOLD' STOKOWSKI (58%); LEONARD BERNSTEIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



451 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Vintage Glimpses of a Lost Theatrical World

BYLINE: By MARGO JEFFERSON 

 BODY:
MAYBE IT'S THE FACT THAT the century is ending, but everyone I know is desperate for a performing-arts renaissance. New material, new techniques? Sure, I'll take them. But any renaissance worth its name has to be as much about approaching the past as assessing the present and anticipating the future. After all, the word does mean rebirth.
For a renaissance to be real and healthy, we have to look again at what we think we already know and be willing to uncover what we might have overlooked. Our tools are psychic and cultural, instinctive and analytical: the artist's equivalent of the instruments scientists use to gather information about solar systems they can't see clearly but know exist. 
 When it comes to art, a solid chunk of what we'll call the elemental material does not change. But the settings change, the tones and rhythms change, the arrangements of elements change and our responses change.
I was struck by all this recently when I made my way through just a portion of Jean-Claude Baker's quite ravishing collection of black theater material from the teens and 1920's. Playbills, posters, scores, letters, detailed descriptions of performances, interviews and photographs -- lustrous, surprising photographs from the early years of the century, when American art and entertainment first shook the world, producing ragtime, blues, jazz, a new kind of streamlined popular song, a dizzying number of new dances and enough new expressions and grammatical constructions to permanently alter the English language. There they were, in black, white and every shade of sepia: legends, historical footnotes, innovators and hard-working minor players.
Mr. Baker became acquainted with this world through Josephine Baker, one of its most celebrated performers and expatriates. He toured with her, worked for her, and joined her tribe of adopted children. (Though he was not officially adopted, he later took her name.) He is the author, with Chris Chase, of the definitive 1994 biography of Baker; it was after I had reviewed his book that I met Mr. Baker and got my first glimpse of what is surely one of the best collections of black theater memorabilia in the world.
But what exactly is black theater, I thought, studying images of pantomimists, ventriloquists, blues singers, jazz musicians, languid ballroom dancers, cakewalkers and natty tappers, loud-talking vaudevillians and high-minded thespians. Does it mean the pioneers in forms black Americans were crucial to creating and developing, like jazz, blues, tap, modern vernacular dance and certain styles of verbal and physical comedy? There is ample evidence of them here: delectable photographs of Bert Williams and Florence Mills, Bessie Smith and Louis Armstrong, Ethel Waters (parodying Josephine Baker), the Berry Brothers, Peg Leg Bates and those comic prototypes of Amos and Andy: Flournoy Miller and Aubrey Lyles.
What was I supposed to do, though, with the pictures of black practitioners and masters of forms mostly created and developed by Europeans and European-Americans -- ballroom dancers, pantomimists, operetta stars and lines of chorus dancers in tulle and feathers or black tie and tails? There are plenty of these in the collection too. Are they part of "Black Theater"? Or are they to be categorized and patronized as interlopers -- dutiful imitators of something called "White Theater"?
The richness and the range of a collection like this expose the limits of these terms. In theater, styles and traditions spill past the boundaries of those who first made them up. One people's tradition becomes another's innovation. What one group deems high art becomes grist for pop art somewhere else.
And yet sifting through this collection brings one face to face with a stark fact about the way theater worked for black performers in decades past. If they stayed on their side of the color line, playing to all-black audiences on the all-black theater circuit, they got much less money and much less exposure than on mainstream circuits, but they got to work in many more genres. Not just minstrel shows with their plantation plots, but original musicals in a range of styles (ragtime to waltz), Shakespeare, Dumas, opera selections and Americanized versions of fencing routines, tangos and Russian folk dances. (Bessie Smith hired Ida Forsyne, a black dancer who learned to strut her Russian stuff while touring that country before World War I: "Go on, Ida, show 'em!" Bessie used to shout from the wings before swaggering on to do her blues.)
If these performers were making forays into white vaudeville, they were generally -- though not invariably -- expected to highlight their more obstreperously "Negroid" mannerisms and skills. This is an especially bleak version of the trap every aspiring mass-appeal performer in America, black or white, has encountered: keep doing what the public and the producers know you for. And it's especially bleak -- even lethal -- when applied to an entire race and bound up with offstage opinions of that race's worth and place in society.
I don't want to make martyrs of these performers; they didn't see themselves that way. They knew they were good, and some of them knew they were great. Every performer takes certain risks: Will I make it to the top of my profession? Will I get the recognition and the kind of material I want? Will I get to use my talents to the fullest? But it is doubly hard to take all these risks knowing that the social, economic and artistic arrangements of the world you work in have already decreed that the answer will be "probably not."
In the years these performers were working, as reviews and histories make clear, white audiences liked best to see black singers, dancers, comics and actors playing in styles that were recognizably black. At the same time, black audiences liked to see them doing "white styles," say, opera selections, often right alongside the buck-dancing, raucous comic sketches and ragtime songs.
In general, white audiences rarely saw the kind of stylistic intermingling that took place in a variety of black theaters for a variety of black audiences. But small privileged groups were exposed to it and went looking for it in certain highly specialized, sophisticated spaces: designated "colored clubs" (some with all-white patrons, some with mostly black), like the Cotton Club or Connie's Inn or the Club Alabam' in 1920's New York; an occasional Broadway theater or vaudeville house; nightclubs in Paris, Germany or England, where there was much less paranoia about how a black performer might presume to act on stage or off.
The pictures in Mr. Baker's archive (he has started his own foundation to support research and writing in this field) suggest that free spaces could be found inside the performers too -- that they could play with, against and beyond restrictive racial codes. And countercodes, imposed by black audiences, for in the name of striking back at white prejudice they could be unkind and unfair. When Mr. Baker began interviewing these 1910's and 1920's veterans in the 1970's, they felt that on top of being exploited or ignored by whites, they were now being dismissed as toadies and sellouts by blacks.
But of course free space exists inside audiences too -- consciously and unconsciously, whether they're inside a theater or listening to a radio or phonograph.
What follows are some of the thoughts that struck me as I looked at these pictures. They offer images of delight, dissent and complexity. They ask us to take more risks, think more clearly and imagine more boldly when it comes to race, ethnicity, class, style, sex, esthetics and American theater.
We can't have a renaissance unless we have access to a range of performance styles and impulses that have gone unacknowledged or been oversimplified.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chorus members of the Cotton Club, a hot spot in 1920's New York-- Playing with, against and beyond restrictive racial codes. (Jean-Claude Baker Foundation) (pg. 1)
 
CHILD DANCERS IN PARIS (1903) AND FREDI WASHINGTON AND AL MOORE (1927)
Here are two young performers dancing the cakewalk -- that plantation-derived black dance that became a national and worldwide rage at the turn of the century. Actually, they are doing "Le Cakewalk" at Le Nouveau Cirque in Paris in 1903. They probably began their careers in a medicine show, circus or all-black troupe. Or perhaps as "pics" (short for pickaninnies), youngsters of color hired to sing and dance behind a white vaudeville star. They are typical "pics" in certain ways: the dark brown skin, meant to contrast ostentatiously with the costume or skin color of the leading lady they backed.
But here, in Paris, the color contrasts work for, not against the little dancers: he has the look of a small dashing fencer or gymnast, and she of a garden-party soubrette. You can't miss the erotic touches: the exposed midriffs, his revealing pants, her short skirt waiting to fly up as soon as she kicks her legs. But they are playful, not degrading. There is delicacy here, and innocence, in their faces and in the way they hold their well-trained little bodies. (The Cinematheque de la Danse in Paris has them on film, and they are enchanting.) They embody all of the mixed impulses and motives that first gave rise to the cakewalk. It was said to be a parody by black slaves of their masters' showy party manners, but it read as enough of a tribute (mimicry so often is) to delight the masters and mistresses when they watched it, and to please the slaves as well.
Now, compare these child-troupers to that suave and soigne pair, Fredi Washington and Al Moore, actors and dancers who trudged along from engagement to engagement in the States (musical revues one season, straight dramas or nightclub spots the next), but had great success in Europe in the late 1920's as Vernon and Irene Castle-esque ballroom dancers. They were too lyrical and too light-skinned to be big hits on the American scene, unless they had chosen to cross the color line and pass themselves off as white dancers.
Fredi Washington acted out a version of this career dilemma in the 1934 movie "Imitation of Life," in which she played Pecola, the ambitious, rebellious and fair-skinned daughter of a humble brown-skinned housekeeper, who passes for white because she craves the privileges of being white, and suffers torments of guilt when her mother dies alone. Washington's performance is riveting -- as was her dancing, by all accounts.
I admire her for returning to the United States and helping to found the Negro Actors' Guild, which employed many a struggling performer in the decades that followed. But I wish for her sake that she had stayed abroad. When Mr. Baker interviewed her years later, Washington still recalled the sweetness of her Paris success, and her hotel on the Riviera overlooking the sea. She told him that, at night, "it was as if someone had thrown a handful of diamonds into the water, it was so beautiful; and here I was, thinking of home, the boardinghouses with no hot water, the bedbugs, the life we Negroes had to live, and how much had to be changed; and here I was crying in front of so much beauty." What was your reaction after coming back home, Mr. Baker asked. And the response came back flatly: "Well, I didn't have any reaction, because I knew, after all, what I was facing; I had lived in this all my life."
 
CLAUDE HOPKINS (1928)
America was lucky enough to generate three forms that rearranged the landscape of modern music: blues, jazz and the popular theatrical song. As founders and key participants in all three, black performers tended to have more freedom whenever music dominated and plots could be minimized or dispensed with. Self-contained vaudeville acts or revue numbers often allowed performers like Florence Mills, Bill Robinson or John Bubbles more range than an elaborately plotted musical comedy. And the club, cabaret and dance hall have been at least as important to black theater as any Broadway or repertory playhouse.
What black man was allowed to display as much dash, drama, wit or glamour as the black man who led and performed with his band? James Reese Europe, with his ragtime-era Clef Club Orchestra; Fletcher Henderson, helping set the tempo for the Jazz Age; Duke Ellington; Count Basie; Jimmie Lunceford and so many others, all keeping their musicians in tune and in line, spurring then stilling the eager dancers and gauging -- or manipulating -- the audience's mood every night. The bandleader did for the orchestra what the director does for the play. But when he wrote his own music he took on the role of playwright as well. And since he was on stage constantly, he was expected to conduct himself like a leading man.
Look at dapper Claude Hopkins, who played a lithe stride piano, was the musical director for "La Revue Negre," the show that introduced Josephine Baker to Europe in 1925, let Edward, Prince of Wales, sit in on drums whenever the band appeared in Paris, and had his biggest hit in 1934 with a sleek, airy version of "Three Little Words." He is said to have been admired offstage by both Josephine Baker and the Prince. The mirror in this photograph suggests that he admired himself as well.
The potent and erotic figure of the bandleader can still be found in concert halls and in jazz clubs. But when big bands lost their mass audiences, the bandleader lost his star status. Today, you will find his descendant on various late-night television talk shows. He supplies the guests with backup music; he supplies the host with a theme song and some second-banana chitchat.
 
BUTTERBEANS AND SUSIE (c. 1928)
 Battles of wills and wits between the sexes aren't as much fun as they used to be. Butterbeans and Susie were part of a couples continuum that in the 1910's, 20's and 30's included Burns and Allen; Astaire, first with his sister, Adele, then with Rogers; Noel Coward and Gertrude Lawrence, and the various sparring pairs that peopled romantic and screwball comedies.
But Butterbeans and Susie were lowbrows (television descendants include Ralph and Alice Kramden and Roseanne and Dan Conner). They had a lot of the old minstrel show about them, but the best minstrel-show performers were great clowns who had mastered every trick of physical and verbal comedy.
Susie and Butter, as she called him, were magisterial roustabouts who were always reminding each other of their inauspicious beginnings in some Southern town where one or the other of them sold fish from the back of a wagon. They would trade insults punctuated by refrains like "I ain't scared of you," then see who could come up with the smartest retort, now that they were both settled up North. They delivered their tunes and their wisecracks in rich, artfully laconic Southern accents, perfectly pitched between speech and song.
You can't imitate them, but there isn't a comic duo or musical theater performer around who couldn't learn something about delivery and timing from listening to them.

BESSIE SMITH (early 1920's)
We tend to think of Bessie Smith as an elemental force, a creature of epic proportions who became an emblem of imperiled but mighty black womanhood. What you see in this photograph, taken in the early 1920's, is a slightly shy, vulnerable but thoroughly modern young flapper. This is the Bessie Smith who learned all aspects of her craft, who could Charleston and do comic turns, then send her audience into a trance with her spare but voluptuous blues. And in the 1930's, when slow blues were being supplanted by jazz swing, she got ready to adapt once more.
She died in 1937, but her last, 1933, recordings of tunes like "Do Your Duty," "Gimme a Pigfoot" and "Down in the Dumps" show that she would have been sensational with a big driving band like Count Basie's. Some artists do manage to seem larger than life. But whether they're Bessie Smith or Pablo Picasso, it's because their work was larger -- richer, braver, more willing to take on pain and pleasure -- than life, the way we live it most days of the week.

JOHNNIE WOODS WITH LITTLE HENRY (1917)
When black performers were alone with black audiences, what did they say about race? They joked, they lectured, they commiserated and criticized one another. They mocked social pretensions and snobbery, but they also mocked lowlife manners and attitudes.
Take the ventriloquist Johnnie Woods, a top draw on the black vaudeville circuit in the World War I years. You can see that Johnnie is a prosperous and respectable fellow; there's a touch of Theodore Roosevelt's heft and heartiness about him. But the dummy, Little Henry, is something else again, with his shiny black skin and loud checked suit. Little Henry has turned his back to Mr. Woods -- he's paying his master's voice no mind. And Mr. Woods watches, his hand extended with an air of reproachful, teacherly concern. He is the responsible Negro citizen who is uplifting the race; Little Henry is his dybbuk hand, his racial alter ego -- a rowdy Negro who does what he wants when he wants and race propriety be damned. But Johnnie Woods produced both voices and characters. Who did he give the last laugh to?
 
CHORUS GIRLS: AT THE COTTON CLUB (1925) AND IN THE BROWN SKIN MODELS REVUE (c. 1925)
Now, let's contrast the tastefully languid chorus girls of the Cotton Club with the jauntier chorines who made up the Brown Skin Models revue. The Cotton Club, Harlem's toniest hot spot and tourist attraction in the 1920's and 30's, featured only top black entertainers and admitted only well-heeled white patrons. The chorines were billed as "tall, tan and terrific," and they were beige and cream-colored as well: Jazz Age descendants of those octoroons, quadroons and mulattoes who drift prettily and lasciviously through 19th- and early-20th-century race fantasies.
The Brown Skin Models were meant to satisfy less rarefied tastes. The show's black producer, Irvin C. Miller, claimed that the idea came to him one day as he stood before a Broadway marquee that advertised the Ziegfeld Follies and its glorification of the American (the white American) girl. Just at that moment, a lovely brown-skinned woman walked down the street and into his line of vision. "Why not glorify the brown-skinned girl?" he cried -- and a show was born.
Updated yearly, the Brown Skin Models revue toured the country from 1925 to the start of World War II. Black and brown and beige audiences were clearly delighted to see fantasy versions of their all-American girl next door.
 
JOHNNY HUDGINS ON STAGE (1926) AND IN HIS PARIS DRESSING ROOM (1928)
Johnny Hudgins was a legendary pantomimist and dancer whose imitators included the young Josephine Baker and whose admirers included the young Edmund Wilson. He was equally popular with white and black, American and European audiences. He was filmed by Jean Renoir in a short entitled "Charleston," and he left behind a brief but wonderfully detailed book that described his act in great detail. The Ballroom Dancer with the imaginary girl partner, the Ice Skater, the Charleston specialty in a lady's straw hat with feather plumes and veil, the Pullman Porter, "burdened with bags, suffering under an intense weight and then finally receiving a miserly tip," which provokes a dance called the Porter's Twist. The repertory of steps: the Snake Shuffle, the Baltimore Todloe, the Desert Glide and the Peacock Strut.
In the picture at left he is doing his "Mwa Mwa" routine, turning himself into a human trumpet while alternately bullying and flattering the audience. There is a short film clip of this number, made at the Club Alabam' in New York in 1926. Hudgins's body and face are so fluid and witty, his charm so palpable that the burned-cork makeup, which we have come to read as intrinsically degrading, seems as incidental as the white makeup circus clowns have worn for centuries.
Nevertheless, I do love seeing Hudgins in the picture at right. He is in his own skin, dapper as can be in his dressing room at the Moulin Rouge in Paris, surrounded by celebrity dolls.
Josephine Baker smiles at his right and he cradles Maurice Chevalier in one arm. He holds a Little Black Sambo doll in his other hand, at a slight distance, pointing a finger and arch1ing an eyebrow. Behind Sambo sits a Hudgins doll in blackface, looking a bit abashed. "Don't forget who's in charge here," Hudgins seems to be telling them. (All photographs from the Jean-Claude Baker Foundation, except that of Bessie Smith, which is on loan from Arthur Reagan-Herr, and the Brown Skin Models revue, on loan from Olivette Miller.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; BLACKS CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); WORLD WAR II (79%); WORLD WAR I (79%); DANCERS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); DANCE (78%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (74%); MUSIC (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); WRITERS (66%); WINTER SPORTS (66%); THEATER (58%); ADOPTION (50%); 

PERSON: JEFFERSON, MARGO; BAKER, JEAN-CLAUDE PRINCE CHARLES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



452 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 4; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: L.I. Appealing to Floridians to 'Come On Up'

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN 

 BODY:
REMEMBER the airline that encouraged Long Islanders to "come on down" to Florida?
Now Carnival Airlines is telling Flordians to "come on up." 
 In an advertising campaign Carnival, in conjunction with the Long Island Convention and Visitors Bureau, is promoting fall foliage on the Island in Florida cities that the line serves, Fort Lauderdale, Orlando, Tampa and West Palm Beach.
"We have literally hundreds of events going on at this time of year, everything from a pickle festival in Greenlawn to the Oyster Festival in Oyster Bay that could draw 100,000 people," said the president of the tourism bureau, Michael Davidson.
East End wineries are promoting wagon rides, tours and wine tastings, and the Long Island Fair is in Bethpage this weekend,, and it expects more than 70,000 peple.
"Tourism isn't just a 90-day season on Long Island, but year-round," Mr. Davidson said. "East End resorts are weather dependent. But the rest of the Island depends on meetings, conventions, group tours and business travelers. They are part of what we are all about."
The cool and rainy weather in July and the lack of a heat spell in August hurt tourism, Mr. Davidson added.
"It could have been better," the owner of the 50-room Daunt's Albtross Inn in Montauk, Frances Daunt, said. "The weather and the plane crash did not help at all. Our business was off at least 20 percent from last year, and restaurants were down, too."
The crash of Trans World Airlines Flight 800 on July 17 kept away tourists, Miss Daunt said, even though it occurred off East Moriches. "People perceive the Island as being the Island, whether it's the beginning or the end," she added.
The president of the Long Island Convention and Visitors Bureau, Michael Davidson, said small East End hotels had been particularly hard hit because they generally did not have the advance bookings of larger hotels.
Although the total of tourists for this year is not available, Mr. Davidson said, the proportion from outside the New York metropolitan region rose, from 20 percent in 1994 to 31 last year.
"We have traditionally attracted people from the New York metropolitan area," Mr. Davidson said. "These figures show that we are drawing more people from greater distances. The greater people travel, the longer they stay, the more they spend, and the more economic development activity you stimulate. Otherwise you are just recirculating money that is already here."
He added that the tourist industry on Long Island employed 92,000 people last year, with a payroll of $1.4 billion. Hotel occupancy last year was slightly less than 80 percent, he added, and it fell "2 or 3 percent" in July at East End hotels.
As the weather improved in August, so did hotel bookings, he said, and East End hotels not on the water fared somewhat better than waterfront establishments.
The general manager of the 140-unit Montauk Manor, Janice Nessel, said: "We usually get browbeaten because we're not beachfront. But this year it helped."
She said the hotel, which features an indoor pool, sauna and squash courts, was even with last year. "It was not a good season for anybody, because it rained nearly every weekend through most of July," Ms. Nessel said.
Mr. Davidson said Islandwide occupancy was flat, because the larger hotels on Nassau and western Suffolk depended less on weather. "Their business was from conventions, business travelers and motorcoach groups," he said. "That was very strong this summer."
But weather-dependent attractions like Splish Splash by Adventureland in Riverhead did suffer. "May, June and July were underwhelming, and August was overwhelming," the president of the amusement area, Chip A. Cleary, said. "The weather during May, June and July did not send out signals that summer was here, and so attendance at most area attractions lagged.
"In August people realized time was running out before school started. That, combined with slightly improved weather, brought the crowds out in force."
Overall, Mr. Cleary said, Splish Splash, the largest water park in the state, fell 5 percent from 1995. Last year, he noted, was the best season in the six that the park has been open.
The weather also held down attendance at state beaches, said the director of recreation services for State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation, George A. Gorman.
"Attendance was off at our beachfront parks by about 15 percent," Mr. Gorman said. "Last year was one of our best. So it looks worse this year than it really was."
Crowds at Jones Beach State Park in Wantagh fell 20 percent. The latest figures show attendance from January to Aug. 20 dropped, from 5.6 million last year to 4.4 million this year.
Golf parks, campgrounds, arboretums and preserves and picnic areas reported levels similar to last year, he said. Belmont Lake State Park had 208,000 visitors through Aug. 20 last year and 210,000 this year.
Cool weather may have hurt beach revenues, but they helped retailers. The general manager of the Tanger Outlet Center in Riverhead, Janine H. Nebons, said customer traffic was up 10 percent from Memorial to Labor Day.
Mr. Davidson said his office, in conjunction with Carnival Airlines, started advertising two weeks ago to attract Floridians to new fall foliage trips. He said the ads had appeared in cities served by the airline, which flies to Islip.
Other states, too, advertise on Long Island. Television, newspaper and magazine ads promote attractions like Colonial Williamsburg, which is buying commercials and 30-minute infomercials on cable, New York television stations and News 12.
Mr. Davidson said his bureau was working with Mystic and More, a promotion to attract visitors to the Mystic, Conn., region. In the spring, he added, the two groups mounted an effort to convince bus operators that the region was attractive for group tours. "We did joint advertising in their trade publications, as well as direct mail, and then we knocked on their doors together," said Mr. Davidson.
In April the two organizations took 43 motorcoach operators from 13 states and Canada on a familiarization tour. They spent a day and a half on Long Island and then went to Mystic on ferry from Orient Point to New London, Conn.
The executive director of Mystic and More, Vivian C. Stanley, said the joint venture included meetings with travel agents in Florida that Carnival Airlines had helped arrange.
In February, representatives of both tourist groups spent five days visiting travel agents and tour operators in Clearwater, Fort Lauderdale, Fort Myers, Orlando and Palm Beach.
The partnership is trying to sell international travelers on seeing New York City and Long Island, taking the ferry to Mystic and going to Newport and returning home from Boston. "It's a very easy and pleasant trip," Ms. Stanley said. "The ferry carries cars and motorcoaches, and it's a nice way to get from one lovely area to another. Long Island Sound is a lovely alternative to struggling into and out of New York City."
Her organization, she said, has a $1.2 million-a-year budget and promotes Mystic and More primarily through New York magazines.
Connecticut has a campaign that promotes the state as a whole and with an annual budget of $3 million to $4 million, Ms. Stanley said. "Our visitors come primarily from New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania," she noted.
Mr. Davidson said the visitors' bureau was expanding its advertising as far as Rhode Island and Washington. "This was our most organized effort to broaden the market into Long Island," he said. "Last year we had no calls from Rhode Island. this year we got 160 after running one ad there."
The year-old North Shore Promotion Alliance, founded by Gloria D. Rocchio, has 85 chambers of commerce, museums, restaurants, arts organizations, hotels and shopping centers between Great Neck and Port Jefferson.
In the past, Ms. Rocchio said, vistors "would come thinking they could see things in Kings Point and Montauk the same day, and that's absurd."
With the help of a grant from American Express, the group printed 75,000 copies of a pamphlet, "The Long Island Heritage Trail," which has 11 self-guiding tours. Another booklet listed special events.
Other groups cover the North Fork, the South Fork, Riverhead and Southold. The president of the Fire Island Lighthouse Preservation Society, Gayle E. Haines, said she was involved in helping to form a group for the South Shore that would include Nassau County and parts of Suffolk.
Miss Haines and Mike K. Eagan have started a business to show off another not-so-appreciated attraction, the 23 lighthouses surrounding the Island. Eighteen are accessible, and the new business, Long Island Lighthouse Safaris, includes tours that include historical explanations.
Mr. Davidson said his bureau was operating this year on a budget of $880,000 generated from a 0.75 percent tax on all hotel rooms on Long Island. This was the third summer the tax had been in effect in Suffolk, and the second in Nassau. Both County Legislatures have voted to extend the tax to the year 2000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWAIE (AMEX) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU TRANS WORLD RADIO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (96%); FLORIDA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (91%); TOURISM (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (72%); CITIES (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); WINERIES (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); 

PERSON: DAVIDSON, MICHAEL (LONG ISLAND CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU); AIN, STEWART MICHAEL DAVIDSON (91%); GEORGE AGORMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



453 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: What Bond Act Might Mean for L.I.

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
WHEN Long Islanders enter their polling booths on Nov. 5, supporters of a $1.75 billion environmental bond act hope that they look upward.
Only by looking at the top of the ballot, the supporters say, will voters see Proposal 1, the Clean Water and Clean Air Bond Act of 1996, an environmental initiative by Gov. George E. Pataki. 
 In 1990, a $2 billion environmental bond act proposed by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo failed, despite winning in Nassau and Suffolk. This year support from Long Island voters will be crucial for the bond to win statewide.
A coalition of environmental groups has been campaigning since the summer to build awareness of the plan. "People across the state are looking at this in a very positive way," said Sarah J. Meyland, executive director of the Citizens Campaign for the Environment.
But some people are worried about the sideshow setting of the proposal far above the names of President Clinton and Bob Dole and candidates in other races.
"People are going to have to look way to the top of the ballot, and that could be a problem," said Assemblyman Michael Balboni, Republican of Westbury.
The defeat of the bond act would be a stinging rebuke for Mr. Pataki.
A poll released last month by Quinnipiac College found that more than 65 percent of voters favored the bond referendum. The survey also showed, for the first time, that a majority of voters approved Mr. Pataki's policies.
Yet supporters said they were worried about voters who search ballots for measures to vote against. The supporters said such voters were more apt than others to notice and vote on Proposal 1, opposing it.
Opponents said voters should reject the bond act because it called for more borrowing by the debt-ridden state.
The $1.75 billion that would be raised by selling bonds would provide $200 million to help clean up Long Island Sound, the largest item for the region. The work would involve limiting nitrogen discharges from sewage plants, which a Federal, New York and Connecticut study identified as a major cause of water degradation.
An additional $30 million would be divided between the Peconic and South Shore estuaries for planning and cleanup. Part of $150 million for statewide land purchases would be available for the pine barrens and East End farmlands.
Long Island would also receive shares of $100 million for parks and historic preservation, $355 million in grants and loans to upgrade water supplies, $230 million for clean air that would include $125 million for work like replacing coal-fired boilers in schools and $50 million for recycling programs.
A $200 million allocation for so-called brownfields projects that would recycle abandoned industrial sites could also benefit Long Island.
The program director for the Citizens Campaign for the Environment, Jeffrey D. Fullmer, said approval of the act could mean the infusion of up to $2 billion in Federal matching funds.
"Some say bonding is expensive," Mr. Fullmer said. "But one point that's very important to make is that raising money through bonding is going to leverage Federal money."
Mr. Fullmer is also the chairman of the citizens' advisory council for the South Shore estuary program.
The Long Island Association has urged support for the bond issue. "Improving Long Island's environment ultimately benefits our economy," its president, Matthew T. Crosson, said in a press release. "Quality of life is one of the most, if not the most, important economic development factors on Long Island."
Supporters say the bond would assure long-term financing for environmental projects, averting the uncertainties of annual legislative votes.
Opponents said the bond, although well intentioned, would increase the staggering state debt. "New York already has significantly more debt than any other state," the majority leader of the Assembly, Michael J. Bragman, Democrat of Syracuse, wrote in a letter. "It is near or at the top in every other debt category."
Mr. Bragman said interest on the bond would total more than $1.3 billion over 40 years, putting the total cost at more than $3 billion. He suggested a pay-as-you-go approach in which the $100 million-a-year real-property-transfer tax would be dedicated to environmental projects.
Peter Quinn of the Long Island Progressive Coalition said borrowing for environmental projects was fiscally irresponsible for a state with a $36 billion debt. "This proposed bond is simply irresponsible leadership under the guise of environmentalism in order to boost the image of the Governor," said Mr. Quinn.
He suggested that cuts in the State Environmental Conservation Department showed that Mr. Pataki "speaks with a forked tongue on the environment." State spending of $300 million a year for six years would finance environmental projects without saddling taxpayers with $1 billion in interest costs, Mr. Quinn added.
The bond act is the lone state or county proposal on the Nassau ballot.
In Suffolk voters face a choice between two proposals to spend surplus money in a drinking water program that is financed by 0.25 percent of county sales taxes.
In a twist, the Long Island Pine Barrens Society and other groups that mounted a petition drive to place one of the three proposals, No. 3, on the ballot now support Proposal 2, which the County Legislature approved.
The counsel to the Legislature, Paul Sabatino, said the two proposals involved a $55 million surplus that the county expects when the water program ends on Nov. 30, 2000.
Mr. Sabatino said Proposal 2 would allocate $34.1 million to buy land in the pine barrens. About $17 million, would buy land in Babylon, Huntington, Islip, Shelter Island and Smithtown.
The remaining $3.9 million would be for security and maintenance in county parks.
The pine barrens, protected in a state forest preserve, are atop the largest supply of drinking water in the region. The pine barrens society and other groups strongly objected when the legislature voted in November to transfer $25 million from the water surplus to the county's general fund.
The groups gathered voters' signatures for a ballot proposal to prevent future "raids" on the surplus.
According to Mr. Sabatino, that proposal would not take effect until the last two years of the water program, meaning that no more than $29 million of the $55 million would be available for land purchases.
The executive director of the pine barrens society, Richard L. Amper Jr., said the groups agreed that Proposition 2 would provide more money to buy land. He added that the Legislature acted only after pressure from the groups. "The citizens forced the issue, and the legislators finally cleaned up their act," he said.
Voters who do not know the history of the two proposals may have trouble differentiating between them. Each calls for amending the County Charter.
In four of the five East End towns, residents will decide whether to finance town-level programs to preserve farmland and other open space. Proposals in Southampton and East Hampton, where residential development is surging, call for issuing $5 million in bonds. Proposals in Southold and Shelter Island call for $2 million and $600,000 in bonds, respectively.
In Riverhead the Town Board approved a $2 million bond issue for farms and open space. The action does not require voter approval, but is subject to a referendum if voters petition for one.
Residents in the five East End towns will also vote on whether they support the creation of Peconic County. A "yes" vote requests the State Legislature to permit a binding referendum on the question.
Sentiment for secession from Suffolk County, whose 1.3 million residents live predominantly in the Towns of Babylon, Brookhaven, Huntington, Islip and Smithtown, has been strong on the East End years.
Proponents say the county would give the 110,000 residents of the East End greater control over the farming and resort region that is half of Suffolk.
"It's not about home rule just for the sake of home rule, but to protect our quality of life out here, to keep our rural character and open spaces," said Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele Jr., Republican of Sag Harbor, a leader of the Peconic County movement.
He added that a feasibility study showed that the taxes in a new county would be half the current rate.
A question remains, he said, about whether the Suffolk Legislature would need to ask the State Legislature to approve a binding referendum. The answer could come from a court case in which Staten Island is contending that no home rule message for the New York City Council is needed for the State Legislature to schedule a binding referendum that would let Staten Island secede from the city.
"Obviously that case has great precedential value for us," said Mr. Thiele.
The Suffolk County Comptroller, Joseph R. Caputo, said a new county would cost East End residents more taxes, not less. "They are overlooking a lot of things like the costs of setting up a new government," Mr. Caputo said. "Unfortunately some elected officials are playing with the emotions of people out there, and it isn't quite fair."
"Joe Caputo is 100 percent wrong," Mr. Thiele said. "We have had western Suffolk politicians trying to break the spears of the East End before by saying this would be very expensive, and it just isn't true."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LICF (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND CITY FINANCIAL CORP (85%); LONG ISLAND FINANCIAL CORP (85%); LONG ISLAND COMMERCIAL CAPITAL CORP (85%); LONG ISLAND WATER CORP (85%); LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (85%); LONG ISLAND IMAGING SPECIALTIES INC (85%); LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (85%); LONG ISLAND BEEF CO (85%); LONG ISLAND TRANSMISSION CORP (85%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (91%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (91%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; REFERENDUMS VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BONDS (90%); MATCHING GIFTS (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BROWNFIELD SITES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); HISTORY (61%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



454 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: Environmental Bill: The Pros and Cons

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
THERE are those who extol it, those who support it with reservations and others who downright oppose it. But the bottom line is that voters will decide the merits of Gov. George E. Pataki's proposed $1.75 billion Clean Water-Clean Air Bond Act when they go to the polls on Nov. 5.
Mr. Pataki is calling it a fiscally sound measure aimed at addressing a host of environmental ills from the banks of the Hudson River to the shores of Long Island Sound. 
 "This is a campaign to vote yes for our future, to vote yes for our children, to vote yes for New York State leading the nation in environmental protection, quality of life and economic opportunities," the Governor said recently.
But critics of the bill, like members of Change-N.Y., the state's largest taxpayer organization, take an opposing view. They make a point of the $1.3 billion in interest charges that would be paid out over the life of the bond issue.
"There are far cheaper ways to invest in the environment," said Brian D. Backstrom, vice president of the group. "We advocate a pay-as-you-go approach."
So does State Assemblyman Michael J. Bragman, the majority leader from Cicero, who said New York already has more debt that any other state and its credit rating is tied with Louisiana's for lowest in the country. He has proposed instead that revenue set aside by the Governor for debt service payments be dedicated to the state's Environmental Protection Fund.
While Mr. Pataki has proposed using half of the Real Estate Transfer Tax for debt service, Mr. Bragman's proposal would dedicate all of it -- about $200 million a year -- to the fund for environmental remediation projects. Many, though, like Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat from Scarsdale, support the measure, albeit with some restraint. "It was orginally a bad bill," he said. "We had a big fight."
Mr. Brodsky is chairman of the Assembly's Environmental Committee and sponsored the measure in that house. He said he objected to the omission of money for Superfund cleanups, along with the additional debt the state was incurring.
"Programmatically, however, it's a good bill, even with the problems," Mr. Brodsky said. "When you sit down to make your decision, I say it's worth supporting."
There are five categories:
*The Clean Water Program, which calls for $790 million for municipal-treatment improvements, nonpoint-source-control projects, aquatic-habitat restoration and implementation of management plans for the Sound, Lake Champlain, Onondaga Lake, the Finger Lakes, the Great Lakes, Peconic Bay, the South Shore Estuary, New York Harbor and the Hudson River. (The program also includes $150 million for open-space acquisiton to protect water resources, $100 million for state and municipal parks, $50 million for waste water and flood control for communities with fewer than 75,000 residents, $30 million to retain and create jobs in communities with fewer than a million residents and $15 million for dam-safety projects.)
*The Safe Drinking Water Program, which allocates $265 million to start a revolving loan fund and $90 million in grants for municipalities to upgrade drinking-water systems so they meet safe-drinking-water standards and assure safe supplies.
*Solid Waste Initiatives, which provide $75 million for closing the Fresh Kills Landfil on Staten Island, the largest unlined landfill in the world; $50 million for projects at rural and Adirondack landfills and $50 million for capital investments in recycling centers.
*Municipal Environmental Restoration Projects, which call for $200 million in grants to municipalities to clean up so-called brownfields, which are abandoned sites, for re-use according to Superfund standards. (The program would provide municipalities not responsible for polluting a site with 75 percent of the cleanup costs. Municipalities that sell the property back to responsible parties would have to repay to the state all funds received for the cleanup, and that money would then be used to replenish the program account. The restoration program is expected to clean up and put hundreds of sites back on the tax rolls and provide jobs in urban areas.)
*Air Quality Projects, which would allot $230 million for state investments in clean technologies, including $75 million for low-emission buses and electric vehicles, $125 million to help schools switch from coal-fired furnaces and boilers to equipment using cleaner fuel and $30 million to help municipalities retain jobs at businesses that need to improve air emissions.
The Governor said, "With this bold and fiscally sound plan, we will attack the problems that threaten our water and foul our air in a way that helps local taxpayers, protects our schoolchildren and promotes economic growth."
In Westchester, the proposal would provide $200 million to implement the Long Island Sound Study's management plan, which calls for upgrading four sewage-treatment plants to reduce the amount of nitrogen entering the Sound. Nitrogen acts as a fertilizer for algae blooms, which eventually sink to the floor of the 1,300-square-mile estuary, decompose and consume oxygen -- harming fish and other creatures.
"Whether it is the Long Island Sound, the Hudson River or the Great Lakes, these water bodies are our life lines," said David J. Miller, executive director of the National Audubon Society of New York State. "The Governor's environmental proposal will create tens of thousands of jobs, clean up water quality and improve the quality of life for its residents. To us it's a no-brainer."
The proposal also includes $25 million for Hudson River estuaries. In general, the health of the river has improved in recent years, and many environmentalists view it as one of the greatest environmental comeback stories of the century. Much of its current health is attributable to a state bond act passed in the 1960's.
Robert F. Kennedy Jr., a lawyer for the Hudson Riverkeeper Fund, a private environmental group, said his organization sued New York City's 14 treatment plants in 1987 and won a suit requiring the city to install nitrogen-removal devices at the plants. The city was also ordered to remove flotables in the water and to control toxic matter.
"We identified the problem; we identified the solution," said Mr. Kennedy, who is also a professor at the Pace University Environmental Law Clinic. "The only thing that was missing was the money. This bond act provides that."
In other parts of the county, municipal leaders praised the proposal. Neil P. Hess, Village Manager of Hastings-on-Hudson, said passage would allow the village to foreclose on contaminated properties in cases where owners owed back taxes.
In Irvington, the Village Board of Trustees has unanimously approved the proposed bond act and has urged that New York voters follow suit. Stephen A. McCabe, the Village Administrator, said the proposal would allow his municipality and others to clean up old industrial areas, build parks and acquire open space.
Environmental organizations are also endorsing the bill, some with reservations. "It represents a deal struck in an early-morning negotiation," said Anne Rabe, executive director of Citizens' Environmental Coalition, which represents 9,000 people and 90 community environmental groups and civic organizations. "It doesn't address the problem of toxic waste dumps in New York or the ailing Superfund program, which is about to go bankrupt. The bond act should not be seen as the be-all and end-all in terms of dealing with the environment."
In Westchester alone there are nine hazardous-waste-disposal sites: the Caldor Shopping Center in Pelham Manor, the Harmon Railroad Yard in Croton-on-Hudson, the Dobbs Ferry Riverfront Park in Dobbs Ferry, Port Chester Harbor, Peekskill Plaza, Reiter Drum and Barrel Company in Yonkers, Gedney Way Landfill in White Plains, Electronics for Medicine in Pleasantville and Bedford Ponds in Bedford Hills.
Ms. Raver said that although the proposal has problems, her organization supports it.
"Our concern," she said, "is that the Governor has still not seen the light, because he is ignoring so many other environmental problems. So we support the proposal, but with reservations."
Business groups, however, have given it their full approval. "It's critical for the state's economy," said Robert B. Ward, director of research for the Business Council of New York State, a group representing 5,000 companies. "These projects can't be kept waiting."
Research organizations say about 50,000 jobs are created for every billion dollars invested through these types of bond issues.
While Mr. Pataki, a Republican, strongly supports the candidacy of Bob Dole for President, the Governor's political advisers have said they are counting on President Clinton's popularity in the state to draw a wave of Democratic -- that is, pro-bond act -- voters on Nov. 5.
Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Marist Institute of Public Opinion in Poughkeepsie, recently said he felt the bond act would appeal to a liberal constituency and that by seeking its passage in a year when Mr. Clinton is expected to do well, Mr. Pataki would benefit.

GRAPHIC: Photo: MacEachron Waterfront Park in Hastings-on-Hudson, a bright spot and the only public space on the village's riverfront. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHANGE-NY (ORGN)

ORGANIZATION: CHANGE-NY (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; WATER POLLUTION; REFERENDUMS; LAW AND LEGISLATION VOTERS & VOTING (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); LAKES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); SUPERFUND (77%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); BONDS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); LAND RECLAMATION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); REAL ESTATE (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); BOND ISSUES (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (69%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (69%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BRAGMAN, MICHAEL J (ASSEMBLYMAN); BRENNER, ELSA EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (73%); EDDIE GEORGE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



455 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1786 words

HEADLINE: County Attracts Interest for Using Managed Care

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
A YEAR ago, Westchester County embarked on a radically changed method to provide health care to its poor. In a prototype program that operated under a waiver from the Federal Government, the county became the first in the state to mandate that Medicaid recipients receive care through health maintenance organizations and prepaid service plans.
The county had two goals -- to save money and improve the health care of the poor. Managed care emphasizes preventive care, which proponents say will reduce high costs from acute medical interventions, eliminate the inappropriate and often excessive use of emergency rooms and decrease the number of hospital admissions. 
 Earlier this month, Gov. George E. Pataki signed legislation requiring the state's Medicaid population to use managed care -- a sea change in policy, which will put millions of dollars into private hands. As New York prepares to begin this huge transformation in the delivery of its health care services to the needy, many eyes are on Westchester's experience. Has the new system worked here? Has the health care of the poor improved? Has the county reaped the savings it expected?
The answers to those questions so far have proved to be elusive. Through managed care, Medicaid recipients have access to doctors who were once unavailable to them. While people who are privately insured balk at the limits that managed care puts on their choice of doctors, Medicaid recipients were already used to barriers. Although in the old system they were technically free to see the doctor of their choice, that freedom extended only to doctors willing to accept Medicaid rates that ran as low $7 a visit, meaning a limited selection.
While the availability of doctors has increased, health experts agree that it is premature to measure the long-term medical benefits of preventive care for the recipients in the program. The payoff on timely immunizations, pap smears and similar services may not be seen for many years. And with state and Federal pressure to move recipients off welfare rolls sooner, some health care providers say that such benefits based on continuity of care may be difficult to achieve, let alone to document.
"You cannot achieve meaningful long-term improvements in people's health when you have membership tied to a system that is continually churning," said Georgeann Chapin, executive director of Healthsource, one of the plans the county contracts with to provide services. "I can't take someone who is assigned to my plan, have their immunizations up to date, control their asthma, screen their families for T.B., and get their mental health needs met by June when they are dumped off the rolls. Positive health outcomes can only be achieved if there is long-term care."
As for saving money, the county has budget projections on cost savings, but the actual amount spent on Medicaid for the year will not be known until the budget is adopted, which will probably be in March of next year. The Department of Social Services anticipates that when they are available, the numbers will reflect a saving of $8 million. It estimates that the county will spend $58 million this year on managed care for welfare recipients, while a strict Medicaid program would have cost $66.5 million.
Though the data are not yet available, there has been sufficient experience among county officials, health care providers and advocates for the poor to evaluate informally how well the new program is working.
The consensus seems to be that although there have been some rough spots -- particularly in getting Medicaid recipients to choose from among the six plans the county offers -- the transition into managed care seems to have been fairly smooth.
Part of the success of the program can be attributed to the decision by the Department of Social Services to phase in enrollment. At the time of the mandate, the county already had a voluntary Medicaid managed-care program, which had 10,000 enrollees, so there was a degree of preparedness, as well as a structure in place.
The county does not have a shortage of primary-care doctors -- though some areas are better served than others -- so the Department of Social Services was able to make sure that the health plans with whom they contracted had sufficient capacity to serve its Medicaid population.
Over the last year, only the children of families on Home Relief and recipients of Aid to Families with Dependent Children -- roughly 32,000 people -- were mandated into managed care. Those Medicaid recipients are generally younger and healthier and less likely to tax the system.
Next June, the biggest users of the Medicaid system, those who receive Supplemental Security Income, will begin to be enrolled. This group, which includes the elderly and disabled, represents 28 percent of recipients but spends 78 percent of all Medicaid dollars.
The biggest difficulty the county has faced so far is in getting Medicaid recipients voluntarily to choose one of the six managed-care plans being offered. Under the current system, if a recipient does not choose a plan, one is automatically assigned. Department of Social Services officials say that about 27 percent of those involved has been assigned a plan. Advocates for the poor counter that the actual figure is closer to 42 percent, because the county included those voluntarily enrolled in the program as choosing a plan instead of solely using the group that was mandated into the program.
Linda Samuels, Deputy Commissioner of the Department of Social Services, said that trying to get responses from those receiving public assistance -- either by mail or phone -- was an arduous proposition.
"It is a tremendously difficult process," Ms. Samuels said. "No matter what you mail out, you don't get a response. If you call, you don't get a response."
The information on choosing a plan can be daunting. The requirements include a description of the six organizations and the services they offer, where they offer them and which doctors are available. To someone already overwhelmed by difficulty with housing, education, job searches and the like, the choice may simply be too much.
Earlier this month, Ms. Samuels spoke at a meeting of the Westchester Work Group on Medicaid Managed Care here, which is a committee of the Westchester Women's Agenda, a feminist group that works for women's issues. She said the department ran into the same difficulties when it tried to conduct a satisfaction survey to measure how the people receiving Medicaid liked managed care.
The results of the survey were very positive, she said, but was based on a relatively small sample of several hundred people. Of those who responded, 97 percent said they had received their health plan's orientation, and 86 percent rated that orientation excellent or good. Eighty-seven percent said they understood how to use the plan, and 97 percent said it was usually easy to make a doctor's appointment.
On the down side, 27 percent of recipients said they did not know what to do in an emergency. The county has not tracked whether emergency room use is down since the new program was installed. Calls to county emergency rooms revealed little change in use over the last year, except for a significant drop at St. John's Riverside Hospital in Yonkers, where emergency room visits dropped from 21,000 to 19,000 over a one-year period that ended last month. "We're seeing less of the common cold, the child who has a slight fever, and uses from the person who doesn't have a personal physician and was using the emergency room as a medical office," said Steve Lucas, a spokesman for the hospital. "We feel that the managed care guidelines have had an effect."
Ms. Samuels also expressed concern about the number of people in the survey who said they had not attended any health education programs and about the number who said they had not used family planning services.
Also speaking at the meeting was Deborah Bachrach, a lawyer who represents managed health maintenance organizations and who helped draft the new state legislation. Ms. Bachrach said that one of the biggest effects of the new law on Westchester would be a provision allowing H.M.O.'s to have a role in marketing their plans to Medicaid recipients. Under the county's current system, health care providers are prohibited from directly enrolling clients.
The reason for the prohibition was that the county wanted to prevent the kind of marketing abuses seen elsewhere in the country, Ms. Samuels said. In some cases, overzealous sales representatives were signing up clients to plans they did not understand and sometimes had too few providers where they lived. She said she feared the marketing representatives would harass people at home or at the county's Social Services office.
Representatives of the health plans, though, say that they are in a better position than anyone to explain their services. "We feel it's much more appropriate to enroll clients within our walls," said Lindsay Farrell, director of operations for the Open Door Family Health Center in Ossining. "We feel that the marketing representatives understand how our system works; they know our providers, they know if this particular pediatrician is good with asthmatic patients or if this family practitioner has an emphasis on education. That's far better than a worker just reading about us in a book."
The state law will also change the formula by which the county divides its automatic assignments, giving some preference to provider-sponsored plans, which are nonprofit.
Some health care advocates worry that shifting huge numbers of people into managed care will drive down reimbursement rates too quickly, putting those who have traditionally taken care of the indigent -- community health centers and hospitals -- at risk for survival. Such institutions are the only ones left that will be able to care for the growing ranks of the uninsured.
Ms. Chapin said, "The minute someone gets off home relief, they're not going to have anywhere to go if the community-organized clinics and hospitals aren't there. As rates fall, you're going to see everybody get squeezed very tightly."
She added that it was also unreasonable to look at managed health care as a panacea for solving the ills of the county's poor. "Managed care is not going to solve the social, economic, educational and housing problems of the poor anymore than Medicaid did," Ms. Chapin said. "People's lives are very complicated, and it's inappropriate to expect a health care organization to solve these problems. There's a lot of current hope for managed care -- and it's well meaning. But it's not realistic."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT (NYS) MEDICAID (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT (NYS) MEDICAID (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS; MEDICAID MEDICAID (92%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); ACUTE CARE (78%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUDGET FORECASTS (60%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%); 

PERSON: LOMBARDI, KATE STONE EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); EDDIE GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



456 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 17; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTICUT GUIDE

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:

ONE-MAN SHOW
The new exhibition at the Silvermine Guild Arts Center in New Canaan features a solo display of oils and watercolors by Charles Reid, artist, author and holder of bi-annual painting workshops. 
 In addition, a group exhibition of Guild members' drawings and sculptures is on view, plus solo shows of paintings by Kirill Doron and the sculpture and mixed media works of Lisa Daugherty.
All three shows will remain through Nov. 10. The guild is at 1037 Silvermine Road, and the galleries are open Tuesday through Saturday from 11 A.M. to 5 P.M., Sunday from 1 to 5 P.M. Admission is free but donations are welcome (203-966-5617).

DOGS' WEEKEND
Dog owners, lovers, walkers, prospective dog owners, wannabe breeders and trainers will find something of interest during the Ridgefield Library's "Going to the Dogs Weekend" next Saturday and Sunday.
Mary Ellen Duby, a breeder, will talk about buying a puppy on Saturday at 1:30 P.M., focusing on the character traits of various breeds.
Dog obedience will be the subject at 3 P.M. when Posey Armistead, a dog trainer, will discuss basic training techniques and methods of dealing with bad habits.
On Sunday at 1:30, Alexis Dorf, who raises guide dogs for blind people, will talk about how the dogs are trained and describe the characteristics of working dogs. The final session at 3 P.M. will be a talk by Mike McCarren on training his own dog for therapy work at nursing homes. The library address is 472 Main Street and the phone number for more information is 203-438-2282.

ETHICS, POLITICS, MONEY
A series of four free, public lectures on ethics, politics and economics will be delivered at Yale by Sissela Bok, a distinguished fellow at the Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies.
"Truthfulness and Deceit in Public Life" is the title of the first program scheduled for tomorrow at 4 P.M. at Luce Hall, 34 Hillhouse Avenue on the New Haven campus, followed by a public reception at 5:30.
The second talk (to be held on Oct. 28 in Room 102, Linsly-Chittenden Hall, 63 High Street) is entitled "Easeful Death: From Keats to Kevorkian." The third lecture, "Lifeboat Ethics: Human Rights, Population Growth and Scarce Resources," will be on Feb. 24, and "The Philosoper's Stone" will wind up the series on March 3.
Ms. Bok is chairwoman of the Pulitzer Prize board. She has taught philosophy at Brandeis University, and has written extensively on moral choices and human values. (More information: 203-432-0964).

WHIMSY AND MORE
Three artists will appear at the Big Horn Galleries in Fairfield today from 3 to 5 P.M., at an exhibition of their paintings and prints that will run through Nov. 10.
Charles Wysocki and Ed Parker paint sophisticated, whimsical primitives, creating genre scenes of American life. Bill Duffy has a more ethereal approach, painting nature in its infinite variety.
Originals in oil sell for up to $45,000, limited edition prints range from $150 to $3,000.
The gallery, at 1657 Post Road, is open Tuesday through Saturday from 10 A.M. to 5:30 P.M., Sunday from noon to 5. More information: 203-255-4613.

IDEAS FROM FARMERS . . .
The first Connecticut Food and Agriculture Exposition takes place today at the State Armory in Hartford from 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.
Organized by the state's Department of Agriculture, it will contain 120 exhibits, demonstrations and programs designed to showcase the diversity and technological advances in farming.
On hand to answer questions will be representatives from the Agricultural Experiment Station, the Extension Service, the Farm Bureau, and dozens of nurseries, greenhouses, florists and agricultural associations.
Cooking demonstrations will be performed by members of the Connecticut Chefs Association and several specialty food companies. Children's entertainment includes hands-on exhibits, animals and audience-participation performances on farming at 1 and 3 P.M.
Tickets at the door are $3, free for children under 12. The armory is at 360 Broad Street and parking is free.

. . . AND ARCHITECTS
The Connecticut chapter of the American Institute of Architects will hold its annual Architects Convention and Design Exposition on Thursday from 11 A.M. to 7 P.M. at the Hartford Civic Center. Those involved in the design or construction industry might find it a source of new ideas and contacts while ordinary householders or people planning a home may also leave with useful information.
Admission to the exposition and a 6 P.M. reception is free.
Seminars will be conducted by architects, engineers, building officials and contractors on masonry construction from 8:30 to 11:30 A.M.; on emerging architects from 1 to 2 P.M., and on pricing and fee development from 2:30 to 4:30 P.M. They cost $25, $10 and $25 respectively, or $50 for all three.
Tickets are available in advance or at the convention. The number to call for more information is 203-865-2195.

THE HOLOCAUST
A symposium entitled "Work in Progress: The Unfinished Study of the Holocaust" will take place this evening at 7:30 in the Greenwich Reform Synagogue, 257 Stanwich Road. Speaking are Daniel Jonah Goldhagen and Geoffrey Hartman.
Mr. Goldhagen, an associate professor of governnment and social studies at Harvard, is the author of "Hitler's Willing Executioners." Geoffrey Hartman, who has taught literature at Yale for 30 years, established a Judaic studies program and a Holocaust video project. His latest book is "The Longest Shadow: In the Aftermath of the Holocaust," a series of essays. More information: 203-629-0018. ELEANOR CHARLES

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sissela Bok: lecturing on ethics, politics and economics. (Koby-Antupit Studio); Among prints at Big Horn Galleries, Fairfield, is Charles Wysocki's "Fireside Companions."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: SILVERMINE GUILD ARTS CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SILVERMINE GUILD ARTS CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DOGS (95%); EXHIBITIONS (91%); PAINTING (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); PETS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); WRITERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ETHICS (86%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHILOSOPHY (77%); PET CARE SERVICES (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); BLINDNESS (65%); POPULATION GROWTH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



457 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 33; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Sunday October 20, 1996: TRAVEL;
Remembrance of Corn Pone Past

 BODY:
Lots of people dismiss small-town Southern festivals as hokum, but according to "Ghost Dancing on the Cracker Circuit," a forthcoming book from the University Press of Mississippi, these events also constitute serious "nativistic revitalization movements." The book's title is a nod to the poignant "ghost dance" phenomenon that gripped 19th-century American Indians, who danced to bring back the buffalo. In the modern analogue, vanished cultural symbols are similarly ritualized, usually by white Southern Smallvillians who hope, in part, to keep their towns alive by "selling" extinct traditions. Of course, neither hosts nor fans intellectualize matters this much -- they just like pigs and hillbillies -- but for you brainy folkways buffs, here are highlights from the 1996-97 season.

Swine Time
Thirty-one years ago, tiny Salley, S.C., found itself in a pinch: Christmas was coming and there was no money for decorations. Solution? Chitlin' Strut, a festival held right after Thanksgiving, honoring the dish made from minced hog intestines. Besides feeding 60,000 visitors with 10,000 pounds of guts, the event raises $25,000 for civic coffers. "The Strut is definitely the most important thing in town," says Peggy Yon, Salley's treasurer. "Without it, we'd probably fold."
 
Hillbilly Days
In Pikeville, Ky., best known as the site of the Hatfield-McCoy feud and in the heart of the cash-poor Appalachian coal country, Hillbilly Days occurs every April. Created about 20 years back, the event features rambunctious Shriners, dressed as mountain rednecks, who drive beat-up trucks decorated with toilet seats. "It's kind of like historical," says a spokeswoman. Don't laugh too hard, however. Hillbilly Days draws 150,000 people, pumping needed green into the local economy.
 
Scopes Trial Play and Festival
For decades, residents of Dayton, Tenn. -- home of the Scopes Trial -- tried to shake the monkey off their back. Now they're putting the critter to work. Every July, Bryan College stages a festival and a trial re-enactment called "Destiny in Dayton." One goal is to show that the college, a Christian school that was named for William Jennings Bryan, John Scopes's grumpy, Bible-beating antagonist, is still proud of their man. "We're not trying to do a hatchet job," says a college spokesman, "but this is not 'Inherit the Wind.' "

Tobacco Festival
In 1939 there were 2,900 tobacco farms in Bladen County, N.C. By 1980 there were only 340. That doesn't stop the small town of Clarkton from holding an annual October homage to the crop that built it. Only problem: These days, the festival's theme is politically loaded, and the tobacco companies want no part of it. Clarktonians keep pressing on, says Madeleine Clark, the town's unofficial historian, because "history is all we have left."
 
Mayberry Days
The apotheosis of post-modern ghost dancing could be this event, staged every fall by members of "The Andy Griffith Show" Rerun Watchers Club. For a weekend, members gather in Griffith's hometown of Mount Airy, N.C. There they pretend they are visiting Mayberry, the sitcom town that exists only in syndication. "It's like you'd like your family to be," says a recent visitor to Mayberry Days, putting it hauntingly. "It's not like your own family. Nobody's snide to you. Everybody's friendly. Or at least . . . they pretend to be."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY PRESS OF MISSISSIPPI (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS FESTIVALS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHRISTMAS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); THANKSGIVING (70%); TOBACCO FARMING (63%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN SCOPES (76%); ANDREW 'ANDY' GRIFFITH (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



458 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Pan Am Announces A Novel Fare Method

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT 

 BODY:
Pan Am World Airways plans to adopt an unusual fare structure when it ends its introductory fares on Nov. 24.
Unlike many airlines that offer a variety of fares for travelers who book 21 days or 7 days before a flight, Pan Am's fares for each flight will rise as its planes fill up. 
 For example, fares between New York's Kennedy Airport and Miami will start at $99 one way. After a certain number of seats are sold, the fares will rise to $110, then to $132 and finally to $165. First-class fares are $231 one way.
Between New York and Los Angeles, one-way fares will start at $253, then rise to $319 and top out at $385. First-class fares are $495.
The fares are nonrefundable, but Pan Am, unlike many other airlines, does not charge a fee to change a flight. The airline also offers refundable tickets at significantly higher prices.
The introductory fares, which are in effect until Nov. 24, are $99 one way between New York and Miami, and $198 for first class. Between New York and Los Angeles, one-way fares are $199 for economy and $398 for first class.
Pan Am, (800) 359-7262, is using wide-body Airbus A-300 aircraft and will serve meals on its flights. The airline intends to expand its route network to include other major cities. ADAM BRYANT

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PN (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (84%); AIRBUS SAS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (90%); AIRPORTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



459 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2446 words

HEADLINE: Never Enough Good Jobs To Go Around;
Testimony From the Weary On the Welfare Treadmill

BYLINE: By KIT R. ROANE 

 BODY:
THEY are the poor, the jobless, sometimes the lazy, often the diligent. Welfare has kept many of them alive and their families intact.
But the system that has been a poor man's bootstrap since Kennedy's time is in crisis. While it has kept a portion of America clothed, fed and away from crime since its inception more than three decades ago, it has also done little to push people back into the work force. 
 Unable to produce gainful employment and social acceptance for the poor, the welfare program has become a political pariah in an election year, based as much on the American myth of self-reliance as on the real need to educate people and train them for work. In New Jersey, as throughout the country, tough new welfare rules are challenging both its philosophy of help and those who depend on it to stay alive.
Governor Whitman outlined her plan to overhaul the state welfare program earlier this year. It would limit benefits to five years for both families and individuals. But unlike proposals in many other states, Mrs. Whitman promises to provide incentives to help welfare recipients move more quickly into the workplace by investment in child care, transportation and job training.
The Whitman proposal, which is similar to the new Federal program enacted in August, is being drafted for consideration by the Legislature, where approval is expected.
Many recipients in the state are already required to work or go to school for 20 hours a week to receive benefits. But teachers and trainers complain that with the new rules will also come cutbacks on the very programs intended to develop skills.
They say the changes will most likely lead more people to a trough with less to offer, particularly in the cities, where good jobs are already hard to come by and unemployment is epidemic.
Interviews with present and former welfare recipients in the state show a group that by and large does not know what to make of the changes.
Tying benefits to work, cutting Aid to Families With Dependent Children and enforcing an end to aid after five years: none of this will fix the system, say many of those interviewed, adding that some people would be sure to fail even if enough jobs were there to be filled.
Among their ranks are the people on society's margins: the homeless and unskilled housed by a government check, the unwed mother with a baby and no job skills, the man with a criminal record whose only experience is dealing drugs on the street, the abused wife clawing her way out of violence, and the families where welfare has come to seem the dividend of being a poor American.
 
THE BASICS
'It's All Backwards'
It is lunchtime at St. Paul's Community Development Corporation in Paterson, and dozens of welfare mothers have just been let out of class after hours of learning how to multiply and read. Some are legal immigrants desperate to improve their English so they can get a job and stay in the United States. Others are United States citizens who never learned the basics, their school careers cut short by a series of births and failed marriages.
They pass by a board used to teach English as a second language, their simple dream clearly laid out in one example: "I want to be a taxicab driver. They make a lot of money. I need a lot of money. I want to pass my test."
Some have been on welfare for nearly a decade, and few have ever been able to keep a job. They hope to gain what they have lacked for a lifetime in a few short months of cramming but say there is a pall cast by welfare reform.
"It's all backwards," said Donna Turner, who has spent the last eight years taking care of her four children on a welfare ration. "Right now at least they are letting us get training, but there are still no jobs. They should be making sure there are jobs out there for us. Instead we're basically educating ourselves for nothing, because we still can't get work once we're graduated.
"Even if we get a job, we can't hold on to them because of layoffs," she added. "It's just a merry-go-round, and people ain't getting nowhere."
At 37, and skilled only as a worker in a dry-cleaning shop, Mrs. Turner has plenty of company among those trying to get ahead but seeing little reward for their efforts. And these are the lucky ones, women with children who qualify for special training that the most unschooled and the single are often not offered.
"You can't get a job without experience and you have to get a job to get experience," said Xiomara Martinez, echoing a common refrain. A Dominican immigrant with three young children, she has spent five years on welfare. "There is no opportunity for us."
Frank Geier, a 30-year-old teacher at the school, calls this "the reality of the marketplace." Paterson, like many of New Jersey's urban centers, has lost its industry, the silk mills and other major factories having long since shut or moved away.
The poor have no transportation to get to jobs in the suburbs, and unions are tightening the market in the city. Meanwhile, teachers at St. Paul's are forced to train double the number of applicants with about half the welfare aid they received two years ago. Next year, they worry that the aid -- which now only barely covers teaching salaries but nothing else -- will be further cut.
"It's a bad situation," Mr. Geier said, "one that is being made worse by politicians who want to get up on front of their constituents and show they are cleaning the rolls but have no idea what the reality is in the streets."
To the question "Who, then, gets off welfare?" the answer seems, not surprisingly, to be "Those with a great deal of outside support and assistance." Strong family or church connections seem to play a part, while an inner resiliency and a lack of time on welfare all appear to give the agency's success stories the extra advantage they need.
Few of them credit the agency itself with much of a helping hand, saying it did little more than offer busy work, a warning to hurry up, and a check every month.

A WAY OUT
'I Did It All Myself'
Jacqueline Wright, 31, a mother of two in Orange, was placed in a hospital stamping mail when she asked her caseworker for training; two other recipients joined her putting files in a cabinet for four hours, five days a week.
Ms. Wright says she would still be there had she not gone one day with a friend taking a typing test at the Urban League. Not wanting to just sit around, she also took the test. Passing it gave her a spot in the organization's internship program, where after working well beyond the 20 hours prescribed by her welfare office, she was later hired as a secretary.
"I went into these programs voluntarily," she said. "Even though it's mandatory, no one at the welfare office called and told me it was time, and I only heard from my caseworker when I called her. I got this job because I treated it as a job, but I did it all by myself."
While Ms. Wright was dealing with joblessness, her fellow recipient, Lea Zayachek, 28, had a multitude of ills to combat while trying to get off the system in Bloomfield. Fleeing an abusive husband and with two young children, no child support, little work experience and no home, she was finally forced to declare bankruptcy to get welfare payments. Even then, caseworkers misplaced her file for three months, she said.
But after taking an eight-week computer training course financed by the agency's Family Development Program and existing on welfare for a year, she found a job as a receptionist at a fertilizer company after a friend there recommended her. It pays about $18,000 a year, much of that eaten up by rent, the rest by medical care, school supplies and clothes for her two children.
"Right now we're getting by," she said, sitting with the children in their new one-bedroom apartment as they prepared for Halloween. "But in a year, welfare won't help me with child care anymore, and I will have to come up with at least $150 a week to pay for that. And if I don't get child support, or a big raise, I don't know if I will make it."

SELF-ESTEEM
'I'm Getting Ahead'
For those who squeeze through the system into gainful employment, there is no better feeling. Former welfare recipients talk glowingly about what it's like to have somewhere to go when they get up in the morning, and the pride they have in being able to pay their own way.
They talk about having an appointment to get their hair done -- like normal people -- and how they finally see a line toward the future. Most are part time, struggling for security and worried about being laid off. But often for the first time, they feel they have some control over the outcome.
"I'm an adult and I'm getting ahead," said Lucille Walker, 41, of East Orange, a welfare recipient who recently got a job with New Jersey Transit in Elizabeth and is hoping someday to be full time. "I'm just beginning to understand that I can make a difference in my life, that there will be ups and downs but that I have control over what I do."
But the training programs are mainly geared toward women with children, and few have spots for men, particularly those -- part of a growing segment in society -- with criminal records for drug-related offenses. James E. Murphy, 32, of East Orange recalls that when he went into the welfare office after serving jail time on a robbery charge and a series of odd jobs dried up, "they just looked at me like another one for the state, told me to fill out the form and sit over there."
Mr. Murphy said he might still be sitting around waiting for his check and doing community service if his godmother had not seen a flier for a private program that helped people train for commercial drivers' licenses in Newark. He passed the course and now has a job driving for Goodwill Industries, but few other such training or internship programs are out there for men in his city.
Because of this, the feeling of making it that now energizes people like Ms. Walker and Mr. Murphy has escaped many of the haggard men who file nightly into the foyer of St. Paul's Episcopal Church, looking for a bed and a warm meal. On the wall, a sign reads, "Never let any mistake cause you to stop believing in yourself," but it's a hard mantra to follow.
Some of these men, blankets and toiletries in hand, are the working poor, seasonal laborers or those who eke out a living in jobs with no benefits and too little money to afford a rent. Others have revolved in and out of the welfare system for years, their work history cut short by layoffs or prison terms.
Jobs are what many want. But these are not forthcoming to the unskilled and under-educated. And while New Jersey's welfare system already pushes these men into unpaid labor, few feel they are learning the skills necessary to get a job that will keep them off the dole.
After a string of jobs from bookbinding to construction, Salvador Brito, 36, finally found himself without an option three months ago and applied for welfare. Before that, he had always found a way to get by on short jobs at minimum wage or below, jobs from which he was laid off just before he was eligible to collect unemployment, and then rehired.
With a seventh-grade education, he was hoping that welfare would help him get training while he received its benefits. So far, training has consisted of sweeping up streets and taking out garbage, he said.
"When I applied for welfare, I told them I wanted to go to school to improve myself and get a job I can count on," he said. "I've been to that office three times, and every time I requested some help getting skills. But my social worker just looked at me and told me to go to the city and sweep."
He works for the city three days a week. Every other day is spent looking for a job, sometimes filling out applications two and three times a month at restaurants, factories or laundries, and often lying about his skills in desperation. But his choices are few and ill-paying, offering up the same subsistence work he has lived since a teen-ager.
"When you got nothing but a sixth- or seventh-grade education it's tough," he said. "Guys that don't have skills can't get any of the jobs. Education is what we need."
Alex Bush, 40, sat nearby. He has sold cars and vacuum cleaners, been a construction worker, welder and machine operator. "I'm a jack of many trades, a master to none," he said with a laugh, adding that he had not stayed long enough in any one job to become an expert or advance.
Part of the problem was a term in prison. Convicted more than a decade ago for possessing drugs, he has twice violated his parole, he said, adding that a few days in jail always leaves him jobless once he's out.
While he is confident that something will turn up soon, he is not so certain about the future of many others in his position. For one thing, those who haven't been to prison haven't learned much of a trade, he said.
"With this workfare stuff, you don't learn anything, except for maybe how to clean your house or take out the garbage," he said. "When I was in prison, we could get training in everything from paralegal work to machine operating. But our here, they have you sweeping the streets.
"These guys in here got no skills and the welfare system isn't interested in giving them any. They just want them off welfare. But if they don't learn anything that gets them ahead, they'll be right back on it in a couple of years."
Some of his bunkmates have been coming to St. Paul's for years, whether they have had a job or not. Many are drug abusers, alcoholics or mentally unclear. Others have just got old, finding it harder and harder to fabricate a living in the marketplace of the unskilled. Some have slept in the shelter every day since it was opened yearround last September, and were frequent visitors before, when it took people in only for the coldest six months.
Fastino Rodriguez, a 51-year-old Puerto Rican, has been bedding there for nearly four years, except for short periods when he spent $50 a week for a nearby room in a rundown hotel. Before this year, he needed the shelter even though he had worked for two decades packing cakes for a bakery; now he was unemployed, and things had changed little.
Mr. Rodriguez can't drive, knows nothing about carpentry and has no other skills besides packing cakes. But he is confident that if he must find work, he will. "I can do anything," he said from bunk No. 6, one ear to a Mexican radio station. "I'm just very depressed right now and I don't know what kind of job I can get. I don't know why I'm here, so I pray, but if I must, I can work again. I just need somebody to give me a job."

GRAPHIC: Photos: STILL TRYING Donna Turner has spent eight years trying to get off welfare. "They should be making sure there are jobs out there."; "I'm an adult and I'm getting ahead," said Lucille Walker, who just got a job with N.J. Transit. (Photographs by Linda Rosier for The New York Times) (pg. 1); James E. Murphy of East Orange found a job driving a truck for Goodwill Industries, while Xiomara Martinez, top left, attended a class in English as a second language to help in her job search. "There is no opportunity for us," she said.; Lea Zayachek left an abusive marriage and survived bureaucratic delays before finding a job paying $18,000 a year. "Right now we're getting by," she said. (Photographs by Linda Rosier for The New York Times) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); APPROVALS (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); 

PERSON: ROANE, KIT R

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



460 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Manhattan Lodging;
If Room Prices Keep Rising, So May New Hotels

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
THE hospitality business in New York is booming," said Ambrose Cheung, a director of the Lai Sun Development Company of Hong Kong, which led a group that bought the luxury Four Seasons Hotel earlier this year. "For overseas investors, New York is the prime city of the East Coast of the United States."
And he expects the good times to continue. "The last two years have been very strong and we expect a 3 to 4 percent increase in occupancy rates and 4 to 5 percent increase in room rates over the next two years," Mr. Cheung said. 
 This is, indeed, a happy period for New York's hotel industry, which was laying off workers in the early part of the decade. With the pace of business increasing, which means more business travel, and with a weak dollar attracting hordes of foreign tourists, hotel occupancy rates are at the highest levels since the early 1980's and expected to go higher. The cost of a hotel room in the city is climbing as well, although it has not yet gotten high enough that developers are prepared to start new construction.
According to Coopers & Lybrand's hospitality consulting practice, 78.8 percent of the city's hotel rooms were occupied in the first six months of the year, compared with 74.8 percent in the first half of 1995. Since the fall is a heavy travel period, the occupancy rate is expected to go over 80 percent in the second half of the year. When hotels sell out or get close to it, managers gain the flexibility to raise room rates. And they have. Coopers & Lybrand reports that the average room rate in New York in the first half of the year was $157.96 a night, up 7.7 percent from $146.61 in the previous year.
"You have to look at this from a historical perspective," said Arthur Adler, director of Coopers & Lybrand's hospitality consulting practice in New York. "The industry bottomed out in 1991. It was overbuilt, overleveraged and there was a recession on. Occupancy rates fell below 70 percent and average room rates stagnated."
As a result of the slump, many owners lost control of their properties, which reverted to banks and other lenders after the owners defaulted on loans. Among those that wound up in the hands of lenders was Donald Trump's Plaza Hotel, taken over by a consortium of lenders, and the Hotel Macklowe, taken over by the then Chemical Bank.
"Hotel was a four-letter word for banks in the early 1990's," said Douglas P. Hercher, director of investment sales and finance for Jones Lang Wootton U.S.A. "Those properties went into workout in 1991 and 1992 and the last of them were not disposed of until last year."
"In the 1980's a lot of people built because of the availability of capital," Mr. Cheung said. "But the economics and finances did not work out." The Lai Sun group bought the Four Seasons, where the average daily room rate is $480, for about $200 million, or about half the approximately $400 million cost of building. Still, at about $500,000 a room, it was a record price for the acquisition of a New York hotel.
As a result, lenders remain skittish about backing new construction, but are increasingly willing to finance hotel purchases and the conversion of office buildings at least partly to hotel use. Donald J. Trump's conversion of the old Paramount Communications building facing Columbus Circle is to include hotel rooms as well as condominiums. And Bernard Goldberg's Gotham Hospitality Group is planning to convert an office building at 141 East 44th Street into a 162-room hotel to be called the Hotel Grand Central, in recognition of its proximity to the railroad station. At the northwest corner of 52d Street and Third Avenue, the 250,000 square feet in the tower section of the old Macmillan Building is expected to be converted to a hotel while the much larger lower floors will probably still be used for offices. "The lower floors are too deep and dark, but the tower, where the floors are about 12,000 square feet each, is more easily converted," said Ron Cohen, a broker with Edward S. Gordon, who was involved in the recent sale of the building. "There will probably be two entrances to the building, one for the hotel and one for the offices." The building was purchased by Stellar Management, which has not designated an operator for the hotel part of the project.
EVEN the little construction that is under way represents hedged bets, pairing hotel rooms with other uses. The Renaissance Plaza project in downtown Brooklyn, being developed by Joshua L. Muss, will combine a Marriott hotel with office space, and the Embassy Suites Hotel to be built in Battery Park City will combine a hotel and 10-screen movie theater. Industry executives say other conversions are under active study, with an office-building-to-hotel project likely in the Downtown area and a limited-service hotel possible on 46th Street in the Times Square area. Because they use existing buildings, conversions are less costly than all-new construction.
The vacancy rates demonstrate that the demand for rooms exists and industry analysts say the market could easily absorb more rooms. "There are approximately 60,000 hotel rooms in New York," said John A. Fox, senior vice president of PKF Consulting, which specializes in the hotel industry. "You can make an argument that the market could absorb 5,000 to 10,000 more, but you cannot finance new construction."
But with room rates rising, it may just be a matter of time before new hotels are built. "We are projecting an average room rate of $169 for calendar 1996, which is getting pretty close," Mr. Fox said. "We are probably just a few years away from justifying new construction in Midtown."
Time is very much on the mind of the executives directing the biggest announced hotel project in the city, the Tishman Realty and Construction Company's E Walk project on Eighth Avenue between 42d and 43d Streets. The project includes a 200,000-square-foot entertainment and retail complex along 42d Street and an 860-room, 45-story, 650,000-square-foot hotel that will be entered from 43d Street.
"We will start demolition for the retail part of the project soon, but the timing of the hotel depends on the state of the transformation of Midtown West and the state of financial markets," said Thomas Arasi, president of the Tishman Hotel Group.
He said that as new projects like Madame Tussaud's wax museum, the Disney Store and the refurbished New Amsterdam Theater replace the dingy buildings that sell pornographic tapes and movies, the bright, friendly neighborhood "will eliminate the landscape as an item in due diligence." And he said the lukewarm willingness of lenders to finance new construction "will go to hot and red-hot over the next 12 to 24 months."
"We think we can build a better hotel for ourselves and the city if we wait 12 to 18 months," before beginning to build, Mr. Arasi said. "We think by then the market will support a hotel that is a little fancier, with higher room rates, than we could now." In all, the E Walk project, whose name is meant to suggest entertainment and a collection of restaurants and shops, is expected to cost $300 million and will be built entirely by Tishman.
HOTEL industry analysts say the current conversion and mixed-use hotel projects are a precursor to new construction. "Conversion is the first step," said Angelo Stambules, vice president for the hospitality services group of Landauer Associates. "It minimizes the cost of construction because you have the existing skeleton of a building to work with."
"There is plenty of money available now for acquisitions, renovation and conversions," said Daniel H. Lesser, director of the hospitality group at Cushman & Wakefield. "This is going to cause values to rise and approach replacement-cost levels."
He said foreign investors, like Mr. Cheung's group, were an important factor in the market. "We are seeing tremendous interest from overseas investors, who want to buy hotels in New York," Mr. Lesser said. "You cannot be a worldwide hotel company unless you have representation in London, Tokyo and New York."
Recent sales indicate prices are beginning to approach replacement costs, industry participants say. "The Vista sold for $140 million, which is $200,000 a room," said Mr. Hercher of Jones Lang Wootton. "Replacement cost is probably $240,000 to $250,000 a room, so we are getting there."
He said the reluctance of lenders to go first might delay the start of hotel projects in New York, but once the ice is broken, a rash of projects may follow. "It will take someone with courage to do the first one," he said. "The numbers almost work today and they are getting better. There is just a psychological hurdle to overcome."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rendering of E Walk hotel-entertainment-hotel complex planned for Eighth Avenue. (Tishman Urban Development Corporation); Ambrose Cheung (above) in his Hong Kong company's Four Seasons hotel lobby. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times); Tower of Macmillan building at 52d Street and Third is expected to become a hotel. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 0488 (HKSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FOUR SEASONS HOTEL (NYC); LAI SUN DEVELOPMENT CO; TISHMAN REALTY AND CONSTRUCTION CO LAI SUN DEVELOPMENT CO LTD (92%); CHEMICAL BANK (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOUR SEASONS HOTEL (NYC); LAI SUN DEVELOPMENT CO; TISHMAN REALTY AND CONSTRUCTION CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; INDUSTRY PROFILES HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); LODGING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); SALES MANAGEMENT (74%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); US DOLLAR (68%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN; CHEUNG, AMBROSE DONALD TRUMP (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



461 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Adult Communities Are Spreading Across the State

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
HAVING rebounded from its recessionary slump, the market for active adult communities in the state is edging forward, stoking developer interest in starting new projects.
Such communities cater to people 55 and over in their pre-retirement or retirement years. They offer recreation, socializing and someone else to do the outside maintenance. 
 The interest is coming from long-term players like the Kokes Organization, of Manchester; U.S. Home, based in Dallas with offices in Freehold, and H. Hovnanian Industries, of Tinton Falls. They continue to build, and are being joined by newcomers that want to increase their market presence, like K. Hovnanian Enterprises of Red Bank, the state's largest developer. Other new arrivals include Calton Homes and SGS Communities Inc., both of Manalapan, and the Mignatti Companies, of Huntingdon Valley, Pa. Toll Brothers, also in Huntingdon Valley, said it also would enter the field.
There are about 100 active adult communities in the state, with 80,000 units, according to state and industry sources. Some 12,000 more units are approved, under way or planned.
Many of the new homes are planned for Ocean County, long a locus of such housing, and for nearby Monmouth County. But they are creeping into other parts of the state like Mercer and Burlington Counties and to a lesser degree into Morris and Somerset Counties, industry experts said. They are also going up near employment centers, underscoring the trend that many buyers still work.
The activity is being fueled by several factors. One is the improvement in the state's overall housing market, enabling buyers over 55 to sell their homes to buy the new ones. In the last three years, sales prices for adult housing have risen 3 to 7 percent, said James Robbins, president of RAD Consultants, a real estate consulting concern in Fairfield. Most units are selling for $160,000 to $175,000, he said.
Another factor is the trend of such buyers to stay near their families rather than relocate to retirement areas in the South and Southwest.
That, Mr. Robbins said, is also pushing development to areas where adult housing is not now available.
The shape of new communities is also changing, with many smaller than the giant developments of the past, said William Becker, a Teaneck housing consultant who specializes in retirement communities. The size is being dictated both by what developers say is a demand for more intimate communities with modest recreational amenities to keep monthly fees down and by the state's shrinking supply of huge sites.
Yet the houses are getting bigger. The average house is 1,700 square feet, with some over 2,000 square feet, compared with 1,100 square feet a decade ago, Mr. Robbins said. Most are single-family detached homes.
DEVELOPERS also say many municipal officials welcome adult housing. Among the reasons are that it offers people 55 and over an alternative to maintaining their old one-family homes and a way to keep them from moving away.
Such communities also add to the tax base but do not overburden local services like schools.
The main force, however, is demographics. State data show the number of people 55 to 74 will rise modestly through the end of the century and then build through 2010, when 19.3 percent of the state's 8.5 million residents will be in that group.
After that it is expected to rise further as baby boomers enter the retirement housing market, said James W. Hughes, Dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University in New Brunswick.
Still, developers and analysts say there is a sizable wave of people to support new communities. Though they say state regulations and the cost of building such communities, which require more initial capital for amenities like clubhouses, will temper the activity, there are concerns of overbuilding.
"Developers are following the same snake dance," Dr. Hughes said. "It will work for a while, but the person at the end of the line may well lose out."
Among the largest projects is Renaissance, which Calton Homes, a subsidiary of Calton Inc., is developing as its first project. Renaissance will have 2,000 units around an 18-hole golf course on Route 571 in Manchester Township in Ocean County.
"This is a carefully planned reaction to a market that is growing, not shrinking," said Rick Griffith, senior vice president of the company's adult housing operation. It will be built in phases over 14 years. He said the existing supply had been absorbed "and there is good demand for a large development" offering a variety of housing and amenities.
The first 307-unit phase will comprise single-family detached homes with 1,500 to 2,200 square feet and one- or two-car garages, priced from the $140,000's to $220,000's. Amenities include a 25,000-square-foot clubhouse, tennis courts and a health spa. The monthly maintenance fee is expected to be $95. Sales open later this year. At the same time a few miles away on School House Road, the Kokes Organization will start sales on its new community of 250 homes. And early next year it will open a project near Route 70 in Toms River, a hub for such housing. It will have 1,100 detached and attached homes edging a golf course. Homes at both will range from 1,308 to 2,277 square feet and be priced at $115,000 to $250,000.
Aware of the competition, some developers are moving south in the county to Barnegat. There, the Mignatti Companies is building its first New Jersey project. Stephen McKenna, its president, said the reason was simple: "The demographics are right, and we saw Barnegat as an alternative to Toms River."
The project, Heritage Bay, near Routes 9 and 72, will have 293 detached homes, each with 1,200 to 1,800 square feet of space and one- or two-car garages. Prices are $104,900 to $136,000.
THERE will be a 4,000-square-foot clubhouse with billiards and card rooms as well as an outdoor pool. But more costly amenities like a golf course and tennis courts have been omitted to keep monthly maintenance charges low, said Mr. McKenna, who put such charges at $40.
"We are hitting a niche in the market," he said, adding that 60 homes had been sold since sales opened in June.
Developers are also moving to what they say are untapped markets in other counties.
One is K. Hovnanian Enterprises, which returned to the adult housing market in 1994 after a decade's absence with the opening of a 1,500-unit project in Lakewood in Ocean County. With half of the one-family detached homes at that project sold, Hovnanian is moving ahead with five more projects totaling 3,500 units. All will be outside Ocean County, and some will be smaller, with fewer recreational amenities.
"We continue to follow the baby boomers," said Ara Hovnanian, the company's president. "Now we are expanding our product line in, and focus on, adult housing."
A case in point is its latest project, Four Seasons at Wall, with 400 homes and a 12,000-square-foot clubhouse in Wall Township in Monmouth County. During the first weekend of sales last month, contracts were signed on 100 of the 1,618-to-2,318-square-foot homes. Prices are $192,950 to $226,950.
And SGS Communities is entering the market with two projects. One, with 528 homes and a 15,000-square-foot clubhouse, is in West Windsor in Mercer County; the other, with 115 homes and a smaller clubhouse, is in Holmdel in Monmouth County.
Explaining the company's strategy, Fred B. Rothman, its president, said, "We saw an opportunity and need for more adult housing and are taking it into new areas." Earlier this month, the company also merged with D.R. Horton, a large builder in Dallas, which "gives us the security of a capital base to properly develop adult housing," Mr. Rothman said.
Prices for the 1,500-to-2,250-square-foot homes will range from the mid-$150,000's to the low $200,000's. Construction on each project will start this spring, Mr. Rothman said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: One of four models at projected 293-unit Heritage Bay in Barnegat (left). A model at planned 400-unit Four Seasons at Wall in Wall Township. (Mignatti Companies, left; K. Hovnanian)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (72%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (72%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES; AGED REAL ESTATE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); TRENDS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); FAMILY (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE JAMES ROBBINS (70%); JAMES W HUGHES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



462 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Never Enough Good Jobs To Go Around;
Go From Welfare to Work? Somebody Has to Be Hiring

BYLINE: By BARBARA STEWART 

 BODY:
WE don't want to spend all our time and energy answering questions about whether there will be enough jobs," said Eileen McGinnis, chief of Governor Whitman's Office of Policy and Planning. "We want to spend our time making the program a success."
But jobs -- that is, enough jobs with enough employers willing to hire welfare recipients -- are the key to the success of the state's ambitious welfare overhaul. The state is planning to move most of its 125,000 welfare recipients entirely off the dole within five years. The only exceptions will be people who are too mentally or physically disabled to work, and the number of people in these categories is not expected to exceed 20 percent of all people now on welfare. 
 Obviously, getting people working requires job openings -- and these must be entry-level jobs with employers willing to hire inexperienced workers.
"We're expecting enough jobs," said Kathy Krepcio, director of policy and planning for the State Department of Health and Human Services . She cited State Department of Labor reports predicting 65,000 new low-skilled jobs over the next 10 years. (The newest figures have lowered that prediction to 45,430 low-skilled jobs.) Also, she said,30,000 jobs are expected to be created at six new Atlantic City casinos, and ripples from those jobs could generate 10,000 more positions in the area.
But local economists and social-service workers are less confident.
"Will there be enough jobs?" asked Don Linky, president of the New Jersey Public Affairs Institute, a nonprofit economics research center. "The answer is no, on the basis of the job-creation performance of state over the past few years." Anne Miller Christensen, a caseworker at St. Joseph's Home for homeless families in Jersey City, said: "The jobs they're imagining aren't there. The jobs that are there don't begin to generate the income necessary to pay rent, child care, medical and put food on the table."
A report by Mercer Street Friends, a Quaker-founded social services agency in Trenton, details New Jersey's unemployment picture, making it clear that things would have to change markedly to absorb tens of thousands of new, unskilled workers with little education. At present there are three people for every job opening in the state. And the jobs are frequently many miles from the people who need them -- people who are often too poor to afford a car.
In a few counties, especially relatively affluent ones, like Somerset and Hunterdon, the number of people hunting for jobs is about equal to the number of jobs available.
But unemployment, not surprisingly, is highest in the counties of New Jersey's economically troubled cities, where the bulk of welfare recipients live: Essex, Passaic, Camden and Hudson. Essex County, for instance, has more than 6 people for each job opening. In Hudson and Passaic Counties, more than 5 people are vying for each open slot.
And these are jobs available at all levels, including ones demanding college or graduate degrees. The recent heavy job loss in corporate downsizing mean that skilled and managerial workers are often willing to take lower-level work
"New Jersey is lagging behind the nation in overall job creation," Mr. Linky said. "Job growth is strongest in suburban corridors. Most people coming off the welfare rolls are living in cities. There are gaps between where jobs are being created and where people are living, and there are gaps between education levels required by jobs and education levels of people on welfare."
The state's plan is to address the latter gap with pointed job-training, its philosophy being, as Commissioner William Waldman of the Department of Human Services said, "The best training for a job is a job."
That means no general schooling except for teen-agers who haven't graduated from high school. Instead, the state will emphasize basic workplace job skills, like promptness, phone manners and getting along with bosses and co-workers. For the least able, there will be workfare. The state will also pay employers to give welfare recipients six months of on-the-job training, a program Joan Verplanck, president of the New Jersey Chamber of Commerce, called "a great return on the investment."
And to address the former gap, the miles between jobs and those who need them, there are planned innovations in transportation. The state is trying to persuade New Jersey Transit to add more buses on new routes from cities to suburbs. There is talk of hiring a transportation broker -- a kind of managed care for the roads -- to coordinate car pools and send vans back and forth.
Still, what happens to welfare recipients who, after five years of trying, still don't have jobs that pay enough to support their children? The state's old and obscure but still valid Poor Law says they may turn to their municipality, which is obligated to help them, supplying emergency food, shelter, and clothing. But it's unlikely many mayors will be prepared to step in.
Mr. Waldman, however, has another solution if in five years it's needed: change the law. "I really think the jobs will be there," he said, "and with the right mix of job training and workplace training we can hook people up with them. But the people of this state are moderate."
If welfare reform doesn't work, he said, "they'll change it."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Where the Work Will Be" shows the projected job growth in New Jersey, 1994-2005. (Source: Mercer Street Friends) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); STATE DEPARTMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); HOMELESSNESS (62%); DISABLED PERSONS (54%); 

PERSON: STEWART, BARBARA DON LINKY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



463 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
The Whitman Approach To Welfare Reform

BYLINE: By Jennifer Preston; Jennifer Preston is Trenton bureau chief of The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Governor Whitman has joined with other Republicans to warn voters that President Clinton, if re-elected, would weaken the new Federal welfare law. But Mrs. Whitman herself proposes softening some of the new law's harshest provisions as part of her plan to overhaul New Jersey's welfare program.
In comparison with her fellow Republican governors in New York, Connecticut and Pennsylvania, Mrs. Whitman's approach toward moving welfare recipients more quickly into the workplace is decidedly more compassionate, as well as pragmatic. It takes into consideration some of the obstacles that the poor face finding jobs, and seeks to remove them. 
 While emphasizing "personal responsibility," Mrs. Whitman promises to give welfare recipients some of the tools they need to break their cycle of dependency, such as access to affordable child care and help with transportation, along with job placement and job training programs. She also says that health care benefits would be made available through Medicaid up to two years after a welfare recipient finds a steady job.
In many ways, Governor Whitman's plan is strikingly similar to the new Federal welfare law. When she first outlined her ideas for changing the state's approach toward welfare earlier this year, she also proposed a five-year time limit on cash benefits. And like the Federal law, she wanted unmarried teen-age mothers to stay in school and live with their parents or under adult supervision and she wanted parents to cooperate with child-support enforcement efforts.
Yet, Mrs. Whitman proposes to use state dollars to continue providing cash benefits to noncitizens in families eligible for Aid to Families with Dependent Children under the old program, even though the new Federal law will no longer make Federal dollars available for public assistance to legal immigrants. Mrs. Whitman is also looking to continue Medicaid coverage for elderly legal immigrants now in nursing homes, and extending food stamp benefits to legal immigrants as long as possible this fiscal year.
She also offers two loopholes to the poor that are not contained in the new Federal law. If a woman with a child under 6 does not have child care, and therefore cannot work, the Federal law protects herfrom losing benefits, but the clock on the woman's five-year time limit continues to tick. Mrs. Whitman proposes stopping the clock until adequate child care is found.
In addition, Mrs. Whitman has included another provision for working parents who abruptly lose their job through no fault of their own, such as a layoff. After unemployment benefits expired, they would be able to receive public assistance for up to 12 months, without its being counting toward their five-year limit. Those who have already surpassed the five-year time limit would be eligible for benefits up to 12 months. Both the Federal and state plans provide hardship exemptions from the time limit for up to 20 percent of the welfare case load.
Mrs. Whitman, who submitted an abbreviated version of her plan to the Federal Government last week so the state could begin qualifying for Federal funds, said that all of her ideas would be outlined in state legislation that she expects to be completed and introduced next week.
There is strong support among Republicans in the Republican-controlled Legislature for Mrs. Whitman's proposal. And since President Clinton signed the Federal welfare bill into law, it is doubtful that Democrats will make too much of a fuss, particularly since Mrs. Whitman's proposal contains many of the same changes that leading Democrats have suggested the President consider after the election.
"We have been reaching out to both sides of the aisle," Mrs. Whitman said last week. "We want to make this is a program that is going to work for New Jersey and for people who need the support."
But the biggest test for Governor Whitman and for the Legislature is not legislative approval of a new state welfare program. It will be making sure that enough dollars are available to cover the enormous cost of providing the tools that will help welfare recipients find the jobs to support their families.
Take the issue of transportation, as an example. If you are poor and live in Camden, or even rural Salem County, you are unlikely to find a job down the block. Economists warn that there are not enough jobs. But most of the jobs that are available are outside the areas where there is the biggest need. Getting to work anywhere within New Jersey is almost impossible without a car.
The Governor acknowledges the problem and she said state human service officials were working closely with state transportation officials to find solutions. Although the state will initially receive about $40 million from the new Federal block grant this year, providing transportation assistance, affordable child care, job placement and job training programs are expensive.
Tackling welfare is a huge task, but so far New Jersey looks as if it is taking the best possible approach under the circumstances. New Jerseyans, while fiscal conservatives, are also known for their moderate stance on social issues. The Governor's plan mixes compassion with good politics.
But again, it will not be clear until after Governor Whitman presents her fourth state budget in January how strong her commitment is to changing welfare, as we know it, in New Jersey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICAID (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILD CARE (88%); ELECTIONS (79%); CHILDREN (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); FOOD STAMPS (73%); NURSING HOMES (73%); PARENTS (70%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (68%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (68%); AGING (62%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



464 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 8; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2340 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGN '96;
Talking About New Jersey With the Candidates for the Senate

 BODY:

New Jersey, A State of Mind
 
TORRICELLI
 
Q. Talk about New Jersey. You've represented a slice of the state for quite a few terms, and now you want to represent the entire state in the Senate. How does New Jersey as a whole differ from the Ninth District?
 
A. You know, there have really been two halves to my service in the Congress. I was born and lived all my life in small suburban communities in Bergen County. I am a product of the postwar suburban environment. And from the issues of quality education to controlling taxes, I represented the views of those constituents for a long time. 
 But my district changed in 1990, which was good for me and my education [and] very important for my service in the United States Senate. . . . I learned a lot. People asked about why did I vote for the Clinton deficit reduction plan. You know, 20,000 families in my district, the vast majority of them living in Jersey City, had their taxes cut under the deficit reduction plan. We had 20,000 families getting their income tax credit; the Clinton plan reduced their taxes by $2,200. . . .
When Jersey City came into my district, the home heating assistance for low-income families was being eliminated under the Clinton budget . . . 25,000 families who every winter get help meeting their utility bills so that they can maintain their mortgage payments and not lose their homes.
I've learned a lot about different sides of life in New Jersey in the last five years. That is why as United States Senator some of my highest priorities are keeping the light rail systems going into Hudson County and mass-transit improvements in Newark and Elizabeth, because those systems are vital to economic revitalization and attracting jobs. . . .
We're going to do more to improve the infrastructure in the next five years, if we can keep the appropriations approved in the Federal Government, than we've done in a generation. This is very exciting. This light rail system in Hudson County for Jersey City is an economic revitalization. And it will extend into Newark [and] Elizabeth, with our rail link. We can make a real difference here. . . .
I know how people are skeptical of New Jersey's cities. . . . I walked with Sharpe James through Newark last weekend. Fifteen thousand new town houses through tax credits. Giving corporations tax credits, and private companies are building new attractive town houses in which people take real pride and they own their own homes.
You know, 15,000 housing units is not going to change urban America. But it is the old story of "better to light a single candle than curse the darkness." Gingrich's Congress voted to repeal the tax credits. . . . Mr. Zimmer voted against the light rail system in Hudson County and the Newark-Elizabeth rail link and airport extension. . . . He voted against our own appropriation for the most important mass transportation improvements in a generation.

ZIMMER
 
Q. You've represented one district, and now you're seeking a statewide office. What have you learned about the state as you make that transition?
 
A. It's bigger than I thought it was. It's been a remarkably diverse state, and I've met people from all sorts of economic and ethnic backgrounds, had the opportunity to meet people I never would have been able to meet if I weren't running for this office.
So the diversity of the state has been something that I knew about intellectually but I really hadn't experienced personally, and it's a remarkable, remarkable place. To be able to speak in a Hindu temple before 5,000 Indian Americans or to be able to meet with Coptic Egyptians, to be able to talk to some folks in areas that are even more rural than my own . . . it's been a personally enriching experience for me.
And I've been able to meet with people like Monsignor Linder [founder of the New Community Corporation in Newark] and see in some depth the kinds of things they've been able to do in the City of Newark. What I've read about but never been able to actually see for myself. Go behind the scenes at the casinos in Atlantic City and look through the one-way mirrors or two-way mirrors and see how they actually operate. I've really come to understand the state a lot better and appreciate its people and its diversity and its economy and in its population.
 
Q. What do you think New Jerseyans want from their senator?
 
A. I think they want a senator who will make government less, more affordable and less intrusive. Who will address their needs but will reduce the burdens that government imposes on them. I think they're looking for somebody like Christie Whitman, who is a sensible fiscal conservative who is pro-choice and pro-environment. . . .
 
Q. Could you assess Senator Bradley's term? Would you be like him in some ways and different in others?
 
A. Yeah, I hope so. One of my constituents said that Bill Bradley plays politics the way that he played basketball -- he may not be fast on his feet, but he's a straight shooter. And that's, I think, a good compliment. He's honest. He's high-minded. He has the courage to talk about issues that other people may not want to talk about.
I would differ with him on his proposed solutions . . . because I think that they're generally standard liberal solutions that have not proved very effective in the past. But I think that he has won the trust of his constituents the way I believe I won the trust of my constituents in the 12th District. And that's an important starting point. . . .
 
Q. In the latter part of his term, he began talking a great deal about diversity and the need for people to live together more harmoniously. Is there something that you and Mr. Torricelli need to be talking about, as far as New Jersey is concerned?
 
A. Well, I've been asked by reporters why I've been spending so much time campaigning in the cities and amongst minorities who historically haven't voted for Republicans. And the reason I'm doing so is not because I think there's a very good chance that I'll get a lot of votes out of these areas and from these groups, but rather because it's the right thing to do. We are a single state, and we will not move forward if any geographic or ethnic element is allowed to be left behind.
So as somebody whose family came from the cities of New Jersey and who grew up in the shadow of Newark, I believe that our cities have got to be once again the places that they used to be, which is the launching pad for people's aspirations and potential. And I think we have an obligation as a society to make sure that any progress we have as a country is progress for everyone. And this is going to be a greater and greater challenge as we enter the global economy.

Schools, and How To Pay for Them

TORRICELLI
 
Q. Senator Bradley was nearly defeated six years ago, partly because he avoided the question of Governor Florio's tax increase. What are your views on that tax and on Governor Whitman's tax cuts?
 
A. I campaigned on [Mr. Florio's] behalf because I thought he should be re-elected Governor. There's a little revisionist history here. You know, I supported Jim Florio, but I did not support his tax increases in 1990. In fact, the two state legislators from Bergen County who voted against the Florio increase, didn't they say that they sought my counsel at the time and I urged them not to vote for it? And I did that because I thought Bergen County, the suburban communities, were disproportionately paying the tax -- defending a local interest.
[As for] Mrs. Whitman, I supported the income tax cuts. My concerns were and continue to be the impact on real estate taxes. My real estate taxes in Englewood have continued to climb, and I'm very concerned that the state is only engaged in a tax shift off income taxes and onto property taxes, which hurt senior citizens and people on fixed incomes disproportionately. But income taxes in New Jersey are too high, and I did support the lowering of them.
My other criticism of her program was this issue of suburban schools. I think she's simply putting a ceiling on the quality of suburban schools, which is not the answer to dealing with the question of urban education. . . .
 
Q. So what do you think of Governor Whitman's proposed school finance plan?
 
A. Well, I have a disproportionately Bergen County view of this, as you might imagine, having lived there all my life. . . . I think the goal is to raise the floor to insure that every child is reaching some minimally accepted standard of education. Somehow that has been reinterpreted to put a ceiling on the quality of education that school districts want to meet in some of our suburban areas.
The government should never be in the role of telling parents or teachers in a suburban school district that they can't do something extra to improve that quality of education. So the common denominator is being lowered rather than simply lifting those who are not getting the quality of education.
 
Q. So how do you propose that the State of New Jersey deal with this very difficult problem?
 
A. They're solving a problem that I don't concede to be a problem. The problem is insuring that every student is able to reach a minimally acceptable level of education. That standard should be high, and it should continue to rise. We should do this by equalizing or insuring that there is sufficient spending in each of these districts and then seize the districts where they're not properly administered and test them to high standards. That's the problem.
The more serious national problem is that people who live in these other suburban school districts believe their children are getting a good enough education because they're being compared to schools that are not performing. The comparison is not whether the schools in Ridgewood or Cherry Hill or Morristown compare favorably with the schools of Jersey City or Newark. The comparison is whether they compare favorably with the schools in Paris, Milan and Tokyo. And they are not.
 
Q. On what basis do you say that?
 
A. Our average American high school student spends 40 percent amount of time as a Japanese or German student studying math or science. Of the 18 industrialized nations, we rank 16th in performance on basic mathematics or science tests. Our students are in school 180 days and their German counterparts 210 and their Japanese counterparts 220. We are not meeting world standards.

ZIMMER
 
Q. Can I ask your views on the Whitman school finance plan?
 
A. I think in concept it's a good idea. It's probably the most sensible way to comply with the Supreme Court mandate.
 
Q. There must be a number of school districts in your Congressional District that are unhappy with the prospect of having to cut spending.
 
A. But you see, they get to spend more if their voters want them to spend more. And as somebody who has always believed in the sovereignty of the people, I think that if they can make the sale to the communities they serve, they'll have no problem. And if the public doesn't want to foot the bill for services beyond those that are constitutionally required, I don't see why the state should either force them to or should subsidize those activities.
 
Q. Do you fault the plan in any way?
 
A. Well, I'm not familiar with the details. And if I were a legislator, I'd try to massage it to get the best deal for my constituents and my school districts. But I don't see structurally that there's any other way to go, in the basic outlines of the program. Any other approach would just bust the budget and put us even further ahead of all the other states in the per capita expenditures per student without necessarily resulting in a concomitant increase in the quality of the education, or else would be very punitive in some districts. So it seems to me like it's a reasonable approach. But it's something that I have not given a lot of detailed attention to.
 
Q. How good a job do you think New Jersey's public schools are doing? And again, is there a role for the Federal Government in helping them do more?
 
A. Well, I am a product of K-through-12 New Jersey public schools [in] Hillside, Bloomfield and Glen Ridge. And I did well enough to get a National Merit Scholarship, a full scholarship to Yale, go on to Yale Law School. Both my kids went to public school K through 12 in South Orange and later Delaware Township School and then Hunterdon Central. And they both got into Yale and graduated with honors, and one is gainfully employed and the other is in graduate school. So public schools have done well by me and my family.
But there are areas in New Jersey where the public schools have betrayed the children they're supposed to serve, and we cannot afford to waste another generation while we talk about improving the quality of public schools. That's why I support a pilot program for school vouchers so that poor people will have the same kind of options that my wife and I have to pick the school that's best for their kids. I think the Federal Government, which provides about 6 cents out of the national education dollar and less for New Jersey because our schools are more expensive and we get less aid per capita, has a limited but important role to play in education. . . .
 
Q. Bob Dole said that the teachers' unions are getting in the way of improving the schools. Do you agree with that?
 
A. That's sometimes true. But the New Jersey Education Association is a very good union, in the sense that it has effectively advocated the interests of its members. And sometimes the interests of its members are not consistent with the interests of a good quality and cost-effective education.
It's not my desire to get into a fight with the N.J.E.A. They actually endorsed me once or twice. In 1990 they had buttons that said, "Vote for Bradley and Zimmer." They're up in my attic someplace. Maybe I ought to pull them out.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "SCORECARD: 2 Candidates, 3 Terms, Thousands of Votes"
Robert G. Torricelli and Richard A. Zimmer, New Jersey's candidates for United States senator, have spent three terms in Congress together, allowing a close comparison of their records -- which are more alike than their campaign ads and speeches might suggest. Chart lists votes on some key issues, records of supporting the President's position, and ratings by several interest groups.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SUBURBS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); JOB CREATION (66%); INCOME TAX (66%); 

PERSON: TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (REPR); ZIMMER, RICHARD A (REPR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



465 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Q & A;
Rallying to Stake Their Claim on a Better Future

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS 

 BODY:
Two rallies, two causes and thousands of individual reasons for joining in: here's a look at two New Jersey residents who decided to stand up and be counted. One traveled to Washington on Oct. 12 for a march to promote Hispanic issues; the other went to the United Nations on Wednesday for a rally observing the first anniversary of the Million Man March.
 
Finding a Common Voice
 
WHO Jaime Vazquez, Jersey City Councilman.
WHAT Participant and speaker at Hispanic march in Washington.
OUTSTANDING IMPRESSION "I think it is significant that there were a lot of college students there. It is important for young people to get involved in these issues."
BACKGROUND A City Councilman for more than 11 years, Mr. Vazquez is a native of Puerto Rico who came to the mainland and Jersey City in 1952, when he was 3. He is a United States Marine veteran who served in the Vietnam War and earned a Purple Heart. He has a degree in urban studies from St. Peter's College in Jersey City.
SUBJECT OF HIS TWO-MINUTE SPEECH "I told them of the things Jersey City has done to help Hispanics and all minority groups. I sponsored a resolution adopted by the City Council that makes Jersey City a safe haven for all people, no matter what their immigration status. We are not going to use city resources to identify or inform on or prosecute any immigrants. Jersey City claims the Statue of Liberty, and it has always been an immigrant city with a long history of tolerance and acceptance."
DEMOGRAPHICS One-fourth of Jersey City's 228,000 residents are Hispanic. A majority are Puerto Rican, but the number of immigrants from the Dominican Republic is growing. Ten percent of New Jersey's more than 7 million people are of Hispanic origin. many of them refugees from Cuba who settled in Hudson County.
WHAT THE MARCH ACCOMPLISHED "It brought together Hispanics from different nationalities. Puerto Ricans are United States citizens and some think the attacks on immigrants does not affect them, but that is not true. All Hispanics have a commonality. The march helped us organize politically so we can have a common agenda for better education and better economic opportunity." KAREN DeMASTERS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HISPANIC-AMERICANS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); REFUGEES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); CITIES (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); 

PERSON: DEMASTERS, KAREN; VAZQUEZ, JAIME (COUNCILMAN) JAIME VAZQUEZ (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



466 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Holders of Savings Bonds Get That Sinking Feeling

BYLINE: By MARCIA VICKERS 

 BODY:
FRAN REYNOLDS is not happy with the United States savings bonds that she bought in the mid-1980's. A few weeks ago, the bonds' 7.5 percent minimum interest rate became a thing of the past. And while there is a new floor, it is a lot lower: 4 percent.
"I'm disgusted," said Ms. Reynolds, a retired schoolteacher in Forest Hills, Queens. "I was under the impression that the minimum guaranteed rate would be there ad infinitum." 
 Not so. On Oct. 1, the last of the tens of thousands of people who bought these Series EE bonds -- they were sold between March 1983 and October 1986 -- saw the 7.5 percent rate vanish. The investments lost their guarantee bond by bond, as each passed the 10-year anniversary of purchase, which, because of the 7.5 percent floor, meant they had reached face value.
The bonds will still earn the higher of the new minimum rate or an average market yield pegged to the five-year Treasury rates. But that is small comfort; it just gives investors a choice between the 4 percent floor and a market yield of 4.06 percent.
The Government is not certain how much is invested in the 7.5 percent bonds, but it is surely many billions of dollars. An estimated $4 billion of them were bought in just the last three days they were sold.
Despite the surprise of Ms. Reynolds, the Treasury Department did not pull a fast one. Under longstanding rules that applied to bonds sold before May 1995, the investments were bought at half of face value, and the rate guarantee evaporated once they reached that value. (To figure the maximum time needed to reach it, use the "rule of 72": Divide 72 by the guaranteed rate, then round off the answer. For 7.5 percent bonds, it is 10 years.) After the bonds mature, meaning they arrive at face value, the original guaranteed minimum is replaced with the prevailing rate, now 4 percent.
Old or not, these savings bond rules are hardly common knowledge. "Most of these investors are unaware of the rate expiration -- even though it was disclosed to them when they bought the bonds -- because they haven't been sent any further notice or received regular statements," said Daniel J. Pederson, founder and president of the Savings Bond Informer, a Detroit company that provides bond information.
The Treasury Department itself acknowledges that the rules are elusive. "If you thought savings bonds were plain-vanilla investments, they're really vanilla fudge, with rocky road mixed in," said Pete Hollenbach, a spokesman for the department's Bureau of Public Debt. Few people may know, for example, that Series EE savings bonds earn interest for 30 years.
These confusions are one reason the Treasury changed the rules last year. Bonds bought on or after May 1, 1995, have variable interest rates based solely on the market, with no minimum rate. Bonds held for less than five years get 85 percent of the average yield that six-month Treasury bills earn during the bonds' life, while longer-term bonds get 85 percent of the average yield of five-year Treasuries.
"With new bonds going forward, we're really trying to simplify matters," Mr. Hollenbach said.
Should investors with the 7.5 percent bonds sell them and put the proceeds into other investments? Not necessarily.
"Savings bonds still may be considered a good deal when compared with other investments in the same conservative class, such as money markets, savings accounts and certificates of deposit," said Joel Isaacson, a financial planner in New York City. For example, the bonds are subject only to Federal tax and the tax is paid only upon redemption, while many other investments are fully taxable as interest accrues.
"When you look at the low yields of the other investments and take the tax implications into consideration, suddenly savings bonds don't look so bad," Mr. Isaacson said.
New savings bonds now yield 4.36 percent if held for less than five years and 4.85 percent if held longer. These rates will change on Nov. 1 -- they are adjusted twice a year under the May 1995 plan -- but they are not expected to move significantly.
Depending on income, taxes and the effect of other savings bond rules, however, investors may still want to cash in their 7.5 percent bonds. But remember that timing can be crucial. "By cashing out just one day too soon, you can lose an entire six months of interest," Mr. Isaacson said. Savings bond earnings are credited in six-month increments from the date of purchase; according to Mr. Pederson, about $100 million is forfeited each year by investors who mistime their bond redemptions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: For Fran Reynolds of Forest Hills, Queens, the plunge in the guaranteed minimum interest rate on her savings bonds was a surprise. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; SAVINGS BONDS BONDS (95%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); BOND ISSUES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (53%); 

PERSON: VICKERS, MARCIA FRAN REYNOLDS (66%); JOEL ISAACSON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



467 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Tourism Might Just Destroy New York's Flavor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
With regard to your glowing account of the transformation of 42d Street (Arts pages, Oct. 15) and the rising role of tourism in the New York economy, I would like to register this cautionary point: Are we one more step down the road to blandness?
Although tourism can be financially rewarding for those who run the venues, it can also have a chilling effect on local cultural development. Take a look at London, Paris or Rome, all great tourism meccas by design. These cities, while marketed for their cultural treasures of the past, are culturally anemic, or worse, in the present. Somehow, the marketing of location for mass tourism tends to freeze-dry it, as if it were a moving target that needed to be stopped. Need I mention Florida? 
 The new emphasis on tourism comes at a sensitive time in our city's evolution. To many, New York has already seen a decade-long shrinking of its prominence as a cultural innovator. No longer do we set the trends in fashion, music or the fine arts. I can only attribute this to the employment cutbacks that have occurred in many of our most culturally dynamic industries, like network television, fashion and music.
We would do well to emphasize both tourism and rehabilitation of the local forces that helped make this place unique. The day that we all get to ride on a Holden Caulfield Simulator is the day that we are through.
 
FRANK KALAMAJKA
New York, Oct. 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; FORTY-SECOND STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FASHION & APPAREL (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%); 

PERSON: KALAMAJKA, FRANK

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



468 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Investors Hate Oil, But It Keeps Going Up

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Markets are amazing things. Sometimes they go up because everyone thinks they will. And sometimes they go up even though no one thinks they will.
It is the oil market that provides clear evidence of the latter point. Almost unnoticed by most investors, oil has been a much better investment this year than stocks. The spot price of oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange is up 32 percent in 1996, while the Dow Jones industrial average has risen just 19 percent. 
 Throughout that run-up, there has been widespread disbelief. In the last 15 years, investors and oil company officials alike have learned that any rise in the price of oil is likely to be temporary.
(Over that same period, investors have concluded that any fall in share prices will be temporary, but we'll get to that later.)
A result of the disbelief has been that virtually everyone in the oil business has taken steps to protect themselves from the inevitable fall in prices. Refiners buy only as much crude as they must have immediately, fearful that they will end up with overpriced crude oil. It has been widely assumed that Iraq would be allowed to sell oil, or that Saudi Arabia would bolster production to protect us from high prices.
Neither has happened yet, and inventories are tight as winter approaches. Hazel O'Leary, the Energy Secretary, called oil executives to Washington on Friday in the hope that talk would prevent increases in home heating oil prices.
For now, anyway, it appears the Government will not order sales of crude from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, as it did last April. (That move provided a fine example of how the Government wastes our money. The oil was bought, at prices well above current quotes, supposedly as protection from a supply cutoff, of which there was and is no threat. Buy high, sell low.)
Even with Government sales last spring, oil prices soon resumed their rise. Someday soon the suspicion may grow that worldwide demand now matches supply, creating the possibility of a new bull market in oil.
You don't believe that? It is hard to accept -- at least as difficult as it once was to believe that oil prices could ever fall. In 1981, I attended an energy conference that featured academics and oil industry executives. The debate centered on how fast oil prices would rise. The possibility of a decline was not even considered.
In those days, stocks were cheap and unloved. In the autumn of 1981, the Dow Jones industrial average was trading in the 800's, well under the level it had reached in 1966. It was generally agreed that stocks should be bought, if at all, for quick trades, not as long-term investments.
Now, the Dow is above 6,000. And a poll of mutual fund investors, conducted for Liberty Financial by Louis Harris & Associates, finds a consensus that prices will only rise. Only 14 percent think the stock market will fail to do at least as well in the next decade as it did in the last one. Four out of 10 think the market will not have a 10 percent fall in any year of the next 10.
Such complacency does not prove that prices are set to fall. Stocks, unlike oil, cannot be consumed, and prices can keep climbing if money continues to pour in.
Still, it is interesting to wonder why oil prices are rising when almost everyone thinks they shouldn't. And one might recall that when the Dow plunged 45 percent in less than two years in 1973-74, it was soaring oil prices that got much of the blame.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Unexpected Gusher" shows the New York Mercantile Exchange price for a barrel of oil for November delivery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPOL (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRAQ (77%); 

COMPANY: HARRIS INTERACTIVE INC (50%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRAQ (77%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; STOCKS AND BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); GASOLINE MARKETS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); FUEL MARKETS (79%); BOND MARKETS (79%); SPOT MARKET (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); GASOLINE (77%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); HEATING OIL (77%); BONDS (77%); HEATING OIL PRICES (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



469 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS;
Ready to Go In Vietnam: Alas, There's No Market

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY MIDDLETON 

 BODY:
INVESTING in Vietnam is so hard that even J. Mark Mobius is struggling.
Two years ago, Mr. Mobius started the Templeton Vietnam Opportunities fund in expectation of a stock market in Vietnam -- but no such market has developed. And so earlier this month the Securities and Exchange Commission and shareholders approved changes in the policies of the $100 million closed-end fund. 
 "When we launched, a stock market was going to come in 1994, and then '95, and then '96, and '97, and now they're talking about the year 2000," said Mr. Mobius, a well-regarded emerging-markets expert who manages several funds from Hong Kong. "The bottom line is the whole intent of the fund has had to change."
Vietnam's allures for business are many, including low wages and enormous tourism potential. But as in many other rapidly developing countries, its economic reach is exceeding its political grasp. As eager as the nation's leaders are to attract Western money, they are as unschooled in capitalism's legal and market underpinnings as they are suspicious of the country's colonial past.
The Templeton fund has thus been marking time. About half its assets are in United States Treasury bills, with most of the rest in shares of Asian companies doing some business in Vietnam, like Jardine Matheson of Hong Kong, which has construction and development deals in Hanoi. From the fund's start-up through September, its net asset value is up 0.32 percent, annualized, while its market price is off 11.6 percent.
Mr. Mobius's latest tack is to invest directly in joint ventures operating in Vietnam, a switch that required approval of both the S.E.C. and shareholders.
Since receiving those approvals, Mr. Mobius said he had invested about 2 percent of the fund's assets in a minority stake in Phuben Tea, a plantation and processing center in north Vietnam. The operating partner is Sipef East Asia, a Belgian concern. He said he was in talks with Indotel, a Singapore company that holds a majority stake in hotels managed by the Accor Group of France, but a venture has not been completed. In all such ventures, he said, the fund would take a minority position and rely on its partner to manage the business.
IN a telephone interview from Turkey, Mr. Mobius said that he had been offered 150 deals but that few met his investment criteria, which include an experienced and successful venture partner, complete government licenses in advance and a defined mechanism to get his investors' capital out.
The S.E.C. has given the Vietnam fund until October 1997 to have at least 65 percent of assets invested in Vietnam. If it does not, it will have to liquidate or change its name. Mr. Mobius rates his chances of meeting this goal as 60-40. "I've bought some of the fund so I think there's a chance," he said, "but I'm not putting out any guarantees."
A name change and a formal switch in focus may be likelier than liquidation. Thomas J. Herzfeld, publisher of The Investor's Guide to Closed-End Funds, a newsletter published in Miami, noted that a closed-end fund he runs, the Herzfeld Caribbean Basin Fund, changed its name from the Cuba Fund when it saw no end to the United States-led trade embargo of Cuba.
Calling Mr. Mobius "one of our heroes," Mr. Herzfeld said that he and his money-management clients were investors in the Vietnam fund and that he planned to stay with it. "It has really turned out to be an Asian regional fund," he said, "with a Vietnam punch should the market develop there."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AC (PAR) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (63%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (63%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (63%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (63%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (98%); HONG KONG (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); VIETNAM (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); 

COMPANY: TEMPLETON VIETNAM OPPORTUNITIES FUND ACCOR SA (63%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEMPLETON VIETNAM OPPORTUNITIES FUND SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; VIET NAM (98%); HONG KONG (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); VIETNAM (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); APPROVALS (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (86%); VENTURE CAPITAL (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); BONDS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); HOTEL CHAINS (66%); JOINT VENTURES (63%); INTERVIEWS (60%); TOURISM (54%); LICENSES & PERMITS (50%); 

PERSON: MIDDLETON, TIMOTHY J MARK MOBIUS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



470 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Job Uncertainty Makes Offers Easier to Refuse

BYLINE: By ROY FURCHGOTT 

 BODY:
AS an advertising executive, Paul Cappelli knows an enticing pitch when he hears one, and over the last five years he's heard a few -- like the one the Leo Burnett Company used to try to lure him from his New York agency to Burnett's Chicago headquarters. He said he was offered a raise and signing bonus that was too good to pass up.
But he did pass it up, choosing instead to stay in his lower-paying job in New York, where he felt more secure. "If something should go wrong here, it would be easier to find another job," Mr. Cappelli said. "In Chicago, I'm a fish out of water." 
 Workers around the country have been doing the same thing, saying job uncertainty has made them less willing to transfer to a different city for their current company or to relocate for a new employer. According to a survey this summer by the New York recruiters Battalia Winston International, 54 percent of the executives polled said job insecurity would encourage them to remain in their current positions instead of moving for a job elsewhere. One byproduct of this insecurity: executives are more willing to move to New York, perceiving that it offers a lot of job opportunities.
The most recent biennial survey of relocation and human resource executives by Runzheimer International, industry consultants based in Rochester, Wis., showed that relocations fell to an average of 155 at each company in 1994, the last time the survey was done, from a peak of 245 in 1990. In its 1996 survey, due out next year, the firm expects to see little change from 1994. Relocations have been falling, the firm said, for several reasons: with increased layoffs, there are fewer employees to move, companies have been reducing the number of relocations to cut costs and stability-minded executives are less eager to move.
"Contracts with employers aren't what they used to be," said Dale Winston of Battalia Winston. "People are afraid it won't work out, and not because they think they won't do a good job."
It's not just the employees who suffer, said Beverly Berberich, a corporate relocation manager at S. C. Johnson Wax in Racine, Wis. "It's really hindering corporate America from having the right person in the right place at the right time."
All of this concern over job security is, surprisingly, benefiting New York. Suddenly, the city seems more attractive: crime is down, and although New York's job growth has lagged that of most of the country, executives perceive that if they lose their jobs here they will have a better chance of finding new ones.
"Right now the economy is good, and New York is a hub for business," said Karen Russo, a recruiter in Greenwich, Conn., specializing in middle management.
New York, which Ms. Winston said had been among the toughest locations for recruiters to sell to prospects for more than 20 years, has become the third-most-popular city for executives, behind Boston and San Francisco, according to her firm's survey. "Popularity of a geographic area has a lot to do with the press, and New York is getting great press," she said.
While New York's reputation as a livable city has grown, some executives who left found that the better life they sought outside the city never materialized.
"I have seen three of four clients go down to Atlanta and they don't like it," Ms. Russo said. "They think they will have this great life style, and they don't."
"A lot of people are coming to me saying, 'I want to come back to New York.' The crime rate has dropped and people are comfortable being in the city now," she said.
Employees who do move are negotiating larger signing bonuses and severance packages, industry experts say.
"People will go to the moon for opportunity, but they want insurance," said Michael Palma, a recruiter based in Atlanta.
The increasing number of two-income families are also changing the equation.
"If you are concerned about job security and you uproot a working spouse, you are jeopardizing two salaries," said James Simon of PHH Relocation in Danbury, Conn. "If your spouse has a job, you have the opportunity to pass up a transfer."
According to the Runzheimer study, the top requests by transferees are for help in selecting schools for their children and in finding a job for a spouse. But most of the relocation executives polled said they expected big increases in requests for help in finding a job for a trailing spouse and nearly half expected an increase in requests for help with schools and assistance in finding care facilities for elderly parents.
The growing reluctance to move has raised the bids for desirable executives. While those transferring within a company can do some bargaining for perks, it is the relocated new hires that are getting the richest deals.
"I rarely move an executive without a sign-on bonus," Ms. Winston, the recruiter, said.
Most new hires also look for a hefty severance package in case they get downsized in an unfamiliar new city. "It's security and enticement," said Maria Capano, a recruiter in Westport, Conn. Ms. Capano says she now sees severance of up to two years' base salary.
Of course, while executives can bargain the terms, they can not always afford to refuse the offer to move.
"Maybe you are the fair-haired boy and your company wants you to transfer, and you say, 'No thanks,' " said Roger Aylward of PHH Relocation. "You just went from the fast track to the slow track, which often leads to the exit ramp."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Cappelli, president of the Ad Store, turned down a job offer in Chicago to stay in New York. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS325612 POLISH & OTHER SANITATION GOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2842 SPECIALTY CLEANING, POLISHING, & SANITATION PREPARATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (64%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: BATTALIA WINSTON INTERNATIONAL; AD STORE (CO) LEO BURNETT CO INC (91%); RUNZHEIMER INTERNATIONAL LTD (54%); S C JOHNSON & SON INC (52%); NEW YORK (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: BATTALIA WINSTON INTERNATIONAL; AD STORE (CO) NEW YORK (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (64%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL EMPLOYMENT (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (88%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (73%); CONTRACTS LAW (71%); CRIME RATES (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); 

PERSON: CAPPELLI, PAUL; FURCHGOTT, ROY DALE WINSTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



471 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2445 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Why the Bull Is a Compulsive Climber

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
UP, up, up it goes, and where it stops nobody knows. Since stock prices began climbing out of the trough of the 1990 recession, the Dow Jones industrial average has grown at 10 times the pace of the American economy. Perhaps as remarkable, investors have brushed aside every bit of troubling news -- from interest rate increases to the defeat of an incumbent Republican President -- with barely a hiccup. Not once in the last six years have stock prices fallen by as much as 10 percent.
There are plenty of reasons the stock market should never have reached these dizzying heights: share prices are out of touch with underlying values, compared with earnings, dividend yields and almost every other measure. Other markets -- commodities, real estate, European stocks -- are far better buys. And so on. 
 You've heard all the naysaying. Many a newspaper, including this one, have repeatedly offered up the warning flags as the stock market continued its inexorable long march.
Indeed, each new milestone in the upward trajectory has brought a number of undeniably smart -- but so far mistaken -- pessimists to the fore. And the rush beyond the 6,000 mark a mere 11 months after the Dow reached 5,000 is no exception.
"We've passed through bullish into idolatry," allows James Grant, a longtime bear and editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer.
But successful Wall Streeters are nothing if they are not adaptable.
More and more, bearish noises are being drowned out by the sounds of latter-day Panglosses explaining why this is the best of all possible worlds. They're pretty smart, too. And rich. So here are five plausible, even compelling, explanations for why it has paid so handsomely to take stock in America.
 
The Supersoft Landing
Once upon a time, there was a business cycle. On the way up, factories hummed, corporate profits rose and stock prices followed along happily. But as markets for labor, raw materials and key industrial goods tightened, inflation inevitably reared its ugly head. Just as inevitably, the Federal Reserve responded by raising interest rates. When profits were squeezed between higher borrowing costs and slackening sales, stock prices fell -- in anticipation of the lean years that would follow the fat ones. Then the cycle started over again.
But that's just an outdated fairy tale these days, isn't it? This time around, suggests Bruce Steinberg, an economist at Merrill Lynch, there is no big bad wolf at the door. As long as the economy keeps growing, all those little pigs who pour money into the stock market have a much greater chance of living a long life.
"I don't think this is a complicated story," Mr. Steinberg says. "The economic expansion is already the third longest in American history, yet inflation remains very low."
Indeed, after a brief scare last summer, wages are rising only slightly faster than earlier. That's true even though unemployment is hovering just above 5 percent, a rate so low that workers should be demanding -- and getting -- big raises. But they aren't. And with productivity up at least modestly, there is little pressure on companies to raise prices. That relieves the Fed of any immediate obligation to increase interest rates and should eliminate the risk that tighter credit will push the economy into recession anytime soon.
And there is no end in sight. Economic growth has slowed in the second half of 1996, easing inflation pressures even further. While corporate profits are likely to be more modest next year, the prospect of what many call the "Goldilocks economy" -- neither too hot nor too cold -- promises to keep interest rates down, sustaining the current boom and justifying all the stock market euphoria.
Still, opinions are not unanimous. Burton Malkiel, an economist at Princeton University and the author of "A Random Walk Down Wall Street" (Norton, 1996), is unconvinced that the recession genie has been securely contained.
"A major shock -- say, a war in the Persian Gulf -- could still trigger a recession," he says. Mr. Malkiel also points out that continuing good news on commodity prices is largely a consequence of the failure of Japanese and European economies to recover. "A worldwide boom could mean a resurgence of inflation," he warns.
But that is just what you would expect a professional economist to say. They don't call it the dismal science for nothing.

The Baby Boomer's Gift
The story fills the pages of every personal finance magazine: America's huge cohort of 30- and 40-somethings is finally coming to grips with its mortality -- or, at least, with the need to save in order to retire in style. And with study after study showing that the after-inflation return on stocks has been three times higher than the return on bonds over the long haul, those 76 million boomers are convinced they have little choice but to feed the raging bull.
How else to explain the record increases, month after month, in money flowing into mutual funds? Moreover, there should be plenty of room left for buying. That's because Americans as a group hold only about 30 percent of their financial assets in stocks -- less than they did in the 1960's and far less than most investment counselors advise.
This would be a more convincing explanation for the stratospheric rise in stock values, however, if family savings had been plowed into stocks in the 1990's as much as all the advertising would have you believe. The problem, notes H. Bradlee Perry, former chairman of David L. Babson investment advisers, is that the numbers don't match the hype. While individuals have indeed been investing heavily in stock mutual funds through 401(k) plans, individual retirement accounts and the like, the additions have been offset by liquidation of directly owned shares. Indeed, from 1990 through 1995, stock liquidation apparently exceeded purchases by $51 billion. "People haven't been throwing money at the stock market in a mad frenzy," Mr. Perry concludes.
But those numbers are open to question, particularly because a lot of the liquidation occurred as companies bought back their own shares or were taken over in mergers. Moreover, net purchases of stocks through mutual funds exceeded liquidation of directly owned shares by $53 billion in the first half of this year, perhaps helping to explain the last 1,000-point run-up in the Dow.
 
Figures Do Lie
A logical place to look for clues to equity values is in historical comparisons. The catch, suggests Abby Joseph Cohen, co-chairwoman of the investment policy committee at Goldman, Sachs, is that the standard benchmarks that suggest the market is overvalued are not good predictors of market performance.
Take the ratio of dividends to stock prices, which is now less than 2 percent for the corporations in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. The old rule of thumb among traders is that yields below 3 percent are a sure signal to sell. But Ms. Cohen notes that five of the last eight times dividends have slipped below the magic number, stock prices have risen the next six months.
Paul Samuelson, the Nobel Prize-winning economist at M.I.T., dismisses the yield rule as a logical nonstarter. "Why should dividend rates mean much," he said, "when there are good tax reasons to pay no dividends at all?"
Another highflying benchmark, the price-to-earnings ratio (now about 20 to 1) for the S.& P. 500, is seriously flawed. While the current figure is high by historical standards -- it was well below 15 for most of the 1980's and stood at 22 on the eve of the crash in October 1987 -- Ms. Cohen is not impressed. Earnings "quality" varies sharply with inflation because it is heavily influenced by spurious factors, like the value of inventories, in times of rising prices. And with inflation tightly controlled, she argues, current P.E. ratios are not "troublesome."
One number that has impressed academically oriented analysts is "Tobin's Q," -- the ratio of stock prices to the replacement cost of the capital they represent. Named after its inventor, James Tobin, the Nobel economist at Yale University, Q measures market value by what it would cost to build the hard assets of a company from scratch. If Q is below 1, it is cheaper to buy productive capacity than to build it -- an insight not lost on corporate raiders in the 1980's, when Q was as low as 0.6. But if Q is far above 1, it suggests that stocks are overvalued.
From this perspective, stock prices are high. But that has been true for some time, and the market has risen anyway. According to Goldman, Sachs, Q for the S.& P. industrials broke above 1 in 1991 and is now between 1.4 and 1.5. Still, that is not dizzyingly high: Q touched 1.9 in 1965 and was above 1.5 for much of the 1960's. And there is a plausible argument why Q ought to rise over time because it fails to account for the increasing importance of short-lived and "intangible" capital -- software, organizational skills and the like.
"Q is a good place to begin the discussion of stock values," Ms. Cohen concludes, "but not a good place to end it."

New Times, New Paradigms
The stock market is not for coasters; if old rules don't work, move to new ones.
David Shulman, the chief equity strategist for Salomon Brothers, should probably get the credit for the term "paradigm shift," now a stylish Wall Street phrase. In a report published in December 1995, Mr. Shulman abandoned his bearish stance, arguing that the bull market mirrors a fundamental change in expectations of inflation.
But the idea that the book on stock market valuation needs to be rewritten has since acquired a lot more baggage. "Paradigm shift" has become shorthand for the case that highflying stock prices reflect a recognition of the superior performance of the American brand of capitalism. "This economy has undergone a true renaissance," Ms. Cohen argues, "and it's far from over."
Just why are investors in love with the new order? Ms. Cohen counts the ways. For starters, she says, there has been a "fundamental reversal in sentiment on fiscal policy." With big budget deficits no longer politically acceptable, Washington will no longer compete with business for scarce capital. Already, the deficit has come down from 6 percent of the economy's output in 1992 to under 1.5 percent today.
Add to this the fact that businesses have increased profitability by means that Ms. Cohen argues "go way beyond downsizing." The emphasis is now on return to capital, with far more attention paid to long-range goals. Corporations are bulletproofing their balance sheets by reducing debt and increasing efficiency by investing heavily in technology. "It's striking," she notes, "that the big boom in computer sales started during the last recession."
Again, though, Mr. Malkiel is inclined to rain on the optimists' parade. For all the anecdotes about the more businesslike attitude of business, he says, "there is no evidence that measured productivity growth is recovering from terrible levels experienced since the mid-1970's." Nor, he argues, is there good reason to believe that corporate profits will continue to outpace economic growth. While the return to human capital is exceptionally high, the return to physical capital -- the sort corporations own -- shows no signs of a breakout.

The Greater Fool Theory
There are myriad ways to justify owning stocks at this or that price. In the end, though, they all lead to the same place. Sooner or later -- preferably sooner -- the idea is to find someone who will buy the shares for more than you paid.
The economist John Maynard Keynes likened the stock market to a strange sort of contest that was popular in the British press in the 1930's. Pictures of a dozen attractive women were published and readers were asked to vote. The object, though, was not to pick the prettiest woman, but the one that other voters would pick as the prettiest. In the stock market, Keynes was suggesting, what counts is not intrinsic value but predicting what others consider valuable.
The two may coincide. When they do, successful investors are congratulated for improving the "efficiency" of the market. When they don't, they are derided as speculators.
But how to measure the degree to which "speculation" explains current stock prices? Mr. Perry, the former head of Babson, takes a stab. "Netscape fever" -- the spectacular run-up of prices for stocks with little or no earnings history -- has been the exception, not the rule, in recent years. And "the occasional excesses in various sectors have been quickly corrected," he says.
That is certainly what happened to some of the highfliers, like Iomega, that have been so popular on the hip Internet bulletin boards, like "The Motley Fool."
Robert Shiller of Yale offers a novel approach to investigating the motives of investors: he asks them. Of course, you can't expect many stock market plungers to classify themselves as speculators. But among the questions that Mr. Shiller posed to institutional and individual investors, one amounted to just that. He asked if the following was true or false: "Although I expect a substantial drop in stock prices ultimately, I advise being relatively heavily invested in stocks for the time being because I think that prices are likely to rise for a while."
Among institutional investors polled, the percentage answering "true" rose steadily until very recently, nearly tripling from the fall of 1994 to the spring of 1996. But since then, the percentage has fallen. Perhaps the long-term bears have seen the light from the paradigm shift and now expect prices to rise as far as the eye can see -- or perhaps they have simply succumbed to mass hysteria.
Mr. Shiller's more limited poll of individual investors with big portfolios is intriguing, too. In the fall of 1994, with the Dow at 2,500, some 44 percent of these investors answered "true." By last month, it rose to 54 percent. "The fact that more than half those polled believed the market was overvalued, yet still had a way to go before it fell, has to mean something," he argues.

Deja Vu-doo Economics
But what exactly does it mean? Plainly, this is not October 1929, when run-of-the-mill investment trusts -- the equivalent of today's closed-end mutual funds -- were selling for two or three times the value of the stocks they owned and betting on stocks had become the national pastime.
Or maybe, just maybe, it is: a few days before panic set in, Prof. Irving Fisher of Yale, the greatest economist of his era, announced that he expected "to see the stock market a good deal higher than it is today within a few months."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Benchmarks: Out of Date?" shows the ratio of stock prices in the Standard & Poor's industrials to their replacement value, often called the Q ratio, 70's-90's. (Source: Goldman, Sachs & Co.); "Stock Holdings: Room to Grow?" shows the percentage of financial assets that U.S. individual investors have in the equity market, 1968-1996. (Source: H. Bradiee Perry, David L. Babson & Co.); "Speculators: Gathering Steam?" shows percentage of individual and institutional investors bullish on stocks, 1990-1996. (Source: Robert Schiller of Yale University and Yoshiro Tsutsui of Osaka University) (pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); BONDS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER JAMES GRANT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



472 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: The Voters Sober Up

BYLINE: By Alan Ehrenhalt; Alan Ehrenhalt is executive editor of Governing magazine and the author, most recently, of "The Lost City: The Forgotten Virtues of Community in America."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Sometimes the best way to understand a Presidential campaign is to imagine how it might feel to have taken a nap in the middle of it.
Suppose you had dozed off nine months ago, in the midst of the primaries, and were waking up only now, with the fall Presidential campaign plodding to a close. Something would seem very strange. Not the candidates -- they were odds-on favorites all along. Not the arguments, either. Bob Dole wants a big tax cut. President Clinton wants to protect education and Medicare. You didn't miss a whole lot there. 
 What's puzzling is the country that these two men seem to be talking about. It doesn't sound like the place where you went to sleep in January. That was a deeply dispirited country, mired in a hollow recovery that brought scarcely any relief to the millions who had lost jobs to the economic dislocations of the past decade.
In January, the campaign played to an audience primed to listen to tales of overpaid chief executives and amoral companies sacrificing dedicated employees to demands for ever higher stock prices.
It was a situation ripe for the populism of Pat Buchanan, and he went to town with it. But he wasn't the only one. While Mr. Buchanan railed in Iowa and New Hampshire against corporate greed, the news magazines were splashing it across their covers. In December 1995, The New York Times conducted a telephone poll in which 64 percent of 1,000 voters agreed that the country had "pretty seriously gotten off on the wrong track." Only 20 percent said they were getting ahead financially. The rest thought they were barely staying even or slipping behind.
Nod off for a few months and you wake up in a different country altogether. The greedy capitalists and the exploited workers have disappeared. Not only is the President boasting about the health of the economy, but his opponent, when he does try to insist that something is wrong, hardly sounds as if he believes it. Every time you pick up a newspaper, a columnist is writing that Mr. Clinton will be re-elected because everyone is in such good spirits. While you were sleeping, the Age of Dislocation ended and a new Era of Good Feeling mysteriously began.
How did it come about? You wonder if there might have been some truly remarkable news -- maybe an economic upturn of some sort. Perhaps the two parties finally agreed on a plan to balance the budget and the ensuing euphoria spread outward from Wall Street. But no, nothing like that appears to have happened. The economy is still in recovery, but it is the same erratic and uneven recovery -- concentrated in the upper reaches of the work force -- that had so many people in such a sour mood nine months ago.
Perhaps, then, the troubles were exaggerated, as so many economists have insisted all along. Maybe our problem last winter wasn't the dislocation of our economic lives but our failure to notice just how happy we really were.
But it couldn't have been an illusion. The deindustrialization of America over the last two decades, the loss of more than 40 million jobs, the fragility of even the most comfortable middle-class income -- all of these are profoundly disruptive societal events that no economist can explain away. The social cost of laying off a worker isn't canceled out by the creation of some other job 1,000 miles away -- especially when that job, more often than not, pays less or carries the threat of another layoff not too far down the road.
The American people understand this issue instinctively. How did it manage to disappear from the election year campaign?
The more you look around, the clearer it seems that this isn't really a season of satisfaction. The public opinion polls on personal satisfaction don't look much different from the way they looked in January. A survey conducted this month by The Washington Post, the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation and Harvard turned up the same feelings of financial insecurity and lack of confidence that were evident eight months ago. Only a quarter of voters said they expected the standard of living to rise over the next five years.
Satisfaction just isn't the word to describe the mood in this election year, no matter how many economists or how many columnists try to tell you that it is. Sobriety would be a much better term.
The vast majority of Americans believe that middle-class existence in the 1990's is frighteningly tenuous, and cheaper imported VCR's are not adequate reimbursement for these anxieties. These voters also believe that nobody knows how to change this situation -- that maybe nothing can change it.
We have these seasons of sobriety every once in a while in American politics -- we just don't have them very often. There was certainly nothing very sober about the Presidential election four years ago, with self-proclaimed "change agents" babbling their simple solutions. Nor was the election in 1994 sober, with the Republicans' swaggering talk of revolution. To find a mood anything like the current one, you have to go back to 1972, when the voters calmly re-elected Richard M. Nixon while scarcely seeming to like him at all.
Sometimes it takes a long time to sober up, and sometimes it happens with bewildering suddenness. For many Americans, it happened last Christmas, as they watched Congressional Republicans force a Government shutdown. Voters understood that episode much better than the major players, understood what it meant to hold the democratic process hostage to a fuzzy fiscal blueprint stretching years into the future.
Whatever most of us think of the Federal Government, very few of us believe it should be opened and closed because of ideological whims. The 1996 election has been shaped by those weeks last winter, whether we talk much about it or not.
I do not subscribe to the populist dictum that voters are more realistic than the politicians. Most of the time, alas, they are pretty easy to deceive. Tell them that you have a secret plan to end the Vietnam War, or that you know how to shrink 200 Federal agencies into a couple of dozen, or that you can balance the budget while cutting taxes and splurging on defense and there is a good chance they will believe you.
Gullibility has its off years, however, and 1996 is one of them. Voters are disinclined to listen to a lot of easy answers from either party's candidate. They have sent that message to Bob Dole; he promised to cut their taxes by 15 percent and found them not only skeptical but bored. Voters seem to have concluded that no candidate or party has good answers to the swarm of economic and cultural problems that confront American society in the closing years of the century.
 It is easy enough to mistake this current state of mind for contentment, or, at the other extreme, to dismiss it as cynicism. But sobriety is really the word for it. This election is being conducted not with the usual anticipation of change but with the hard-earned recognition of how difficult and expensive change really is.
It won't last forever. Sooner or later, we will tire of sobriety and fall back into the hands of candidates eager to tell us about all the solutions that lie just around the corner. That will be a campaign truly worth sleeping through.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); LABOR FORCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); WRITERS (65%); 

PERSON: EHRENHALT, ALAN BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



473 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2527 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Airlines Finally Reach Cruising Speed

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT 

 BODY:
UNTIL recently, the airline industry induced vertigo as few other cyclical businesses could.
While other consumer industries went through good times and bad, airlines mostly gyrated between bad and awful. In just the first five years of the 1990's, they lost $13 billion, more than all the profits accumulated since the Wright Brothers made their historic flight at Kitty Hawk in 1903. 
 The explanation can be summarized in one word: overexpansion. From the 1950's on, airlines repeatedly responded to rapid traffic growth by ordering fleets of new aircraft. Like steroids, the planes were intended to make them bigger and stronger. But also like steroids, they weakened the airlines' long-term health; by the time the aircraft were delivered, traffic growth had typically trailed off, leaving too many planes chasing too few passengers.
The industry didn't seem able to learn from its mistakes, in part because it was dominated by such big egos. Perhaps no executive embodied the freewheeling style of the 1980's like Frank Lorenzo. After starting with the small Texas International Airlines, he swallowed Continental, Eastern, People Express and Frontier, at one point presiding over the world's largest airline company. But even after his empire ran into trouble, with Eastern in bankruptcy, Mr. Lorenzo plowed ahead with a $2.8 billion order for 100 planes.
Now, however, the big airlines seem to be mending their ways. Stung by their recent disastrous run and taken over in many cases by a new crop of chief executives more in tune with the sober-minded 1990's, they are turning the old strategy practically on its head. By slashing the huge debt burdens and reining in the urge to expand, these executives are trying to smooth out the wild swings of the industry's boom-and-bust cycles.
"It's not a testosterone-driven industry any longer," said Gordon Bethune, chairman of Continental Airlines. "Success is making money, not in the size of the airline."
And the airlines are making some money. Analysts are projecting a profit margin for the entire industry of about 4 percent for 1996 -- paltry by the standards of most consumer businesses, perhaps, but the industry's best performance since it registered a record 5.2 percent margin in 1978. And in a sign of success in controlling their capacity, airlines are expected to fill an average of 70 percent of their seats this year, the fullest their planes have been since World War II.
All this, of course, does not necessarily mean that investors should rush out and load up on airline stocks. The industry is volatile, after all, and has defied predictability time and again. Airline stocks have also historically underperformed the broad market averages. And even as the industry returns to profitability, most airline stocks are slumping, depressed by a surge in the cost of jet fuel and disappointment that the growth in earnings is leveling off.
Some investors may also wonder whether the new-found humility of airline executives will last, and whether the mistakes of the past will be repeated. More seats are being added, although far more slowly than during previous periods when the economy was healthy.
"The discipline is there," said Samuel C. Buttrick, an airline industry analyst at Paine Webber. "But it's being tested."
For now, though, the changes in the industry are real, and Mr. Bethune of Continental says they are likely to endure. "If five guys ahead of you burned their finger in the candle, why would you put your finger in there?" he asked.
In a broad sense, the airlines have lagged behind many other industries that years ago set out to reinvent themselves -- autos and steel to cope with foreign competitors, telephone companies to deal with deregulation, or banks to overcome their lending excesses. But the airlines have learned more slowly, in part because they staked so much on a strategy that seemed to make sense at the time.
In years past, the nation's skies were viewed as a battleground, and bigger airlines operated on the premise that it was possible to drive their weaker rivals out of business and dominate the industry. Investors, buying into the theory, applauded aggressive moves to build up arsenals of new aircraft.
In 1989, after Robert L. Crandall, chairman of the AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines, placed a huge $7 billion order for new aircraft, AMR's stock price jumped sharply. Mr. Crandall also won flattering press coverage for this and other moves, with headlines like, "American Takes On the World" on the cover of Fortune in 1990.
Many others followed his lead, but met with the same mixed results as Mr. Crandall, whose payoff for spending $20 billion to expand in the 1980's was a modest gain in domestic market share and underwhelming profits.
Today, however, airlines have realized that the best offense is a good defense. Airline executives, trying to shake off comparisons to lemmings and kamikaze pilots, have also surprised many industry analysts with their commitment to repairing their battered balance sheets by paying down billions of dollars of debt rather than buying new aircraft to expand their route networks.
Since the end of 1994, for example, AMR has slashed its debt by $3.5 billion; Northwest Airlines by $1.9 billion and Delta by about $1.4 billion.
"It's fairly impressive how consistent they've been on that goal," said Philip Baggaley, an airline industry analyst at Standard & Poor's, the credit-rating agency. "Five or 10 years ago, that wasn't on their radar screen of what's important."
As a result, projections for aircraft deliveries over the next several years are sharply lower than in the early 1990's. The Air Transport Association, the industry's trade group, said that at the end of 1990, United States airlines had orders or options to buy 2,748 aircraft. At the end of June 1996, that figure stood at 1,111. And American Airlines, the big spender of the 1980's, currently has no orders or options.
Although some airlines like United and Continental have placed orders since June, they are stressing that those planes are to replace older models and those that do not meet tougher Federal noise standards that go into effect in 2000.
IN another manifestation of their new-found conservatism, many airlines have retreated to their so-called fortress hubs, where they can dominate the local market. By controlling most flights in and out of a big city, they can charge a premium for fares and fight any incursions from competitors by flooding contested routes with frequent flights.
Several years ago, Northwest decided to drop National Airport outside Washington as one of its hubs after the airline determined that it was losing $25 million a year there. It shifted some of those resources to strengthen its hubs in Detroit, where its share of the local traffic has risen to more than 78 percent, and in Minneapolis, where its market share has grown to more than 84 percent. American dropped Raleigh-Durham, N.C.; San Jose, Calif., and Nashville in recent years from its network of hub airports, but built up service in Miami and Dallas-Fort Worth.
And Continental decided it could no longer compete with United for the Denver market and pulled out after prolonged losses that reached millions of dollars a month. Continental also killed its Continental Lite operation in 1995 after the experiment to introduce no-frills service to a number of Eastern cities racked up losses of more than $300 million.
As airlines have pulled back from their secondary hubs, they have turned increasingly to other airlines for marketing alliances as a way to expand their route networks, rather than trying to do it all themselves. Just this week, Continental and Delta announced that they would form such a partnership with Air France. American has also proposed a close collaboration with British Airways.
To hear airline executives tell it, traditional thinking about airline strategy is going the way of full meals in coach class.
"In our daily, weekly and monthly meetings, we don't talk about market share," said Gerald Greenwald, chairman of United Airlines' parent, the UAL Corporation, and one of several top executives who joined the airlines in recent years from other industries. "We first want to be sure that we are not losing money on the routes we fly, and only after meeting that test will we look at possibly buying planes."
And John H. Dasburg, chief executive of Northwest Airlines, who joined the airline in 1990 after working for a decade at the Marriott Corporation, said that if Northwest ended up with excess cash, "it would be returned to the shareholders rather than used to fund unprofitable growth."
Investors, too, have helped drive home the message that tight capacity and a stable industry are laudable goals. When United and American said a year ago that they were each in talks about possibly acquiring USAir, both their stocks sagged. While overall industry capacity might have remained the same, many industry analysts said that such an acquisition would have hurt their credit ratings and balance sheets.
And when United Airlines ordered more than $3 billion of new aircraft in August, the stock of its parent dropped on the news, even though United stressed at every opportunity that it intended to use the new aircraft to replace old planes, not to add new routes.
It isn't just the industry's new approach that is driving up profits, of course. The economy has pumped up demand for air travel. In addition, the Federal Government let the 10 percent excise tax on fares lapse for almost eight months this year, enabling the airlines to cut prices, thereby increasing demand and revenue.
The airlines have also cut costs. They ended their flat 10 percent commissions to travel agents, capping the payments at $50 for round-trip domestic tickets. (The industry recently paid $87 million to settle a lawsuit brought by travel agents, but managed to keep the ceiling.) Airlines are also heavily marketing electronic ticketing, which gives travelers a confirmation number rather than a ticket and saves processing costs.
Moreover, all big airlines now have computer software to help them maximize revenues. On each flight, there are typically a dozen categories of fares, including those for leisure and business travelers, as well as frequent fliers, and software has been available for years to help airlines analyze historical travel patterns on individual routes and determine how many seats to sell at each fare level. In recent years, Trans World Airlines, USAir, Continental and America West installed such software, thereby leveling the playing field with American and other airlines that already had the technology.
T.W.A. said it bought such a system last December so it could analyze better the 3.6 million fares it sets for its 300,000 flights a year. During the winter months from February to April, the airline said, the software helped to raise revenues by more than $1.5 million on just one route between its St. Louis hub and a warmer destination.
"The technology lets you squeeze a little more juice from the orange," said Marilyn Hoppe, senior vice president of marketing for T.W.A.
Passengers are getting squeezed in the process, and in more ways than one. American Express, for example, said the price of the average domestic one-way ticket sold by its travel agents rose 27 percent -- from $216 to $274 -- from December 1994 to last month.
And as any frequent flier knows, more planes have been packed.
"It's sardined in there," says Douglas T. Pearce, a businessman in Raleigh, N.C. Mr. Pearce says his last 20 flights were all more than 90 percent full. To cope with the crowding, he has learned to always lean in from aisle seats to avoid getting hit with all the large bags travelers lug on board.
"If the airlines are not making money now," he said, "they're never going to make it."
Low fares have not disappeared, however. Southwest Airlines continues to expand, sharply reducing fares in popular travel markets like Florida. Airlines like American, Northwest, Continental and USAir are also routinely offering deep discounts through the Internet for weekend travel. Traditional fare sales still make regular appearances.
BUT some of the lower-cost airlines -- whose growth has been cheered in recent years by travelers and the Transportation Department -- are having difficulty, in part because the Valujet crash on May 11 in the Florida Everglades made many travelers wary of flying on them. That was the main reason Nations Air cited for halting scheduled service a few weeks after the crash. And Kiwi International Air Lines suspended service on Tuesday, collapsing under the weight of a number of problems.
Investors in new airlines also appear to have grown skittish. The Transportation Department said that it received seven applications in the first five months of the year to start scheduled jet airlines. Since the Valujet crash, it has received only one.
Of course, the woes of smaller competitors can only help the bottom line of the big established carriers. And, given some other recent market trends, it is help they can use. The most disturbing development is the fuel-cost increase of more than $400 million in the third quarter, from the comparable period last year. That huge expense, combined with other factors including seasonal buying patterns, has depressed airline stocks in recent months. The Standard & Poor's index of airline stocks has fallen 21 percent since late May, for example, while the S.& P. 500 index has gone up about 5 percent.
Politicians also regularly single out the industry for additional taxes. When President Clinton proposed tax credits for college aid in June, for example, he said one way to help finance the program would be to raise the international airline departure tax by $10, to $16 a passenger. And security improvements at airports after the crash of T.W.A. Flight 800 in July have added to the industry's costs.
The industry remains vulnerable to disruptive consolidations. USAir may go searching for a buyer again, possibly setting off a round of consolidation, which history suggests would create more problems than it would solve.
ALSO, as airlines grow more profitable, unions typically want to be rewarded. Unions at United and Northwest that own large blocks of company stock are now negotiating for raises. "We definitely think we deserve a piece of the pie," said Paul Omodt, a spokesman for the division of the Air Line Pilots Association that represents Northwest pilots. "And we think Northwest can afford to pay us more."
Moreover, some analysts wonder whether the industry's new ways will last. They fear that as airline companies' cash hoards grow, the temptation to rush out and buy more planes will be too great, and the industry will binge again on steroids.
"Over the span of human events, people haven't learned very much," said James S. Beyer, who edits an industry newsletter for Avmark, an aviation consulting firm. "Airlines are feeling flush, and I don't think they will pay much attention to history."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Airlines Are Paying Down Debt..." shows value of debt and leases as a percentage of revenues for Northwest, Delta, United, and American, 1990-1996. (Source: Standard & Poor's); "...To Stop Boom-and-Bust Years..." shows annual percentage change in airline capacity. (Source: Paine Webber); "...And Improve Profits" shows net profits in 80's and 90's. (Source: ATA) (pg. 1); Graphs show earnings trends for United, Continental, Northwest, and America West Airlines. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets, Datastream, Knight-Ridder) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; CREDIT; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) AIRLINES (94%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (75%); AIRCRAFT MFG (75%); STEROIDS (75%); JET FUEL (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM FRANCISCO ANTHONY 'FRANK' LORENZO (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



474 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MIDTOWN;
Koreans Turn To Picketing Over High Rent

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
The protest held by the somber businessmen and women last Thursday may have looked like any other picketing, but it was culturally out of character for this group. "Korean people do not do this," said Cha Ok Kim, as 40 or so other members of the New York Society of Korean Businessmen marched and displayed signs with slogans like "We are Good for the Neighborhood! Don't Force Us to Leave!"
It was the group's first-ever protest over high rents in the Herald Square area. Korean immigrants and Korean-Americans are by far the largest ethnic group among the area's business owners. 
 The society contends that rents as high as $264 a square foot annually are rapidly driving Korean businesses out of the area. Of the 200 or so Korean-owned businesses in the Herald Square area, the group predicts that 50 or 60 may go bankrupt or move out by the end of the year.
Leslie Spira Lopez, executive vice president of Kew Management Corporation, one of the landlords contacted by the Korean group, said rents of more than $200 a square foot seemed unusually high and were likely market rents for the most desirable locations on Broadway, rather than on side streets. Rents for her company's 300 tenants in the area range from $50 to $70 a square foot, she said. "But this is a market that the Koreans largely made," she said. "It is their success that made this area."
The business group says the high rents are compounding a tough economic situation. Mr. Kim, for example, said he expected sales this year at his Dong Jin Trading Company at 1200 Broadway, near 29th Street, to drop to $2 million from $6 million seven years ago, while monthly rent for his 1,000-square-foot store, which sells clothing accessories, rose from $3,500 to $13,000 over the same period. He has decided to move, possibly to Hoboken, N.J.
The society chose to picket outside the officers of a major landlord, Mocal Enterprises, at 1182 Broadway, but said its protest was aimed at all landlords in the area. In a letter to the society dated July 24, Robert K. Tincher, president of Mocal, said that landlords' real-estate tax had risen more than 35 percent over the last three years, helping to drive up rents. Mr. Tincher refused repeated requests for comment last week. ANTHONY RAMIREZ

GRAPHIC: Photo: For Korean merchants, a protest march was culturally out of character. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOCAL ENTERPRISES (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RENTING AND LEASING; KOREAN-AMERICANS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (70%); RIOTS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); RETAILERS (68%); RETAIL PROPERTY (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (62%); ETHNICITY (55%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY ROBERT K TINCHER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



475 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING 

 BODY:

A NEW LOOK
Could This Be Archer Daniels?
It's hard to imagine a company's image doing such a flip-flop. So recently, Archer Daniels Midland seemed the very embodiment of corporate swagger -- a mighty giant with friends in every high place you could imagine. But look what happened in a single week: first it agreed to pay a staggering $100 million fine for fixing prices -- no company's ever paid remotely that much in such a case. Then Michael Andreas, the chairman's son, stepped down. And then -- hold onto your chairs for this one -- Dwayne Andreas, mighty Dwayne Andreas, actually apologized to shareholders at the annual meeting. His penance, though, probably came in the nick of time; as you can imagine, shareholders were in open revolt. So get used to it, if you can: a kindler, gentler (and poorer) Archer Daniels.
 
CORPORATE VOTERS
Logic? You Want Logic?
Why is it that corporate executives overwhelmingly vote Republican? Could it possibly be genetic? For while many groups might have legitimate gripes about Bill Clinton, you'd think most business types would be in hog heaven after four years of a Clinton Administration: stocks soaring, inflation down, all systems go. A new poll, in fact, shows that 9 of 10 top executives rate the economy "good," while fewer than half felt so positive four years ago. And who are executives going to vote for? You guessed it. Bob Dole has a 65-25 edge over Mr. Clinton.
 
STOCK MARKET
6,000. End of Story.
The Dow industrials hit 6,000 last week. Another milestone. They keep coming. Nothing else to be said.
 
TOBACCO WARS
Some Light on the Subject
In "Ashes to Ashes," his tobacco history, Richard Kluger tells a tale of a man who suspects his wife of infidelity. The husband watches from outside as a man enters the house and embraces his wife passionately. But then the bedroom lights go out, and the husband curses. Why? No proof. Mr. Kluger's parallel, of course: those who deny smoking's link to lung cancer for lack of scientific proof. Well, guess what: those bedroom lights just went on. Last week, the journal Science reported the first biological link to lung cancer. (The distinction: past evidence, though overwhelming, was mainly statistical.) Now in calmer times, people would certainly have the verbal fiber to avoid such terms, but one medical researcher couldn't resist calling this the "smoking gun." Tobacco companies facing lawsuits are no doubt a bit more worried.
 
BALANCING ACT
Work Now, Pay Later
"Deferred compensation" is all the rage these days. Yes, it's those baby boomers again -- it's always the baby boomers. They've realized with a jolt that America may be too broke to pay for that cuddly, care-free retirement -- so they'd better have part of their paychecks put aside for a sunny day. Earn now, pay taxes later. But what if the company with your nest egg cracks apart? Well, in a civilized world, those with modest nest eggs would get theirs first, while the bosses, who already have enough money to put 100 dinners on the family table forever, would take a hit -- especially considering that it's often the bosses who put a company under in the first place. So, that's in a civilized world. Back in the real world, it is -- you guessed it -- exactly the opposite. Somehow the bosses, with their millions, are made whole, while the rest must often sink or swim.
 
SOCIAL SECURITY
Take It While It Lasts
When kindly Uncle Sam (or Aunt Samantha, as the language police might prefer) hands out those yearly Social Security increases, it might seem like handing out jelly beans on the Titanic. In spite of politicians' ardent promises (forgive them; they're just trying to be elected), it's becoming clearer and clearer that Social Security is headed for one mean iceberg. But never mind that now: arrange the deck chairs, gaze at what the Government tells us is the latest inflation rate, and adjust the checks accordingly. The formula: take the official rise in consumer prices, Oct. 1 to Oct. 1, and raise payments that much on Jan. 1. Last week the magic number came in: 2.9 percent -- no big surprise. So the average check rises $21, to $745. And in 20 years? Keep your fingers crossed.
 
ENERGY
Playing With Fire
Even in the best of worlds, it's awfully dangerous to supply Americans' insatiable appetite for energy. Nuclear power's dangers are too frightening even to contemplate. But even natural gas needs to be sent swooshing through long pipelines and leaks can cause devastating explosions. That's in the best of worlds. Now suppose someone built a pipeline and willfully ignored all the rules -- leaving large rocks in the pipeline trench, say, increasing the chance of rupture. That's what New York State officials say was done by builders of the 370-mile Iroquois pipeline -- running from Canada through upstate New York and Connecticut to Long Island. Four pipeline officials have already pleaded guilty to misdemeanors, and the company paid $22 million in fines. But last week the stakes were raised, as three former supervisors on the project, completed in 1992, were indicted on felony charges of conspiring to violate Federal laws.
 
RAILROADS
Take a Ride on ... CSX?
In Monopoly, some fans insist, the railroads are best. Get them all, and keep raking in $200. A new Monopoly, though, would be a colorless affair, full of acronyms like CSX or mouthfuls like Burlington Northern Santa Fe. So what of the original four? The Pennsylvania, plus the New York Central, became Penn Central in 1968; the Reading, and others, came aboard in the 70's, forming Conrail. The B.& O., meanwhile, became part of the Chessie System, and then of CSX. And last week, as rail consolidation marched relentlessly on, they all came together, as Conrail and CSX agreed to an $8.4 billion merger. The line would nearly dominate (does the word "monopoly" come to mind?) freight routes east of the Mississippi, with 54,000 miles of track. But wait? What about Short Line? Don't be shocked, now: Parker Brothers. says it is a bus line.
 
SYMBOLS
The Little Alligator That Could
For its size, that little Lacoste alligator has to be one of the mightiest insignias ever. Why an alligator? Well, when Rene Lacoste was a tennis star back in the 20's (he beat Bill Tilden in the 1927 U.S. Open final), he was so tough he was known as the Crocodile. But no, that's not quite the same thing. And after he founded his shirt company, he remained puzzled by the alligator's vast, preppy success. "Suppose I had picked a rooster," he once mused. But Mr. Lacoste's business success by no means stopped there: he designed the first metal racquet (yes, it's true: long, long ago they were made of wood) for Wilson Sporting Goods in 1967. Clearly a busy life -- one that ended last weekend. Mr. Lacoste was 92.
 
EARNINGS SURPRISES
Apple's Shiny Profits
Numbers. They're everywhere. The business pages are littered with them. But do they always give a true picture? Uh, no comment. Here's an interesting case: Apple Computer reported a $25 million quarterly profit last week, stunning those gloomy souls who had predicted yet another loss. Great news, certainly, for Apple; the computer industry has been busily scouting grave sites for this humbled hotshot. But no sooner did Apple speak than analysts started sniping that it had orchestrated the results to make its future look rosy. It has solved only the "short-term issues," one said, not the "long-term challenges." Indeed, good numbers are crucial for Apple now, as the nation gears up (again? already?) for Christmas madness. Shoppers might hesitate to buy a computer from what is seen as a dying company. Doubters aside, though, those don't look like deathbed profits.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Take It While It Lasts" lists examples of average monthly Social Security benefits after the latest adjustments. (Source: Social Security Administration)
 
Graph: "Apple's Shiny Profits" shows Apple Computer's quarterly profits and losses, 1995 and 1996.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (94%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (94%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (94%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (94%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (94%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (94%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (94%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); MAMMALS (71%); PRICE FIXING (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (69%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); SMOKING (68%); LUNG CANCER (68%); CANCER (65%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: HERRING, HUBERT B BILL CLINTON (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



476 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

MONDAY
Mikhail Gorbachev addresses the Center for Western Studies in Sioux Falls, S.D.
 
Earnings reports are expected from Chevron, Exxon, Mobil, Texaco, Union Carbide and USAir.
 
TUESDAY
Earnings reports are expected from American Brands, Digital Equipment, Monsanto, Philip Morris, Shell Oil, Times Mirror and UAL, parent of United Airlines.
 
WEDNESDAY
Earnings reports are expected from Anheuser-Busch, Du Pont, and United Technologies.
 
THURSDAY
The Labor Department releases its weekly report on initial unemployment claims.
Earnings reports are expected from Delta Air Lines, Dow Chemical, Quaker Oats and Southwest Airlines.
 
FRIDAY
The Commerce Department reports on durable-goods orders for September. In August they fell 3.2 percent.
The National Association of Realtors reports on home resales for September.
Earnings reports are expected from America West, Kellogg and LTV.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (74%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); MON (NYSE) (58%); DOW (SWX) (57%); DOW (NYSE) (57%); DOW (LSE) (57%); 4850 (TSE) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); LUV (NYSE) (57%); UTX (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (74%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); MONSANTO CO (58%); SHELL OIL CO (58%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); AIRLINES (91%); REAL ESTATE (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); DURABLE GOODS (87%); CHEMICALS (87%); FACTORY ORDERS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); EXISTING HOME SALES (66%); 

PERSON: MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



477 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: A Risky New Role for Mexico's Army

 BODY:
Modern Mexico has an admirably strong tradition of civilian control over the military. Mexican generals, unlike those elsewhere in Latin America, neither plot for power nor challenge the orders of the elected Government.
But the multiple challenges that have shaken Mexico's political system in recent years have drawn the army deeply into civilian life. Troops have been called on to suppress guerrilla uprisings, the air force has been enlisted in the fight against drug cartels and army generals have been assigned to clean up corrupt local police forces. In the past two years, troop strength has been expanded by 15 percent to 180,000 and the military budget has grown by a corresponding amount. 
 The growing role of the military is disturbing, and it is a threat to President Ernesto Zedillo's efforts to deepen civilian democracy. Mr. Zedillo must take care to limit the military's role to cases of clear necessity, like battling guerrilla armies, and then he must make sure that constitutional rights are respected.
Military counterinsurgency campaigns are notoriously prone to human rights abuses. In Chiapas and other southern states where guerrillas have taken up arms, the military has been credibly accused of torture and summary executions in its hunt for insurgents.
It would be tragic if Mexico were to follow some of its neighbors down the path to military brutality and lawlessness. To avoid that possibility, President Ernesto Zedillo should establish clear ground rules for military treatment of civilians. Civilian courts should have final jurisdiction over cases of abusive military behavior toward citizens. Some accusations may lack merit or misrepresent the circumstances, but exonerations of military conduct will lack credibility if they come only from military courts.
The military's role in combating narcotics is limited and consists mainly of air force interception of drug flights. Washington, unwisely, would like to see this expanded. Previous Mexican administrations have resisted even this degree of military involvement, fearing it would sow corruption in the army just as it has in the federal police, the force officially responsible for drug fighting.
President Zedillo has also placed the army more deeply into day-to-day policing by bringing in a general to replace the civilian in charge of Mexico City's police department. Corrupt and ineffective police forces need reform, but bringing in the army general, who hired other officers to serve in top command positions, has unnecessarily added to the impression of expanding military power.
The peso devaluation crisis and sharp feuding in the ruling party got Mr. Zedillo's presidency off to a weak start. Although he has said that he wants the rule of law and governmental accountability to be the main themes of his administration, he has made himself dependent on unreformed politicians and institutions. To let the military become yet another unaccountable, independent power center would be a calamity for Mexico and would undermine Mr. Zedillo's, and Washington's, hopes for continued political and economic reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MILITARY ROLE IN POLITICS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY COURTS (78%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); TORTURE (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); DEVALUATION (60%); CARTELS (56%); 

PERSON: ZEDILLO, ERNESTO (PRES) ERNESTO ZEDILLO (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



478 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: New Bosnia Government Shows Few Signs of Life

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES 

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Oct. 19

 BODY:
While the nationwide elections last month did not promise a new heaven and a new earth, they at least promised a new Bosnia where ethnic Croats, Serbs and Muslims, who spent four years at war, would have a chance to work together to build a common government.
But a month after the elections, which were a pillar of the Dayton peace agreement, the landscape of the new Bosnia is depressingly familiar. The new Presidency and Parliament, intended by international mediators to unify Bosnia, are being boycotted by the Bosnian Serbs, who complain of a lack of security in Sarajevo. 
 There are renewed calls by the Bosnian Serb leadership to push ahead with plans to secede from Bosnia and merge with Serbia, and more muted ones by the Bosnian Croats about joining Croatia.
And despite repeated guarantees of free movement, refugees who have tried to return to villages that are in the hands of their enemies have, as usual, been stopped and forced back.
Senior Western diplomats, including Assistant Secretary of State John Kornblum, who will travel to Sarajevo next week, say they expect the rebuilding process to be difficult and bitter. But they say that despite the setbacks, it is too early to declare the new institutions dead.
"We all accept that we have to plod along and keep battling away," a senior Western diplomat said. "We don't consider this a lost cause. If this is where we are by the end of November, then we can say the peace plan is in serious difficulty."
December was the announced target date for pulling out American troops stationed in Bosnia as NATO peacekeepers. It now appears that some American troops will remain until March, and plans are being discussed to continue some sort of international presence for at least two years to prevent the resumption of fighting.
Although no one expected miracles from the elections, one hope was that they might help break down the ethnic partitioning of the country. But in fact the barriers sometimes appear stronger than before.
At least the three-member Presidency actually met once, for four and a half hours, after what one senior diplomat termed a "titanic effort." Then the Serbian member, Momcilo Krajisnik, boycotted the Presidency, effectively paralyzing it.
The full Parliament has never convened, and it does not appear that it will anytime soon. Many local legislatures have not been formed, because of squabbling between the Croats and Muslims over who gets which seats.
And the three ethnic nationalist leaders who make up the Presidency, now legitimized by the vote, still devote a great deal of time to propaganda while the economy stagnates.
"I have questions about the will of all three groups," said Carl Bildt, the chief international civilian representative here. He said many Muslims tended "to say this is business as usual -- this is our state."
"On the Serb and Croat side," Mr. Bildt said, "the tendency is to say: 'Why should we mingle with them? Let's develop our independent and autonomous structures.' "
Even the municipal elections planned for the end of November, after having been postponed once already, now may be put off until the spring or even next fall.
They were originally put off because of voter registration irregularities. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which supervised the September voting and is to do the same for the municipal elections, although the Bosnian Serbs say they refuse to permit the group to run the voting.
Robert Frowick, the retired American diplomat who heads the Bosnian mission of the European security organization, still says the November vote will go ahead. But his senior advisers, a few of whom resigned rather than orchestrate the vote, are nearly unanimous in opposing holding the election so soon.
Despite pressure from the White House, which does not want elections to delay the American troop withdrawal, senior European officials said they expected Mr. Frowick to agree to a delay eventually.
International mediators, in particular Mr. Bildt and Flavio Cotti, the Swiss official who is chairman of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, have been bickering publicly over who is responsible for the failure of Bosnia's joint institutions to convene.
Mr. Cotti, the Swiss Foreign Minister, in an Oct. 15 letter, pointedly reminded Mr. Bildt, who has criticized the European organization for failing to set up the institutions, that it was Mr. Bildt who had taken the initiative to convene the meetings of the Presidency and the elected Parliament.
"If I judge Cotti's letter right," Mr. Bildt said in an interview, "they don't accept that they have any responsibility for the consequences of the elections. This seems to me rather strange."
Mr. Bildt's office, in yet another sign of how dreary the political debate remains, has pulled the plug on broadcasts by the $10.3 million independent television station, promoted as one of the principal instruments to overcome the endemic nationalism in Bosnian Serb areas like Banja Luka.
The station, which was created and paid for by Western aid agencies to provide fair and objective information to all Bosnians, was first blocked by Bosnian Muslim officials, then welcomed as it became a forum for nightly diatribes against the Serbs. After the staff is purged, officials in Mr. Bildt's office said, they will try to begin broadcasts again.
The hope now is that the three members of the Presidency can be coaxed into the same room again, even if they fail to do anything substantial. Mr. Bildt says he expects a meeting to take place next week.
Mr. Krajisnik, who boycotted the Oct. 5 inauguration ceremony in Sarajevo where Alija Izetbegovic and Kresimir Zubak, the Muslim and Croatian members of the Presidency, swore allegiance to a united Bosnia, is expected to come under renewed pressure from Washington to cooperate.
The longer the nationalist leaders dither, the more the internal borders in Bosnia solidify and harden, which is what many fear that all three leaderships desire. And there is increasing concern that time is running out. Ambassadors must be chosen, the Presidency must be established in offices with a staff, the rules and procedures of the Presidency must be worked out and a cabinet must be chosen.
The candidates for the Cabinet are supposed to be presented for parliamentary confirmation by Oct. 30, a deadline that is unlikely to be met.
If the joint institutions do not begin to function, the Bosnian Muslims might decide to simply go it alone. Muslim leaders have already called for a deadline to be imposed on the Bosnian Serbs to join the common institutions and pledge allegiance to a united Bosnia.
But a decision by the Muslims to plow ahead without the Serbs would doom any attempt to create a unified state, which is the goal of the Dayton peace agreement.
"They have to get down to business on some of the foreign policy issues, where they have a joint responsibility," Mr. Bildt said. "Otherwise, the Bosnian side will go ahead and do things in the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, strictly speaking, they are not entitled to do. This will further aggravate the Serbs, effectively leading to a parting of the ways."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ethnic tensions are preventing Bosnia's new Government from functioning, and many refugees are still unable to return home. In Zivinice, northeast of Sarajevo, NATO soldiers gave Muslim refugees food and clothing. (Reuters)
 
Map of Bosnia showing the location of Sarajevo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); CROATIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA; CROATIA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); CROATIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); REFUGEES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS CARL BILDT (90%); FLAVIO COTTI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



479 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: The Secret Attack on Have-Nots

 BODY:
As Congress directly assaulted welfare programs, it also indirectly launched a piecemeal attack on the intricate set of subsidies built into health, retirement and education programs through which Americans who are financially well off take some responsibility for helping their less fortunate neighbors. In each of these spheres, Americans have typically operated in common pools, with some players paying more so that other, poorer players can pay less.
Republican leaders would allow Americans to leave the pools and purchase on their own. Sometimes, breaking the ties of cross-subsidies makes sense because they have become wasteful or unnecessary. In other cases, cross-subsidies must be reshaped as Congress deregulates a market. But what the Republican leaders have in mind is a world in which the Government asks preciously little from people other than to take care of themselves. 
 Most Americans buy health insurance through their employers in common insurance pools that include healthy and sick people alike. But Congress recently approved an experimental plan in which the Government would provide tax subsidies to people who want to drop out of the common pool and buy coverage on their own. The likely outcome is that only well-off, healthy people will choose these individual medical savings accounts. That would leave the chronically ill to fend for themselves and thereby eviscerate the notion of insurance.
Most Americans also use a common education "pool" -- the neighborhood public school system, which uses property taxes on expensive homes to underwrite schooling for those in more modest homes. Bob Dole and his colleagues want to move to a system of vouchers, which would allow people, in many cases those with the higher incomes, to drop out of the pool and take taxpayer money with them to help offset the cost of private-school tuition. The important point is that Congress can inject competition into education without destroying the common pool. It could limit student choice among schools to those within a public system, and focus help on the disadvantaged.
Social Security is a 1930's system that has put every worker in a common retirement pool. The system taps some of the payroll tax paid into the pool by higher-wage workers to beef up the benefits of lower-income retirees. The system has done an exquisite job of cutting poverty among the elderly. But some in Congress want to break the cross-subsidies, tying retirement benefits much more closely to a worker's payroll contributions. There are ways to put Social Security on a sounder financial basis -- for example, by having the Government invest revenues in private capital markets -- without ripping the safety net out from under poor retirees.
The breaking apart of common pools of citizenship is also occurring in the private economy. Until recently, and following Congressional policy, companies that provided pensions offered the same plan for rank and file workers and most executives. But, as a Times series last week showed, there is an ominous trend toward dropping pension coverage for all in favor of lucrative tax-subsidized plans for the highest-paid managers.
Cross-subsidies often become the road kill of an otherwise worthwhile push toward deregulation. But even in these cases, Congress is perfectly able to protect the needy. Under current Federal policy, fees for long-distance phone calls are set high to generate money for subsidizing local phone service for poor and rural families. But as Congress moves to deregulate phone service, long-distance prices will be forced down, eliminating the margin that now provides subsidies. In this case, however, Congress explicitly directed Federal regulators to provide the subsidies by some channel compatible with markets. That is all it took to get the best of both -- competition and subsidies.
But phone deregulation looks like the exception. Republican leaders in Congress want vouchers that threaten the viability of public schools, medical savings accounts that threaten to undermine affordable coverage for the chronically ill and Social Security schemes that threaten to bury a disproportionate number of the elderly in poverty. These indirect assaults on the needy are every bit as pernicious as the direct assault on welfare.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EDITORIALS; WELFARE (US); PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VOUCHERS; HEALTH INSURANCE; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); AGING (85%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); CORPORATE TAX (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); APPROVALS (53%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



480 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE CONSTITUENCIES;
Executives Are Afraid Of Power Shift To Democrats

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WILLIAMSBURG, Va., Oct. 19

 BODY:
Privately resigned to a re-election victory by President Clinton, chief executives of America's biggest companies are increasingly worried that Bob Dole will lose so badly that Republican control of Congress will be jeopardized.
Most of their concern involves the House, where most of the Democrats in line to head several important committees are from the party's most liberal wing. 
 "Maintaining a majority in the House is the most critical priority," said Edwin L. Artzt, chairman of the executive committee at the Procter & Gamble Company.
"If control of the House shifts," he added, "many of the reforms that business has been advocating will be stalled" and will probably give way to the agendas of Democrats.
Most of the score or so top executives interviewed during the semiannual meeting of the Business Council, which ended today in this restored 18th-century capital, expressed similar misgivings.
"It's important in terms of preventing any sort of super-regulatory zeal," declared Michael H. Jordan, chairman of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation. Lewis E. Platt, head of the Hewlett-Packard Company, said that he "would be concerned to see a Democratic takeover of the House" with "perhaps an unchecked" liberal agenda.
The Business Council, created in the 1930's to advise the Commerce Department, now serves as an independent forum for leaders of major companies. Members expressed a remarkable degree of theoretical as well as practical support for divided government -- Republicans in control of one branch of Government, with Democrats in control of the other. Even some Republican members of the Business Council said they were wary of having their own party controlling the White House and both chambers of Congress.
Some independents and Democrats here -- a distinct minority -- also said they preferred a division of power. John H. Bryan, head of the Sara Lee Corporation and an independent who has raised money for President Clinton, indicated that he would rather not see the Federal Government entirely in the hands of Democrats. "There are scary aspects to that," Mr. Bryan said.
And John L. Weinberg, senior chairman of Goldman, Sachs & Company, said flatly that "it would be bad for the country" if the Democrats took control of the House.
The practical concern, Business Council members said, is that Democratic control could result in a less friendly environment for business and that powerful committee heads would pursue social goals more ambitious than those of President Clinton or Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, now the minority leader. Members were dubious about Mr. Gephardt's assurance that he would lead a more centrist Democratic return to power.
Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York would stand to replace Representative Bill Archer, a Texas Republican, as head of the Ways and Means Committee, and Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, the longest-serving House member, would presumably take back the Commerce Committee. Mr. Dingell has already said he would like to reconsider legislation passed by the Republicans limiting exposure to stockholder suits.
Other threats to business interests, members said, would include Representative Henry B. Gonzales of Texas, who would probably take charge of the Banking and Financial Services Committee; Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, at the Judiciary Committee; Representative William L. Clay of Missouri, at the Economic and Educational Opportunities Committee; Representative James L. Oberstar of Minnesota, at the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, at Appropriations.
The business executives fear losing the House in spite of significant respect for the economic performance of President Clinton, particularly in promoting trade agreements. Indeed, Mr. Bryan of Sara Lee said Mr. Clinton had been more responsive to big business than any President since Lyndon B. Johnson.
"They all like Mr. Clinton," Mr. Bryan said of most of his Business Council colleagues, but "they all despise what he did on tort reform."
However, Mr. Jordan of Westinghouse, which is the target of 100,000 asbestos and other lawsuits, expressed hope that if Mr. Clinton won a second term, he "would be less beholden to the trial lawyers."
Should the Democrats retake the House, the business leaders say, they would need to rely on one last bastion. As Mr. Artzt said, "If the Senate stays Republican, maybe it won't be such a disaster."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: HSH (NYSE) (81%); HSH (LSE) (81%); PGP (PAR) (71%); PG (NYSE) (71%); CBS (NYSE) (69%); HPQ (NYSE) (68%); GS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311813 FROZEN CAKES, PIES & OTHER PASTRIES MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (81%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (81%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (71%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (71%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (71%); NAICS811118 OTHER AUTOMOTIVE MECHANICAL & ELECTRICAL REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (69%); SIC7539 AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (69%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (59%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS COUNCIL; HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) HILLSHIRE BRANDS CO (81%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (71%); WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CO LLC (69%); CBS CORP (69%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (68%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS COUNCIL; HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (59%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB; JORDAN, MICHAEL H; ARTZT, EDWIN L; HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR BILL CLINTON (91%); JOHN DINGELL (78%); MICHAEL H JORDAN (66%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



481 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3442 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
On Civil Rights, Clinton Steers Bumpy Course Between Right and Left

SERIES: THE CLINTON RECORD: Civil Rights

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 19

 BODY:
In his nearly four years in office, President Clinton has amassed a civil rights record rivaling that of any President in the last 30 years.
So why do so many civil rights advocates -- both liberal and conservative -- mistrust him so much? 
 Since he entered office in January 1993, Mr. Clinton has appointed more women and members of minorities to Cabinet and other high-level positions than any other President. He has appointed the highest percentage of minorities and women to the Federal bench.
He became the first President to back measures to end bias against homosexuals, he stepped up enforcement of fair housing laws, and he stoutly defended the Government's affirmative action role, declaring in a speech in July 1995 that his goal would be to "mend it, not end it."
"If you look at his overall record, both in the appointments he's made and the policies he's pursued," said Wade Henderson, executive director of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, a coalition of liberal organizations, "his record stands with the best of recent Presidents, with the possible exception of Lyndon Johnson."
But so tricky and polarizing are the politics of race and sex that the civil rights policies of the Clinton Administration have drawn praise and scorn in equal measure from liberals and conservatives.
With compelling evidence, conservatives say the Administration has pursued classically liberal policies, despite trying to portray itself as moderate. They note that the people Mr. Clinton appointed to enforce anti-discrimination laws came, by and large, from liberal organizations like the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the Mexican-American Legal Defense Fund and the National Women's Law Center.
They also say the Administration sought to expand the legal basis for affirmative action to include the need for a diverse work force, not just to remedy past discrimination.
And they point out that despite Mr. Clinton's promise to change any Federal affirmative action programs found ineffective or resulting in quotas, only one -- a Defense Department procurement program -- has been scuttled.
"Philosophically, I think they are straight, pro-preference liberals on these issues," said Linda Chavez, president of the Center for Equal Opportunity, a conservative group. "They interpret affirmative action to mean having double standards, having different rules according to race, with attention to the bottom line, according to numbers. There's not a whole lot of difference between the way the Clinton people enforce the law and the way the Carter people did."
But while conservatives complain that the Administration is too liberal on civil rights issues, liberal groups maintain that it has not been bold enough and is too willing to tack in the shifting winds.
They recall that Mr. Clinton quickly abandoned Lani Guinier, a law professor from Philadelphia who was his first choice to head the Justice Department's civil rights division, when her past writings drew fire from conservatives. They note that after the storm that followed his pledge to remove the ban on homosexuals in the military, the President put forward a policy that left the ban in place.
He delayed filling important civil rights posts, squandering what civil rights groups said had been an opportunity to undertake new initiatives while the Democrats controlled Congress. And he signed a welfare bill that civil rights advocates say will throw at least a million children into poverty.
Even Mr. Clinton's stand in defense of affirmative action, perhaps the defining civil rights moment of his Presidency, was taken with the knowledge that abandoning the policy would have meant a certain Presidential primary challenge from the Rev. Jesse Jackson.
"There is no question about it," Mr. Jackson said in a recent interview. "My position on it was quite public, and I stated it to him. I had no inclination to run. My choice was, rather, to support him. But if he had taken away that program for equal opportunity, he would have crossed the line."
Mr. Clinton's aides deny that the prospect of a Jackson challenge in the primary figured in the President's decision to support affirmative action. But that Mr. Jackson would make such a threat is indicative of what some critics regard as the President's primary failing: that he responds more to political considerations than to those of principle.
"There isn't the malevolence that there was in the Reagan Administration or the indifference that there was in the Bush Administration," said an official with a Hispanic organization who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "But there is a calculating approach to the issue that is principally politics driven."
Mr. Clinton has argued that he was seeking innovative ways to look at the divisive issues of race, ethnicity, class and sex. And in what could be read as a metaphor for his general approach to civil rights issues, Mr. Clinton, in the debate this week, touted the middle ground he had staked out on affirmative action.
"I'm against quotas -- I'm against giving anybody any kind of preference for something they're not qualified for," he said. "But, because I still believe that there is some discrimination and that not everybody has an opportunity to prove they are qualified, I favor the right kind of affirmative action."
In fact, as Mr. Clinton seeks another term, his advisers and leaders of some liberal groups would argue that his stand on affirmative action has shored up support for the policy and effectively removed the issue, and with it, race, from the Presidential campaign.
"A year ago, I thought affirmative action was going to be the ultimate wedge issue in this campaign," said Linda Williams, a political science professor at the University of Maryland. "It's just disappeared."
Mr. Clinton's advisers have no doubt about why. "I think that President Clinton deserves credit for that, both for what he did in 1992 and what he's done since," said George Stephanopoulos, a senior adviser to Mr. Clinton, in a recent interview at his office. "The way he's talked about civil rights issues has raised the bar for opponents."

The Expectations
 
 What They Heard, What They Saw
From the start, Bill Clinton seemed to be a different kind of politician when it came to civil rights issues.
From early childhood, when he watched his grandfather's respectful and courteous treatment of black patrons at his grocery store in Hope, Ark., Mr. Clinton has exhibited a comfort and ease in his personal dealings with members of minority groups, especially blacks. He has displayed, and almost flaunted, his familiarity with black culture, black music and black icons. He has looked at home in black churches, singing well-known African-American hymns by heart and even preaching with the cadence and idioms of a black Baptist minister.
Ernest Green, a black investment banker in Washington who has known Mr. Clinton for years, recalls a conversation with the President and a number of prominent blacks on Air Force One last January. At one point, Vernon E. Jordan, Mr. Clinton's close friend and confidant, remarked that the President was one of the few white people who knew by heart all three verses of "Lift Every Voice and Sing," a hymn often sung at civil rights gatherings and called the "Negro national anthem" by many blacks.
"I said, 'Mr. President, I beg to differ,' " Mr. Green said. " 'You are one of the few people, period, who know all three verses.' "
Yet as Mr. Clinton prepared to take office four years ago, both traditional civil rights groups and their conservative antagonists viewed the occasion with a mixture of hope and trepidation.
As a candidate, Mr. Clinton had criticized the civil rights record of his Republican predecessors George Bush and Ronald Reagan, who often seemed hostile or indifferent to civil rights issues. Mr. Clinton promised to push for proposals like legislation that would allow people to register to vote when they renewed their driver's licenses or applied for government benefits. He also promised to end discrimination against homosexuals, press for statehood for the District of Columbia and remove limits on the monetary damages women could win in sex-discrimination suits.
But if Mr. Clinton was expected to lead liberal civil rights groups out of the political and policy Sinai, there were indications that he might be an uncertain Moses. He had campaigned as a "new Democrat," one more moderate than the Democrats of old.
At times, he trumpeted his disagreements with groups like the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People or the National Organization for Women.
"Clinton spoke a language of racial moderation," said Will Marshall, director of the Progressive Policy Institute, a right-of-center Democratic research and advocacy organization. "He spoke of reciprocity -- rights and responsibilities -- rather than the language of grievance and entitlement."
In January 1992, a little more than three weeks before the New Hampshire primary, Mr. Clinton, then Governor of Arkansas, left the campaign trail and went home to approve the execution of Ricky Ray Rector, a black inmate who was mentally impaired, for killing a white police officer. On June 13, 1992, Mr. Clinton took the stage at the convention of the National Rainbow Coalition, Mr. Jackson's organization, and chastised Sister Souljah, a black rap artist, for flippantly suggesting that blacks take "a week and kill white people."
In the transition to the Presidency, Mr. Clinton criticized women's groups that were pressing him to appoint more women to his Cabinet, snapping at them for being "bean counters."
Such utterances were unusual coming from a Democrat and caused uneasy feelings among civil rights advocates.
"I think the black community felt they had invested heavily in Bill Clinton, had helped to elect him and had big expectations," said Milton Morris, senior vice president of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a research group. "But there also was some apprehension. This whole 'new Democrat' thing scared a lot of people."
Once elected, Mr. Clinton assembled a Cabinet that included four blacks, three women and two Hispanic men. Some, like Attorney General Janet Reno or Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown, were given jobs generally reserved for white men.
And of Mr. Clinton's 182 judicial appointees, 32 percent have been women, 20 percent black and 7 percent Hispanic, a far higher percentage than that of any other President. Those appointments could be critical in future policy questions, as Congress has tended to defer to the courts in the areas of affirmative action and gay rights.
Despite that record, however, it took the Administration nearly two years to fill important civil rights posts in the Administration. The pace, which contributed to the anxieties of civil rights groups, was a direct result of what they viewed as Mr. Clinton's disastrous handling of one of his earliest appointments, the nomination of Ms. Guinier to the top civil rights job in the Government.

The Appointments
 
Reverberations Of an Abandonment
 More than any other single event, the Guinier episode sent shock waves through traditional civil rights groups.
Ms. Guinier, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, had been a good friend of the President and his wife, Hillary. She had been a classmate of both at Yale law school, and they had attended her wedding on Martha's Vineyard in 1986. Moreover, she had built a reputation with the NAACP Legal Defense Fund as an innovative thinker in the area of voting rights. To many, she seemed a natural for the position of Assistant Attorney General for civil rights, considered the top civil rights position in the Federal Government.
But soon after her nomination was announced in May 1993, it began to run into trouble. In her writings, Ms. Guinier had suggested alternatives to the system of trying to guarantee blacks and other minorities representation by drawing gerrymandered districts in which blacks constituted a majority of voters.
But her proposals, including ideas like cumulative voting and proportional representation, were theories that went against the American idea of one-person-one-vote and majority rule. They were clearly outside the mainstream of American thought and were characterized by her conservative critics as dangerously radical.
Faced with strong opposition, even within his own party, Mr. Clinton withdrew Ms. Guinier's nomination a month later, declaring that if he had read her early writings, he would not have nominated her to the post. Moreover, the President jettisoned Ms. Guinier without letting her appear before the Senate Judiciary Committee, as her supporters had urged, to explain her views.
The decision enraged civil rights advocates and deepened their suspicion of Mr. Clinton. "There was a profound sense of betrayal in his unwillingness to stand with her and defend her as a reflection of what this Administration believed in," said one civil rights leader who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "We felt that this was a President who was not willing to put his reputation on the line, and you questioned whether he would be with you when the going got tough."
Mr. Stephanopoulos acknowledged that the White House had mishandled the Guinier nomination, primarily by not thoroughly reviewing her work before putting her name forward. The Presidential adviser also acknowledged that the episode had contributed to the unease with which many civil rights groups viewed the new Administration.
"I think it raised questions," he said. "I don't think that was fair, but I think it did."
The Guinier episode had other implications as well. Determined not to be burned again, the Administration carefully consulted with liberal organizations and with groups like the Congressional Black Caucus on its subsequent nominees for top civil rights positions. That resulted in a number of candidates being rejected and stretched out the process. It was not until Feb. 1, 1994, almost 14 months after the President took office, that Deval Patrick, a lawyer from Boston, got the job.
Other civil rights appointments were delayed as well, in part because the Administration -- despite Mr. Clinton's criticism of "bean counters" -- wanted to fill certain posts with representatives of particular racial or ethnic groups.
The Administration also had a difficult time agreeing on candidates with civil rights groups and the Black Caucus.
"The President's slow pace of appointments to key civil rights posts would prove damaging to hopes that momentum in civil rights enforcement would be established," the Citizens Commission on Civil Rights, a private watchdog group, wrote in 1994.
On Sept. 29, 1994, the Senate confirmed Gilbert Casellas as head of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the last major unfilled civil rights position in the Administration.
Five weeks later, the Republicans won control of both Houses of Congress. For most of the next year, the Administration was on the defensive.

The Defining Moment
 
On a Cautious Path, With the Court's Nod
 In an interview on a television talk show on Feb. 5, 1995, shortly after the new Congress convened, Bob Dole, who had become the Senate majority leader, was asked his views about a California ballot initiative that would declare that race or color could "not be a criteria for either discriminating against or granting preferential treatment to anyone."
After making some preliminary comments, Mr. Dole said, "Why did 62 percent of white males vote Republican in 1994? I think it's because of things like this, where sometimes the best-qualified person does not get the job because he or she may be of one color -- and I'm beginning to believe that may not be the way it should be in America."
The comments by Mr. Dole, widely considered at that time to be the front-runner for the Republican Presidential nomination, were the beginning of troubling news for supporters of affirmative action programs.
Senator Phil Gramm, a Texas Republican who was another contender for his party's Presidential nomination, had announced he would make opposition to racial and sex "preferences" a centerpiece of his campaign.
The voter initiative in California was gaining ground (it made the Nov. 5 ballot), suggesting strongly that affirmative action would be a major issue in the Presidential campaign in that vote-rich state. On Feb. 21, the House voted to abolish a set of tax breaks given to communications corporations that sold their companies to minorities.
Worried about the mounting legal and political challenges, Mr. Clinton called a group of House Democrats to the White House and told them the Administration would be conducting an "urgent review" of Federal affirmative action programs.
"It had become a hot thing in Republican politics," Mr. Stephanopoulos said. "The President said, 'I want to be able to defend the defensible, and in order to do that, I need the facts.' "
White House officials sought to assure minority and women's groups that the Administration would not abandon affirmative action programs. But liberal groups were not so sanguine.
"I think, in all candor, there were real questions of where this guy was going to come out on this critical issue," said Mr. Morris of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies. "There were people who had reason to believe here was another area where he might cave."
A spirited discussion broke out in the White House. On one side were those who felt the Administration should back away from race and sex-based affirmative action, either out of principle or to reach out to working-class white men. On the other were those urging the President to hold fast -- on principle and to avoid alienating the party's base among black and Hispanic voters and liberal and moderate women.
After a review that took five months, Mr. Clinton opted to defend affirmative action, declaring that the policy was needed to address "the systematic exclusion of individuals of talent on the basis of their gender or race." He said, however, that his Administration would review all programs to determine whether any used quotas, discriminated against whites or were continued when they were no longer necessary.
"When affirmative action is done right, it is flexible, it is fair, and it works," Mr. Clinton said in his July 1995 speech.
Administration officials proclaimed that Mr. Clinton had reached his decision out of principle; critics said it was political pandering. Amid the assertions, one major event does stand out.
On June 12, 1995, the Supreme Court, in a 5-to-4 ruling in a case called Adarand Constructors v. Pena, upheld Federal affirmative action programs but said steps had to be taken to insure that programs were justified and that their implementation did not run roughshod over the rights of whites.
While civil rights groups initially bemoaned the High Court's decision, it soon became clear that the decision carried an enormous political silver lining for the Administration.
In effect, the Justices had said, mend it but don't end it. As a result, the decision allowed the Administration to modify affirmative action programs in ways that pre-empted the criticisms raised by Republicans while fending off liberals by saying that changes were mandated by the Court.
"It set the outer bounds," Mr. Stephanopoulos said, "because it was harder for the opponents of affirmative action to argue with doing away with it when a conservative Supreme Court had not ruled it illegal."
It was, some political analysts say, the defining moment of Mr. Clinton's Presidency in the civil rights area, and it knocked the pins out from under his opponents. Outflanked by Mr. Clinton, the Republicans, especially Mr. Dole, backed away from the affirmative action issue.
Though Mr. Dole introduced legislation in the Senate to gut Federal affirmative action programs, he never pressed it, and the 104th Congress ended last month without having enacted any broad-based ban on Federal "preference" programs.
"As the President demonstrated in affirmative action, just the use of the bully pulpit can change the debate," said Charles Kamasaki, senior vice president with the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy group. "We were in a free fall on affirmative action until the time the President made his speech. And almost since that time, from a policy perspective, the Republicans have been on the defensive."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Civil rights issues have proved tricky for President Clinton, whose policies have drawn criticism from both conservatives and liberals. Mr. Clinton has spoken often about the topic, as he did in a speech on affirmative action in 1995 at the National Archives. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "FOR THE RECORD: What Became of Campaign Promises" The following are promises in the civil rights area that President Clinton made as a candidate in 1992 and how the issue was resolved during his first term.
 
Support the Equal Rights Amendment and work hard to ensure its passage:
 
(Did not pass)
 
Support general civil rights legislation for gays and lesbians.
 
Did not pass.)
 
Lift caps on damage awards in sex discrimination cases.
 
(Did not pass)
 
Work to pass the Motor-Voter bill. (Passed)
 
Support statehood for the District of Columbian. (Did not pass.)
 
Require every employer to spend 1.5 per cent of payroll for continuing education and training. (Did not pass)
 
Expand Earned Income Tax Credit. (passed)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (68%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS; ELECTION ISSUES; BLACKS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; WOMEN; HOMOSEXUALITY; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION ; DISCRIMINATION; COURTS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES CIVIL RIGHTS (97%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (93%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); RACE & RACISM (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (72%); LABOR FORCE (71%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); EVIDENCE (65%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GUINIER, LANI; HOLMES, STEVEN A BILL CLINTON (94%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



482 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: STATE BY STATE -- CALIFORNIA;
Focus Shifts To Contests In the House

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 18

 BODY:
When Mayor Willie Brown of San Francisco, the wily survivor of dozens of electoral contests, heard the other day that Bob Dole had decided to campaign extensively in California despite the long odds against him here, he knew it could mean only one thing.
"They've decided," he said, "that the best they can do now is concentrate their resources on the House races to save as many seats as they possibly can." 
 Coming as it does from a Democrat, Mr. Brown's assessment of Republican strategy might be suspect. But in fact it is echoed -- off the record -- by politicians of both parties across the state. California's 54 electoral votes may no longer be in play, but another bonanza remains available: at least 10 of the state's 52 House seats are up for grabs.
The Democrats need to score a net gain of 18 seats nationwide to wrest control of the House from the Republicans, and they could conceivably achieve a quarter of that here.
From the enormous 1st District, which touches Oregon, to the compact 49th, whose southern boundary reaches the Mexican border, candidates are pouring millions of dollars into hard-fought battles for six Republican districts, including one where the incumbent is retiring, and four Democratic seats, also including an open district. No other state has so many close races this year.
Two nationally known California legislators face possible defeat. Representative Vic Fazio, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, is endangered for the third-straight election, this time by Tim LeFever, who lost by only 7,000 votes in 1994 though he was outspent 8 to 1. And Representative Robert K. Dornan, the belligerent Orange County conservative who briefly ran for President, faces a surprisingly stiff struggle against Loretta Sanchez, a Democrat.
President Clinton's big lead in California, if maintained, will inevitably tip more of the battles to the Democrats than might otherwise be the case, although the effect of Presidential strength on House races is debated.
For weeks, Speaker Newt Gingrich, who has two of his freshman loyalists fighting for their political lives in this state, has been emphasizing the importance of California to continued Republican control of the House. On a recent visit, he said his party could experience anything from a three-seat gain to a four-seat loss, depending largely on the outcome of the Presidential race.
"Two weeks ago, I would have said there won't be much of a change, we would come out pretty close to the 26-26 we have now," said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe of the Claremont Center for Politics and Economics. "Now it looks as if the Democrats should gain seats."
How many? No one much wants to predict, although it now appears that some Democratic representatives who had seemed in jeopardy are a bit safer.
Mr. Dole's ability to help his fellow Republicans is questionable.
Representative Brian P. Bilbray of San Diego, a keen backer of the Contract With America two years ago, is stressing his independence in his television commercials this year, arguing that he has opposed Republican extremists as often as he has clashed with the Clinton Administration. He did not appear at Mr. Dole's side when the Republican nominee held a San Diego rally this week.
Mr. Bilbray, who defeated Representative Lynn Schenk by fewer than 5,000 votes in 1994, faces a less formidable candidate this time in Peter Navarro, who has not only run unsuccessfully for other offices three times in recent years but taken positions in the process that are liberal for San Diego standards.
But no discernible Republican tide is running this year, and Mr. Navarro, a highly combative campaigner, is doing his best to link the incumbent to his party's unpopular leadership, referring to him as "Newt Bilbray."
Representative Jane Harman, a wealthy Democrat whose district runs south from the beach houses of Venice to San Pedro, the container port of Los Angeles, said this week she would welcome anything Mr. Dole did to intensify the Presidential battle because it would stimulate interest and maybe turnout.
"I almost lost last time because so many Democratic voters stayed home," she said. "There were 63,000 fewer votes cast in 1994 than in '92."
Ms. Harman won by 812 votes in a district that leans Republican. Her 1994 opponent, Susan Brooks, a former Mayor of Rancho Palos Verdes, a handsome suburb on a peninsula jutting into the Pacific, is trying again, attacking Ms. Harman as a Washington insider, but she trails in the polls and in raising money.
Kevin Phillips, the Republican analyst in Washington, has suggested that a Clinton victory by 9 or 10 percentage points, about what some in the President's camp anticipate, would put continued Republican control of the House in doubt. Such a margin might produce a Democratic gain of three or four seats here.
A computer model built by Professor James Campbell of Louisiana State University, taking into account all the elections since 1900, shows that Presidents' parties gain an average of two and a half to three seats for each percentage point above 50 percent -- based on the voting for the two major parties -- attained by the Presidential nominee.
"This year, it should be more because the Democrats did so badly in the House last time," he said in a phone interview this week. "It's easier to add to a low base. I'm showing a Clinton win with 58 percent of the two-party vote, which would produce a very slight Democratic majority in the House."
Models do not always work, of course; ticket-splitting of major proportions gave the Democrats a gain of three seats in 1988 despite George Bush's victory and gave the Republicans a gain of 10 seats in Mr. Clinton's year, 1992.
Some analysts believe that in recent years, some voters have consciously voted for one party for President and the other for Congress as a check on government excess. In a recent Field Poll here in California, nearly a third of the respondents said that government ran better when power was divided.
Typical of the intensity of this year's contests is the donnybrook in the First District, the sprawling northern expanse that includes the wine counties of Napa and Sonoma, the great redwood groves, Travis Air Force Base, lumber towns and the encampments of the counterculture in scenic Mendocino County. Representative Frank D. Riggs, a Republican who won there in 1990, lost in 1992 and won again in 1994, only hints at its complexity when he notes that everyone in the district loves trees but that some like them vertical and some like them horizontal.
This year, Mr. Riggs is being pushed hard by Michela Alioto, granddaughter of a San Francisco Mayor and herself a former aide to Vice President Al Gore. Mr. Riggs is trying to paint her as too liberal. He is one of three California Republicans -- Mr. LeFever and Representative Andrea Seastrand, an unapologetic Gingrich acolyte from Santa Barbara, are the others -- who are running commercials linking their rivals, opponents of capital punishment, to Richard Allen Davis, the convicted killer of a 12-year-old California girl, Polly Klaas.
"This is a contentious area," said Ms. Alioto, 28, who would be the youngest woman to serve in Congress. She added, "I'm trying hard to persuade people that you have to find common ground, find a way to save jobs and trees as well."
The Alioto-Riggs race and Ms. Seastrand's rematch with Walter Capps, a liberal professor of religious studies, which may offer the starkest ideological contrast in the country, are considered dead even. The contests in the two open districts, those of retiring Representatives Carlos J. Moorhead, a Republican, and Tony Beilenson, a Democrat, also remain competitive. Brad Sherman, the Democratic nominee in the Beilenson district, has prompted smiles, if not a surge of support, by handing out "Sherman for Congress" combs. He is bald.
Representative George E. Brown Jr., a Democrat in a district in the Inland Empire east of Los Angeles, has survived challenges for decades, and he faces another. At 76, he is three years older than Mr. Dole.
Two well-financed Democratic contenders showing unexpected strength are Ellen Tauscher, a onetime Wall Street investment banker who calls herself a fiscal conservative, and Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Dornan's opponent. The man Ms. Tauscher is trying to oust from his district on the east side of the San Francisco Bay, Representative Bill Baker, accuses her of trying to buy the election; she responds, an aide conceded, "by spending even more of her own money" to run television commercials attacking him on abortion, gun control and the environment.
Mr. Dornan took 57 percent of the vote in 1994. But his Presidential race, widely seen as quixotic, has hurt his fund-raising, and Mr. Dornan is "running on fumes at this point," one conservative ally in Congress said.
One of his problems is the changing nature of Orange County, a longtime conservative bastion that was once the homeland of the John Birch Society; Mr. Clinton campaigned there this week. It is no longer white and middle class; Mr. Dornan's district is now more than 50 percent Hispanic and 12 percent Asian.
Asian-American voters have been strong backers of the man they call "B-1 Bob" for his support of the military, but many of them have been alienated in the last two years by the anti-immigrant campaigning of Republican politicians, including Gov. Pete Wilson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US) ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; DOLE, BOB; BROWN, WILLIE L JR (MAYOR); FAZIO, VIC (REPR); DORNAN, ROBERT K (REPR) BILL CLINTON (72%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); LORETTA SANCHEZ (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



483 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1833 words

HEADLINE: Family Tied to Democratic Party Funds Built an Indonesian Empire

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: LIPPO VILLAGE, Indonesia, Oct. 18

 BODY:
This flashy new community on the edge of the capital city of Jakarta, with its malls, golf courses and roller coaster, is a monument to the rags-to-riches story of one of Asia's most successful family conglomerates, the $12 billion banking, real estate and insurance empire controlled by Mochtar Riady and his sons.
Anchored by huge outlets for Wal-Mart and J.C. Penney, Lippo Village has an elite English-language high school and basketball hoops at almost every home. It is a testament to the Riadys' fascination with America -- a country where they have suddenly found themselves at the center of a political uproar. 
 As the American election campaign moves toward its conclusion, Republicans are raising questions about nearly $1 million in Democratic Party contributions tied to the Riady family, suggesting that the donations influenced Washington's Indonesia policies. The Clinton Administration denies that Indonesia or the Riadys' interests reaped any special benefits.
The rise of the Riadys in less than four decades is seen in a familiar context here in Indonesia. Theirs is the story of Chinese immigrants who made good, and of a culture in which handshakes and favors traded over cups of tea combine with entrepreneurial vision to build financial empires.
In assembling their array of inter-locking real estate, insurance, financial and banking concerns, the Riady family cultivated alliances with other Asian business magnates, some of whom are also ethnic Chinese. Their flagship company, Lippo Group -- the name is taken from the Chinese words for "strength" and "treasure" -- is by some reckonings Indonesia's sixth-largest conglomerate; it employs more than 25,000 people across Asia in more than 100 companies.
The Riadys' plans for expanding their businesses in China give them a keen interest in the climate of relations between Washington and Beijing. Although the family has few holdings in the United States, it has been active in cultural and political exchanges and was among the founders of the United States-Indonesia Society, which has sponsored Congressional visits to Indonesia.
"Lippo has long nurtured relations in a part of a world where relationships are virtually everything," said Frank G. Zarb, chairman of Alexander & Alexander Services, a major American insurance broker that has run joint ventures in China and Asia with the Lippo Group. "Their network includes the highest and most senior people in the Asia region."

Knowing the Value Of Happy Friends
 The Riadys, according to several business executives with long experience in Indonesia, are successful in part because they are personally generous and attentive. "The whole concept of gift-giving in Asia is something that we Americans often misunderstand," said an American businessman who has worked in the region for nearly 20 years and has had dealings with the family.
"Gift-giving is not seen as corruption or bribery," said the man, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "You are not trying specifically to get something today or tomorrow. But sometime in the future, perhaps, you are going to need to call on your friends for assistance, and one way to build friendship is by gift-giving."
The paths of the Asian conglomerate and the Democratic Party first crossed in the late 1970's in Arkansas, where one of Mochtar Riady's three Western-educated sons, James, took a job as a banker and met a rising star named Bill Clinton. James Riady was among the hundreds of business people with ties to Arkansas who contributed to Mr. Clinton's 1992 Presidential campaign.
In this year's campaign, a former Lippo Group official who worked as a fund-raiser at the Democratic National Committee arranged for a South Korean company to make a $250,000 contribution to the party. The gift violated the Federal ban on foreign political contributions and was returned after The Los Angeles Times reported as much. On Friday, the Democratic National Committee suspended the fund-raising efforts of the former Lippo official, John Huang, saying it would ask Federal election officials to investigate whether he had solicited any improper donations.
Republicans are also questioning the origins of $450,000 contributed to the Democratic Party by a landscape architect who is the son-in-law of Hasjim Ning, a longtime partner of the Riadys who died last year.
It remains unclear whether the Riady family got any special consideration from the Clinton Administration. But one businessman with close ties to the Lippo Group, who insisted on anonymity, said the contributions seemed to be money well spent, if only because they raised Mr. Riady's standing among leaders at home, who might see him as a friend of the American President.
"James told me he prepared a paper for Clinton on China and Indonesia policy," the businessman said. "He thinks he is an adviser for Clinton on China and Indonesia policy. He may just be boasting. But you gain influence with the No. 1 man here by having contacts with the No. 1 man in the United States. It is intangible, but there are ways to make the intangible become tangible."
Here in Indonesia, James Riady, 39, has come under fire on two fronts: his fellow ethnic Chinese businessmen find him too brash and Americanized, and some fellow countrymen question the patriotism of ethnic Chinese conglomerates that do much of their business abroad.
The accusations have put him in the odd position of representing to Americans a symbol of perceived Asian financial machinations while representing to his countrymen an uncomfortably Western outlook.
The mighty Lippo Group traces its beginnings to the moment when Mochtar Riady, the son of immigrant Chinese parents in Surabaya, eastern Java, traveled to Jakarta in 1959 and found work in a bicycle shop. Later, he took a job at a bank owned by his wife's family.
He faced daunting obstacles. As an ethnic Chinese in predominantly Muslim Indonesia, he belonged to a group long regarded with suspicion.
Although they make up less than 5 percent of the population, Chinese immigrants and their progeny control 60 percent of Indonesia's wealth. This is a tribute to their ingenuity in the face of unusual cultural oppression.
When the Dutch relinquished colonial rule in 1949, most Chinese were held in suspicion by the Muslim majority. Despite this, the elite Chinese families continued to thrive. Then, in 1965, after a failed coup, the military attributed the troubles to a purported Communist-backed rebellion and began a six-month purge in which thousands of Indonesians were killed, including ethnic Chinese vilified for supposed links to Mao's China. Repressive cultural laws were enacted. Chinese-language schools were closed, Chinese signs were banned and ethnic Chinese were pressured to change their names to Indonesian ones.

A Dynamic Force, By Any Name
 Mochtar Riady shed his name, Lie Mo Tie, and forged ahead. His son Lie Zen was renamed James.
In the early 1970's, Mochtar Riady developed a business alliance that would forever change his life. The dean of Chinese entrepreneurs, Liem Sioe Liong, took him on as a senior official with Bank Central Asia, which Mr. Riady helped expand into Indonesia's fifth-largest bank.
In 1982, the elder Mr. Riady joined forces with Mr. Ning, another wealthy Indonesian, to create what would later become Lippo Bank. Mr. Liem helped arrange the financing.
The opening of China in the 1980's offered new opportunities to ethnic Chinese business people like the Riadys. Ties to China, which had once been viewed with suspicion, became a passport to greater wealth and respectability, and the Riadys opened a new business front, focusing on the patriarch's native province of Fujian.
The Lippo Group has about 10 projects in China, one company executive says, including land development, a bank, plate-glass and light-bulb factories, and plans to build two power plants. But its Chinese operations remain small compared with its financial, insurance and real estate projects in Hong Kong, Singapore and elsewhere in Asia.
During the past year, business analysts have warned that the Lippo Group may have overextended itself, particularly in real estate ventures like Lippo Village. Many of the village's residential properties remain unsold, and its retail outlets face strong competition in the rapidly developing Jakarta area.
This fall the company announced a restructuring plan to raise cash by integrating its banking, life insurance and securities operations.
As he undertook Lippo's Asian expansion, Mochtar Riady began grooming his three sons to join the business. Stephen, Andrew and James pursued Western-style higher education. James, the son who would forge American ties, studied accounting and economics at the University of Melbourne in Australia.
After his work in Arkansas as a banker, James Riady returned to Indonesia eager to shake up traditional business practices.

Western Training, American Influences
 In America, he told an interviewer last year: "I saw businesses expand and succeed. As soon as I returned to Indonesia I attempted to put these things into practice. Then I compared: here, there's a philosophy that if the sun goes down, we are confident that it will appear the following day. I think this is a concept we have to leave behind."
He continued: "I was aware that when I joined Lippo, the way of people's thinking was already fixed. How could I change their thinking? That was the challenge. Lippo itself has become an institution of entrepreneurship."
This business approach has a social, even an evangelical, aspect that breaks from the conservative traditions of Chinese business. James Riady is a born-again Christian, and employees are encouraged to attend retreats during which they proclaim allegiance to Jesus. One former employee said workers who converted were more likely to be promoted.
As James Riady's political donations have made headlines in recent days both in the United States and here at home, the normally garrulous Mr. Riady has avoided the press. He did not respond to repeated requests for an interview this week.
His donations to the Democrats have prompted some critics in Indonesia to question his patriotism.
"We should not close our eyes to the fact conglomerates actually live off the exhausted labor of the people," said the daily Merdeka this week, quoting Amien Rais, the leader of an influential Muslim group. "They apply their vacuum pumps to the state banks and remove our national wealth. Of course, everything has to be returned to the nation."
Even at the Lippo Supermall, some expressed outrage.
"I don't like that guy -- I'm serious," said a 24-year-old accounting student who refused to give his name. "If you want to be patriotic, why don't you give it to your own people? We don't like the way he's helping Clinton in the election. The first time I read that story I thought, 'What the heck is this? Almost a million dollars?' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Riady family's American ties are evident in their mall in Indonesia. A salesman worked at their Lippo Group's real estate booth. (Seth Mydans/The New York Times)
 
Map of Indonesia showing the location of Lippo Village.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: 3333 (HKSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (91%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (91%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (91%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (96%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (55%); 

COMPANY: LIPPO GROUP EVERGRANDE REAL ESTATE GROUP LTD (91%); ALEXANDER & ALEXANDER SERVICES INC (52%); LIPPO GROUP (85%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIPPO GROUP LIPPO GROUP (85%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (96%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; CHINESE ABROAD; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 ; FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); INSURANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (73%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (72%); TRENDS (72%); BASKETBALL (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: RIADY FAMILY; MYDANS, SETH; RIADY, JAMES; RIADY, MOCHTAR ; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



484 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Winning Formula: Location, Location, Connections

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Oct. 19

 BODY:
In the sprawling financial empire of the Riady family, one of the big-ticket items is an enormous, $700 million power plant being planned in Fujian Province on China's southeastern coast.
The project has several distinguishing signs that mark the way the Riadys, like many ethnic Chinese families, do business when they come back to China: choose a location where they know local officials, use partners they are familiar with, and take financial risks that a Western bank might choose to avoid. 
 By working the system, and mixing friends and business into an indistinguishable pot, these businessmen find that the risk often yields some reward. In the Fujian power plant, they won the right to operate the first wholly foreign-owned power plant in China, so that they can avoid directly sharing profits with local officials.
Their main partner, a Lippo executive said, is Mission Energy, the California-based giant that cooperated with the Lippo Group, the Riadys' flagship company, in a power plant in Indonesia.
Mission Energy executives had been interested in entering the China market, but winning official approval for power projects, which are tightly controlled by Beijing, has been excruciatingly slow in recent years. Yet the Riadys went to their ancestral home, Fujian, where they know provincial officials, and made it happen.
"It's classic Riady," said a Hong Kong-based lawyer involved in the project. "They're not power guys, they're the finance guys. But they found an opportunity and made it happen, and now it's setting a new precedent."
Associates say mixing friends and business and playing up local ties is how the Riady family does business, whether in Jakarta or Little Rock, Ark., or Fujian. They are also prepared to take some chances.
"Lippo brings more flexible standards to the table," said Melissa Brown, a power-industry analyst at J. P. Morgan in Hong Kong. When it comes to power plants, "they will take a level of contractual risk that Western banks are not willing to," she continued.
The Riadys and other overseas Chinese businessmen may seem to have an incalculable edge in language, culture and business style over American companies trying to figure out how to enter the China market.
Yet, in the end, they are still limited by the same political and economic uncertainties and problems facing any business executives. And they seem to fall victim to some of the same oversized dreams as Western business owners as well.
In 1993-94, for example, Lippo went into real-estate projects in half a dozen Chinese cities as that market boomed. When it became clear that overbuilding had brought a glut to the market, they stepped back. And the power plant project in Fujian has yet to receive final approval from authorities in Beijing.
"Many of our Chinese investments have been curtailed," said John Muncey, a senior executive at the Lippo Group in Hong Kong. "There have been problems in terms of overinflated expectations. We've decided it'd be better to redeploy to other countries in Asia."
But the Riadys' longer-term aim in China is clear.
"No Asian company can be truly regional if they're not in mainland China," James Riady told Reuters in September.
In 1993, Mochtar Riady, the family patriarch, said he planned to invest $10 billion over 10 years in a plan to develop a port, industrial park and resort complex complete with a golf course on Meizhou Island in Fujian Province, near where Mr. Riady's father was born and raised before emigrating to Indonesia.
Many Taiwanese visit the island to see a shrine of a sea goddess, and optimism that mainland China and Taiwan would allow direct flights to Fujian -- rather than forcing Taiwan residents to travel through Hong Kong -- fueled hope that such a resort would boom. As it turned out, relations between the mainland and Taiwan have been rocky during the last two years, and direct flights remain a dream.
"That project is still on the cards, but it's not going forward yet," Mr. Muncey said. "It depends on what happens with Taiwan."
Many Western companies that come to China open a large office in Beijing, the capital, so they can develop relations with Government officials. In contrast, the Lippo Group has only a two-member operation in the capital and is working on a real-estate development that has yet to start construction.
"They follow a pattern: prominent Chinese partners, managers from Hong Kong or Taiwan, and an environment they are familiar with," said an American consultant who has worked with Stephen Riady, the younger son of Mochtar and superviser of China business. "It doesn't always work, because business in China doesn't always work. But that's how they like to do it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: WSBK (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); INDONESIA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (90%); FUJIAN, CHINA (90%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (68%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (55%); 

COMPANY: LIPPO GROUP; MISSION ENERGY FLAGSHIP CO LTD (69%); LIPPO GROUP (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIPPO GROUP; MISSION ENERGY LIPPO GROUP (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; FUJIAN PROVINCE (CHINA); INDONESIA; CHINA (99%); INDONESIA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH CHINA (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (90%); FUJIAN, CHINA (90%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (68%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; CHINESE ABROAD ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH; RIADY FAMILY MOCHTAR RIADY (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



485 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: A Hard Fought Race That's Costing Millions

SERIES: THE RACE FOR CONGRESS '96: New Jersey's Eighth District

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

DATELINE: TOTOWA, N.J., Oct. 17

 BODY:
At first, the retired garment workers gathered at American Legion Post No. 227 seemed unimpressed. Mayor William J. Pascrell Jr. of Paterson had stopped by to give a speech, and as he patted shoulders and pumped hands, the response was tepid.
But when Mr. Pascrell began tossing out reasons why he deserved a seat in the United States House of Representatives, the audience perked up. Taxes were out of control, he said, and he wanted to give New Jersey's working class a break. The future of Medicare was at stake, he said, and he could help rescue it. If Newt Gingrich and other Republicans continued to control Congress, Mr. Pascrell warned, even Social Security would be jeopardized. 
 "You paid into Social Security!" he said, as the garment workers murmured and clapped. "Think where so many seniors would be without those few dimes that come in every month."
It was a typical speech for Mr. Pascrell, a Democrat who is trying to unseat Representative William J. Martini in New Jersey's Eighth District, which includes parts of Passaic and Essex counties in the state's northeastern region. Like Democratic candidates everywhere, Mr. Pascrell, 59, is hoping to oust a freshman Republican by tying him to Mr. Gingrich and the Contract With America, whose agenda, he says, is too conservative for residents of northern New Jersey.
And like freshman Republicans everywhere, Mr. Martini, 49, is insisting that he is no Gingrich clone.
But in an unpredictable district that is equal parts urban and suburban, with large immigrant and elderly populations, Mr. Martini is believed to be a vulnerable incumbent. He is the district's first Republican Congressman since 1961, and he has voted with his party 80 percent of the time, a record that the Democrats hope will hurt his standing with the large number of independent voters here. Because Mr. Martini won in 1994 with only 49.9 percent of the vote, the race is receiving special attention from the national Democratic Party, which needs 18 seats to win back control of the House.
The fact that his opponent is the popular Mayor of Paterson and a five-term state Assemblyman does not help Mr. Martini, either.
"You have a lot of senior citizens in this district, and beleaguered members of the middle class," said David Rebovich, a political science professor at Rider University. "It's going to come down to whether they believe Martini's claim that he, the Republican, remains committed to deficit reduction and tax cuts but will not support social policies injurious to some of his constituent groups."
Mr. Martini, it seems, will be trying to convince voters of that claim up to the last minute, in a Congressional race that has turned out to be the tightest and most expensive in New Jersey. He is on the campaign trail almost every day, countering Mr. Pascrell's charge that he is a "Gingrich puppet."
In speeches, Mr. Martini trumpets that the Republican Congress has reduced government spending by $53 billion. He says he is proud of the recent welfare bill, and of his leadership in the new legislation that will provide $17.5 million in Federal funds to help preserve Sterling Forest, an important watershed on the New York-New Jersey border.
"I really was troubled by excessive spending beyond our means, and I took the hard line on that," said Mr. Martini, a former Federal and county prosecutor who ran his own law practice before he went to Washington. "On other issues, I took a moderate position. I sense the things I voted for and stood for are the priorities and values of almost all the 21 towns in this district."
Time and again, Mr. Pascrell has asserted that Mr. Martini has betrayed the district, especially residents who are elderly and those who live in urban areas like Paterson, whose population is mostly black and Hispanic. He says he supports changes in the welfare laws, but he also wants to see more government support for anti-crime programs, like community policing. And he rails against the Republican proposal for Medicare, which would reduce spending on the program by $270 billion over seven years.
"They're cutting what they should be protecting, and protecting what they should be cutting," Mr. Pascrell says constantly. Instead of raising premiums, he says, the government should ferret out health-care providers who cheat the system, which he says could save $18 billion a year.
The race is considered to be extremely close, and the district's voting record does not shed much light on how it will turn out. Paterson and a few smaller cities tend to support Democrats, but their vote is usually balanced out by the Republican-leaning suburbs. President Clinton won here in 1992, but by only three percentage points. In 1993, 49.5 percent of voters here supported Gov. Jim Florio's bid for re-election, while 50.5 percent cast ballots for Christine Todd Whitman.
Professor Rebovich of Rider University said that Mr. Martini's narrow victory in 1994 suggested that voters here have become more concerned about taxes and government spending. Interviews with residents of the Eighth District suggested that character is also important.
At a recent debate between the candidates, Ed Bauman of Clifton said he was leaning toward Mr. Martini because "he's been touted as an honest person, and that's what's important for me."
Otto Cakl of Prospect Park, who attended the debate with his wife, Marylyn, said he preferred Mr. Pascrell because he seemed warm and down to earth.
"We find him to be an honest, forthright guy," Mr. Cakl said. "He's more for the working man. He meets thousands of people, but he still goes out of his way to be friendly."
Lately, Mr. Pascrell is also going out of his way to visit the suburbs, ringing doorbells and talking to people on the street. He would serve suburban constituents well, he said, because "people in the suburbs want the same thing for their kids as the people in Paterson." But conveying that message takes a lot of footwork, he said. "People have got to see me," he said. "They've got to believe the mayor of a big city is a rational guy who's not into robbing Peter to pay Paul."
On the campaign trail, Mr. Pascrell is all nervous energy, gesturing wildly and raising his voice to stress a point. He does not hesitate to use colorful language; in one speech, he proclaimed that Mr. Martini was "full of donkey dust."
Mr. Martini, who is more reserved, says that Mr. Pascrell's folksiness is a convenient distraction from his political record. "He can convince you he can solve the problems of the world. But let's talk about arithmetic, Mayor."
Mr. Martini, of Clifton, frequently says that property taxes in Paterson have risen 46 percent since 1990, when Mr. Pascrell was elected Mayor. He also blames Mr. Pascrell for the city's 13 percent unemployment rate and for the problems of its school system, which was taken over by the State Department of Education in 1991 because of mismanagement and poor student performance.
Mr. Martini also says his opponent has distorted the Republican Congress's plan for Medicare. He says the plan would allow for a more competitive system among medical providers, keeping costs down while guaranteeing financial support for Medicare through 2010.
Mr. Martini said that in the final weeks of the campaign, his radio advertisements and mailings will call more attention to Mr. Pascrell's record on taxes and government spending. Mr. Pascrell also plans to increase advertising, and each campaign expects to spend more than $1 million by Election Day.
The expense did not seem to bother several voters interviewed, but Mr. Bauman of Clifton said he was angry about another kind of spending: that of special-interest groups on advertising for both candidates. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has paid for television commercials on Mr. Pascrell's behalf, and the Sierra Club has done so for Mr. Martini.
"They never get anything done for the people when they get to Washington," Mr. Bauman said, "because they're indebted to special interests."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT A GLANCE: New Jersey's Eighth District"
 
The Eighth District includes 21 towns in southern Passaic and northern Essex counties. Almost 25 percent of its population lives in Paterson, a blighted industrial city in Passaic County. The district's population is growing at a slower rate than most, and its property taxes are among the highest in the state. There are more registered Democrats than Republicans in the district, but in recent years, voters have supported the two parties in almost equal numbers.
 
Area: 104.5 square miles
 
DEMOGRAPHICS (1990) Population: 594,629 Race and Ethnicity White: 65.8% Black: 13% Asian: 3.5% Hispanic: 17.7% Median Family Income: $46,749 People in Poverty: 8.7% Adults 25 and over with College Degree: 24.5%
 
1992 Presidential Election Clinton: 45.7% Bush: 42.5% Perot: 11.8%
 
1994 Congressional Election William J. Martini (R): 50.7% Herb Klein (D): 49.3%
 
Sources: New Jersey State Data Center; Rutgers University's 1995 New Jersey Legislative District Data Book

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) AMERICAN LEGION (84%); AMERICAN LEGION (84%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (83%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (83%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (59%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) AMERICAN LEGION (84%); AMERICAN LEGION (84%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (83%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (83%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (59%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); AGING TRENDS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); US HOUSE ELECTIONS (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); POLITICS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TAX LAW (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); AGING (74%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (72%); MEDICARE (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; PASCRELL, WILLIAM J JR (MAYOR); MARTINI, WILLIAM J (REPR) BILL PASCRELL JR (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



486 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: Passions Stir in 'Sleepy Hollow';
Debate on a Name Change for Prestige and Profit

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER 

DATELINE: NORTH TARRYTOWN, N.Y., Oct. 15

 BODY:
This is a village with an identity crisis.
For more than 100 years, its claim to fame has been as the home of a General Motors plant, a behemoth that hulked alongside the Hudson River and gave this one-time farming community of genteel Dutch patroons a gritty blue-collar heart. But the plant produced its last minivan in June and is scheduled to be torn down. 
 Now a large chorus of residents is saying that the village should stake out a new identity -- or more precisely, return to an old one -- by reaching back into history and legend to the days when a love-scorned schoolmaster named Ichabod Crane rode his old nag up the Albany Post Road, was mugged by a headless horseman near the Old Dutch Church, and vanished, leaving behind a shattered pumpkin.
This group wants to change the name North Tarrytown to Sleepy Hollow, after the Washington Irving fable, "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow," which has been read by generations of schoolchildren at Halloween time. The proposal has gotten enough signatures to schedule a vote, most likely on Dec. 10.
The campaign has stirred passions to a high pitch in a village of 8,152 people already uneasy about the fault lines between the half-million-dollar homes on its leafy margins and a larger working-class core, between old-timers and arrivistes, and among whites and Latinos.
The controversy has also raised wider questions about what it means to live in a particular place, what is evoked esthetically by a place name, and the effect that name can have on the local economy. In 1972, suburban East Paterson, N.J., changed its name to Elmwood Park to sever the association with crime-plagued Paterson. In a village like this, the questions echo the ones E. M. Forster posed in the novel "Howard's End" about an England whose class structure was breaking down. The antagonists seems to be asking: Who will inherit North Tarrytown?
What's in a name? The Sleepy Hollow Society says the rustic-sounding Sleepy Hollow would perk up interest among home buyers, attract restaurants and maybe even a hotel or two, and beguile tourists who come to the area to visit Phillipsburg Manor and the Rockefeller estate but spurn the more ordinary shops of Beekman Street, the village's center.
"North Tarrytown says you're the northern part of somewhere else," said Christopher Skelly, a 46-year-old computer programming instructor and Greenwich Village native who is president of the society. "I can't think of any village with such a nonentity for its name when it is sitting on a treasure of great value, a world-famous identity."
Society members like Henry Steiner, a 47-year-old film maker, predict that literature buffs and schoolchildren will want to trace Ichabod's fictional ride along what is now Route 9, since several sites are still there, like the Old Dutch Church and the footings of the wooden bridge the horseman dared not cross. Bill Lent, sexton of the 1685 stone church, already offers tours of the Colonial-era cemetery and has grown a long Rip Van Winkle-like beard to add to the spell he casts on listeners.
But hundreds of residents are loyal to the name North Tarrytown. They rooted for the former North Tarrytown High School in its football rivalry with neighboring Tarrytown, or worked for General Motors when being part of a company town filled them with pride. They find the effort to change the name pretentious, and call the name changers snobbish carpetbaggers and Johnny-come-latelys who want to increase their property values.
"Why change something that's been there for 122 years?" said Edna Belanich, whose husband, Mario, is a retired General Motors worker. "Our deed says North Tarrytown. We raised two children here. It doesn't make sense to change things for the sake of change."
The Belaniches have glued an orange sticker on the door of their modest Dutch Colonial house that proclaims: "North Tarrytown Forever." They want North Tarrytown to remain working class and wish for another factory to replace General Motors. Mrs. Belanich, a former teaching assistant, doesn't even like the Irving story, describing it as "weird."
Another opponent of the name change, the town's historian, Theodore Hutchinson, fears that a new name could give this genuine workaday village the synthetic aura of a Disneyland.
"There would be some hole-in-the-wall souvenir shops featuring plastic models of the headless horseman lovingly rendered by some artist in Hong Kong," Mr. Hutchinson said, with a drollery that Washington Irving might have admired.
Surprisingly, no one has mentioned the impact that a tourist-driven revival, combined with tentative plans to build 600 upscale homes on the 95-acre G.M. site, might be expected to have on the large Latin American community that has settled in the clapboard homes and brick apartments once occupied by the factory workers. Any gentrification could slowly push out some Latinos, who make up a third of the populace and have seized their own work opportunities, sprucing suburban lawns buying up village stores.
The area around Tarrytown and North Tarrytown has long been known as Sleepy Hollow Country. An animal hospital, auto body shop, country club, Mazda dealership and plumbing business are all called Sleepy Hollow.
This is, after all, where Washington Irving, on jaunts from his New York City home as a teen-ager, would caper over the local tombstones or listen to a black mill hand spin yarns about a headless horseman. After writing "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" and "Rip Van Winkle" in England around 1820, Irving, who lived from 1783 to 1859, became America's first internationally known writer. He returned to the Tarrytowns to close out his life at Sunnyside, his estate nearby. His marble tombstone stands among the other graves in the Old Dutch Church's burial ground.
"I believe it was the very peculiarity of the name, and the idea of something mystic and dreamy connected with it, that first led me, in my boyish ramblings, into Sleepy Hollow," Irving wrote in 1839. "The character of the valley seemed to answer to the name; the slumber of past ages apparently reigned over it; it had not awakened to the stir of improvement."
Mr. Skelly and Mr. Steiner, a lifelong resident of the area, have made a study of local history and say the valley of the Pocantico River, a Hudson tributary, was long called Sleepy Hollow and was derived from adjacent Slaeperingh Haven, or Sleepy Haven, the harbor where Dutch boats plying the Hudson would stop over on their way to Albany.
But Mr. Hutchinson, a former history teacher who had Mr. Steiner as a student, would now give Mr. Steiner a poor mark, saying that Sleepy Hollow was never an actual place name but was drawn from an old Mohegan Indian legend about a spell put on the inhabitants.
What is undisputed is that the village was once part of Tarrytown, then was known as Beekmantown, after a wealthy family that broke up its estate into home lots. It was incorporated in 1874 as North Tarrytown, a name that Mr. Steiner says it acquired as the northern branch of the Tarrytown post office. Although some residents have always been uneasy with the name, a 1988 vote to change it was defeated by almost 2 to 1. The vote could be much closer this year, because there are fewer people with ties to General Motors and North Tarrytown High School.
The village's mayor, Sean Treacy, has tried to remain neutral, but he says "with the closure of the G.M. site, we have an opportunity to recast ourselves as something other than a blue collar community." Envisioning something like another Mystic, Conn., seaport, he would like to create a "Sleepy Hollow Seaport" on the General Motors site, with a ferry that would bring tourists directly from Manhattan.
Much of the actual debate revolves around money. The Belaniches say that changing the name would cost tens of thousands of dollars in new stationery, repainted police and fire department cars and village seals. Mr. Steiner and Mr. Skelly say that old stationery could be used up and that vehicles could be renamed when new ones were bought. They put the actual cost of renaming at $5,000, much of it for temporary Sleepy Hollow decals.
On the other hand, Mr. Steiner figures that if a new name brings only six more visitors per day who spend $50 each, the village would increase sales by $1,095,000 over 10 years and collect taxes of $73,913.
Richard A. Mola, the mayor of Elmwood Park, says his locality's name change cost almost nothing because "we waited until everything ran out." It did take months, he said, for state agencies like the Motor Vehicles Department to forward licenses to Elmwood Park because they assumed it was a mistaken destination. Still, he said, the bucolic name sparked more interest in living in the town.
"Old-timers still call us East Paterson," he said. "In fact, you can tell the age of people by what they call us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Lent, with a Rip Van Winkle beard providing a touch of literary authenticity, leads visitors on a tour of the Old Dutch Church graveyard in North Tarrytown. (James Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. 33)
 
Diagram: "Retracing Ichabod's Route" highlights various points of interest mentioned in the story of 'The Legend of Sleepy Hollow'. (pg. 33)
 
Map of North Tarrytown showing the location of Sunnyside. (pg. 37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); SLEEPY HOLLOW SOCIETY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SLEEPY HOLLOW SOCIETY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH TARRYTOWN (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NAMES, GEOGRAPHICAL AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); HALLOWEEN (68%); RESTAURANTS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH; IRVING, WASHINGTON (1783-1859) ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



487 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Accord on Water Supply Is Criticized for Weakness

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
Several environmental groups say they will oppose a hard-won agreement to protect New York City's upstate water supply, arguing that the pact does not do enough to prevent a decline in water quality and that it will postpone by only a few years the need to build a multibillion-dollar filtration system.
In a report to be released tomorrow, the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Environmental Defense Fund, the city chapter of the Sierra Club, the City Club, the New York City Audubon Society and the Center for the Biology of Natural Systems contend that the watershed agreement, which becomes final in December, is no more than a good first step. They say it requires major modification to close loopholes that could foster pollution. 
 "Unless critical changes in the draft agreement are made, New Yorkers are likely to face a lower-quality water supply in the 21st century and could be required to pay not only the $1.5 billion cost of this agreement and related commitments, but also, before long, the $4 to $6 billion cost for filtration," the report says.
But there is no unanimity among environmentalists. Some groups, including the Hudson Riverkeeper Fund and the New York Public Interest Research Group, support the agreement as the best compromise attainable in a bitter decades-old dispute between the city and communities in the Catskill Mountains and Delaware River Valley, the sources of the city's water supply.
The administrations of Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, which spent 18 months in heated horse-trading with upstate towns to reach the 500-page agreement last month, say they are confident the agreement will protect the water supply.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is scheduled to rule on the agreement in December, and the agency's administrator, Carol M. Browner, has said it will be approved. Government officials say they are not going to tinker with a fragile compromise to satisfy critics, and that opponents of the agreement have no power to stop the deal before the E.P.A. ruling. The opponents could, however, sue the E.P.A., challenging the ruling's validity.
The E.P.A. has warned since 1993 that New York City would have to take some action to comply with Federal drinking-water standards. Government officials and environmentalists agree that that means either reducing pollution that flows into reservoirs and rivers upstate, or building a massive filtration system, for $4 billion or more.
But the city owns only 7 percent of the land in the watershed region and has limited power to prevent development there.
Under the watershed agreement, the city would spend over $1 billion to more than double its land holdings in the region, upgrade more than 100 local sewage-treatment plants that discharge into streams and lakes, replace septic tanks with sewers, install storm drains and provide economic assistance to communities. Towns, in turn, would restrict development in areas of the worst water pollution and in buffer strips along streams and reservoirs.
But the plan would not limit development or new sewer plants in areas where the water remains cleanest, and it leaves many loopholes in the buffer restrictions.
"The draft agreement would allow unchecked amounts of treated sewage into high-quality reservoir basins and does not provide adequate safety or buffer zones around the rivers and streams that feed our reservoirs," says the report.
The E.P.A. has said it will give the city five years to make the plan work. But critics say that water quality will continue to decline, forcing the city to adopt filtration after all.
"Some elements of it take 10 or 15 years to take effect," said Eric A. Goldstein, a senior attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council. "Things won't be better five years from now. So we'll have to pay now and pay later."
But John J. Cronin, executive director of the Hudson Riverkeeper Fund, said, "It's safe to say that they have no factual nor scientific basis for making that assertion." The problem with the debate, he said, is that no one has enough information to make firm predictions.
"I cannot tell you that it is going to be successful as written, but I believe that it will," Mr. Cronin said of the plan. "There's an experimental nature to this. I don't deny that. But for anyone to predict its failure in advance is foolish."
More to the point, he said, the city has no choice. "There is nothing in state or Federal law that can require the local towns to do anything," he said. "We absolutely have to have the upstate communities' cooperation, and whatever plan you come up with is going to be limited by that."
Chris Meyer, staff attorney at the New York Public Interest Research Group, said the fact that any agreement with the watershed towns had been reached was significant, since the last one was in 1953. "If you believe, as we do, that land acquisition is crucial, then this is a landmark," he said. "I agree that this is just a first step, but it's an important one. What's the alternative? There isn't one."
Government officials admit no doubts about the virtue of the agreement. "We are very confident that this comprehensive plan will keep water clean and safe for New Yorkers," said Michael F. McKeon, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (86%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH GROUP (51%); SIERRA CLUB (57%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (57%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (57%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (57%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (57%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (57%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (57%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (57%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CATSKILLS (NYS AREA); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; WATER POLLUTION ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); RIVERS (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAKES (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (73%); MOUNTAINS (70%); APPROVALS (63%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); CAROL BROWNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



488 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Suntans and Dates Don't Justify College Costs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Bargain U." (Op-Ed, Oct. 17), Harold Howe 2d would console students who owe government loans that their tuition is a bargain considering they can live somewhere with "green grass for fun and sun-bathing" and "unlimited opportunities to meet and date potential mates."
Perhaps for those who can afford not to work while attending school, these spare-time activities may compensate for a small percentage of tuition. But for the many, they hardly justify high tuition. The true problem is that many of our nation's brightest cannot afford to attend the schools of their choice. Rather than awarding degrees to the most qualified candidates, universities graduate those who have money to attend. 
 An educated elite alone cannot provide the country with enough skilled labor to compete in a globalized economy. We need to nurture all bright high school students -- not leave them to wither in unskilled jobs.
 
JORDAN E. ERDOS
Austin, Tex., Oct. 17, 1996
 
The writer is a graduate student at the University of Texas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); GLOBALIZATION (51%); 

PERSON: ERDOS, JORDAN E; HOWE, HAROLD 2D HAROLD HOWE II (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



489 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Downsized Workers Recovered No Ground

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Steven Rattner's "Downsizing the Downsizing Crisis" (Op-Ed, Oct. 16) tries to minimize the effect that job displacement has on millions of Americans in the 1990's. He uses the findings of a Labor Department study to contend that 70 percent of workers displaced from 1993 to 1995 found new jobs by February 1996.
That figure masks the reality underlined by the Labor Department study: Of those 70 percent re-employed, 204,000 found only part-time jobs and 926,000 found jobs paying below their previous earnings. Added to these are the 1.3 million who did not find new jobs at all. Thus, 65 percent -- almost two-thirds -- of those who lost jobs in the mid-1990's either did not find new jobs, found only part-time jobs or found jobs paying below their previous earnings. 
 Mr. Rattner's prescription for the economy -- in effect, do nothing -- is based on an erroneous perception of the plight of millions of American workers. Coupled with the fact that more than nine-tenths of net new jobs in the 1990's have been in retail trade and health and business services (the two lowest-paying categories of the service sector) and the result that the real average weekly wage is 80 percent of its level in 1972, worker displacement is a far more serious problem than he would have us believe.
 
WARD MOREHOUSE
DAVID DEMBO
New York, Oct. 16, 1996
 
The writers are, respectively, president and program coordinator, Council on International and Public Affairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR LAYOFFS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (70%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (70%); 

PERSON: MOREHOUSE, WARD; DEMBO, DAVID; RATTNER, STEVEN STEVEN RATTNER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



490 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE OVERVIEW;
G.O.P. Leaders Doubtful That Dole Can Close Gap

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Oct. 19

 BODY:
As the Presidential campaign enters its final two-week rally, prominent Republicans around the country are increasingly and more openly expressing doubts that Bob Dole can gain enough ground to defeat President Clinton.
Some in the party are already giving stinging post-mortems of the Dole campaign, while many said their overriding concern now was making sure that Mr. Dole has a respectable enough showing so that Republicans do not sacrifice control of Congress and local offices. 
 In state after state, dozens of Republican office-holders, candidates, strategists and party officials, interviewed after the final Presidential debate here this week, said that short of some unforeseen crisis, they were hard-pressed to offer a scenario for a Dole victory. In fact, virtually no one was willing to predict that Mr. Dole would triumph nationally.
Even Tom Slade, the state Republican chairman in Florida, long a Republican bastion, said that if Mr. Dole carried the state "it will be nothing short of a political miracle."
One of the most biting critiques came from Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin, who had often been mentioned as a possible running mate for Mr. Dole. Earlier this year, he boasted that he could deliver his state for Mr. Dole. Now, he said, that appeared unlikely.
"I thought George Bush's campaign was probably the poorest run Presidential campaign -- and I think this is a close second," Mr. Thompson said Friday on the nationally syndicated Don Imus radio program.
Describing his strained relations with the Dole campaign, which is not actively competing in Wisconsin, the Governor said: "I've told them I've been disappointed, but they've stopped talking to me as of about a week ago. I told them how they could win Wisconsin, and they haven't taken my advice. They have too many people running the campaign in Washington.
"They should have got the Republican governors to run this campaign -- and not run it from Washington.
"They would have been much better off. I told them that from Day 1, and they've never bothered to implement that. And I think it shows."
But Scott Reed, Mr. Dole's campaign manager, chided Republicans for doubting his candidate's prospects. "Clinton is a paper tiger," he said, noting that the remainder of the campaign will be devoted to undermining Mr. Clinton's ethics. "Our closing theme of this campaign is going to be about trust and telling the truth and Clinton's ethical mishaps. Clinton is on the defensive."
Many loyal party members insisted that they were still bravely holding out for a Dole triumph. Stopping short of predicting a victory, Gov. David Beasley of South Carolina said: "I think it's doable. But it needs to start happening soon."
Still, the willingness of other influential Republicans in every region to vocalize their nervousness reflects depths of the gloom in the party.
Robert Bennett, chairman of the Ohio Republican Party, noted with resignation that Mr. Clinton's advantage in his crucial state remains daunting. "I'll be honest with you: Nothing has changed in 75 days," he said. "We're down 7, 8, 9 -- nothing's moved. Clinton's support is a millimeter thick and a mile wide."
Mr. Dole has struggled, Mr. Bennett explained, because Ohio's economy is in good shape. "You talk to people and they're smiling," he said. "That bodes well for the incumbent." But Mr. Bennett also complained of a lack of passion from either candidate, saying, "On our side, this isn't a Ronald Reagan type of election -- or even a George Bush."
Representative Cass Ballenger of North Carolina said that while "the likelihood of winning is not so great" for Mr. Dole nationwide, he was encouraging Republicans to turn out to save Republican Congressional candidates. At a rally on Friday night, he made the case that if North Carolina and South Carolina go for Dole -- as the polls suggest -- "the psychology in California could change" and help the nominee win that crucial state later in the evening.
"When things are as bad as they are on the national ticket," Mr. Ballenger said, "you try to dream up what you can to make it look better." By this morning, the veteran lawmaker conceded that he was guilty of wishful thinking, saying, "We can't carry California."
As much as anything else, the candidates' travel schedules over the coming days will tell the story of Mr. Dole's predicament.
As Mr. Clinton offered his ritualistic warnings about complacency, his campaign is scheduling trips to states like Virginia, Montana, Nevada and New Hampshire, where Democrats traditionally did not have a chance -- until this year.
Mr. Dole, meanwhile, is still trying to shore up traditional Republican bastions; he has even launched a late advertising effort in Indiana, long considered safely Republican.
Tom Rath, a longtime Republican strategist in New Hampshire, said of Mr. Dole's prospects in his state and nationally: "I don't think he could win today. I think that there's a lot of movement in the electorate right now, but I don't know that there is enough to win it."
In Iowa, another state that Mr. Dole once counted on -- and where he has pulled out -- some leading Republicans have turned their focus to helping Congressional candidates.
Brent Siegrist, majority leader of the Iowa House of Representatives, said the question was not whether Mr. Dole would lose his state, but by what percent: "We are concerned, but there is not much we can do about it," he said. "If Dole is blown out by 15 or 16 points, it's a problem. But if it's 10 or less, it's not."
Brian Kennedy, the Iowa Republican chairman, was frustrated that the Dole campaign pulled its advertising and essentially forfeited the state. "We argued very, very much they should stay," he said.
Even as he stopped short of dismissing Mr. Dole's prospects, Ralph Reed, executive director of the Christian Coalition, said Republicans had to think of retaining control of Congress. "While it is uphill," he said, "I think it would be a big mistake for the Republican Party or conservative activists to kiss the top of the ticket goodbye. That would hurt all the way down the ticket."
Don Sipple, a media strategist who parted with the Dole campaign after a dispute in September, raised the possibility that Mr. Dole may not even close Mr. Clinton's lead to single digits. "It is very unlikely that he can win," Mr. Sipple said. "The thing to watch is does this become a breaking point for Congressional races and Senate races?"
Reflecting the desire among some Republicans for the campaign to end, Mr. Sipple said when he picked up the phone: "Ready for this non-campaign to be over?"
Many of the Republicans interviewed expressed more frustration, and disappointment over Mr. Clinton than excitement over Mr. Dole. "If your car won't start, he's got a plan," said J. Randy Forbes, a state delegate from Virginia and chairman of the state's Republican Party. "If you've got a headache in the morning, he's got a plan." Referring to the Dole campaign's strategy of overtaking Mr. Clinton in California, he said of the ticket's national prospects: "If we can win Texas and California, we still have a chance."
Yet again and again in the interviews, Republicans spoke of a public paucity of enthusiasm over the race -- as well as the contenders' lack of passion. That may help explain why figures showed that the debate on Wednesday drew lower ratings than any such encounter ever televised.
"The voters, I think, have really been lulled to sleep because the Dole campaign has been Melba toast," said Gov. Fife Symington of Arizona, a traditionally Republican state where Mr. Dole is struggling in the polls. "Now we're fighting. Now we're on the attack."
While Mr. Symington said "the race is winnable," he complained that Mr. Dole, by failing to sharpen his oratory sooner, had "forfeited the battlefield to Clinton for many weeks -- the campaign has been a constant game of catch-up ball."
Dodie Londen, the Republican state chairman in Arizona, said, "It's just a shame that voters are going along with Bill Clinton."
Mr. Dole has yet to visit Washington state during the general-election campaign, and polls show him trailing there by as much as 20 points. "I have to say I'm a little bit disappointed," said Ken Eikenberry, the state's Republican chairman. "It looked early on like we'd be a battleground state and they would be in here."
For every candid public remark, it seems, there are more Republicans willing to grouse privately. One of the candidate's closest advisers, speaking on the condition that he not be identified, said of the decision to pump resources into winning California: "Look, it would be nice if he could somehow win California. But the real goal is to help those 25 Representatives out there."
A Republican national committeewoman from one traditional battleground state said for quotation: "Of course I think Bob Dole can win here and also nationally." But then asked for her true assessment on the condition that she not be identified, she replied: "Dole is going to lose at the top of the ticket nationally."
This air of resignation is most obvious at Dole headquarters in Washington. Asked if he planned to work in the White House next year, one aide replied with only a hint of a grin, "No. Why would I want to work for Bill Clinton?"

CORRECTION-DATE: October 23, 1996, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about Republican Party officials' increasing pessimism about Bob Dole's chances of beating President Clinton truncated a quotation from Tom Slade, the chairman of the Republican Party of Florida, altering its meaning. Speaking about Mr. Dole's prospects for winning his state, Mr. Slade said: "I am more optimistic than I have ever been that Dole will carry Florida. Because we were down substantially, if he does, it will be nothing short of a political miracle."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OHIO REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (69%); ETHICS (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996



491 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: Spying and Lying

BYLINE: By Norman Rush; Norman Rush is the author of "Whites" and "Mating" and is at work on a new novel, "Mortals."

 BODY:

THE TAILOR OF PANAMA
By John le Carre.
332 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $25.
The British Ambassador is a twit. His military attache is eager to trade arms for drug money. Universal cupidity reigns, and lechery, too. The weather is sultry. We're in Panama City, somewhere in the specious present, waiting for the canal to fall into the hands of the Panamanians in 1999 -- as the current treaty requires -- unless somebody does something about it. In fact a plot is afoot, under British auspices, but obscurely so, to get the canal treaty aborted. The political terrain, which is contoured exclusively by doctrineless greed, lacks certain standard features, such as any sort of political left, the local variety having been crushed by Manuel Noriega and its remnants vaporized during Operation Sunrise in 1989. We're in John le Carre's new world -- the new world of the Americas ("The Tailor of Panama is his first book to be set there), the new world of the post-cold-war spy novel and a new world of literary form for him (satire). Be prepared for savage novelty. 
 Here's as much of the story as it's fair to tell: Harry Pendel, 40, a not-so-humble tailor, a transplanted London Jew, is blackmailed and bribed into becoming an informant for British intelligence, on the theory that his professional contacts as a custom tailor to the rich and powerful ought to provide valuable data. Code-named Buchan, Pendel becomes the sole source for the sort of information his local handler especially wants, as Pendel quickly understands.
What the originators of the canal plot fear is that the Panamanians might cede de facto control of the facility to the Japanese or some other objectionable party. Their plan is to dupe powerfully placed irredentist elements in the American military establishment into nullifying the treaty and replaying the invasion of 1989. To ignite such action, a scenario in which it would appear to the world that the Government of the day was bloodily repressing a mildly leftish, but essentially democratic and virtuous opposition, would have to be managed, and fast.
Pendel has little to work with. He invents. He sees that his inventions gladden his handler. He invents more. He revises the most innocent comments of his customers into alarming omens. With the help of Marta, his demi-mistress (their sexual relationship is restricted to episodes of petting), he invents a left. Marta is a former member of the student resistance to Noriega and she enriches the tailor's construct -- the Silent Opposition -- with the real names of ex-comrades still hanging around but now politically inert. (If this reminds you of Graham Greene's "Our Man in Havana," you're right: the author acknowledges his debt to the book and its central trope of a fabulating operative.)
As Pendel's concoctions are put to increasingly tragic use, the two-tiered moral structure of the narrative shows clearly. On top are the Machiavels, the conscious servants of immoral power, and they are witheringly portrayed. This is how Andy Osnard, Pendel's handler, the foulmouthed younger son in a played-out line of gentry, decides on a career in intelligence: "He had no craft or qualification, no proven skills outside the golf course and the bedroom. What he understood best was English rot, and what he needed was a decaying English institution that would restore to him what other decaying institutions had taken away." On the bottom are the pawns in the canal plot. They collaborate and they do evil, but they do so under coercion or out of misplaced love or loyalty to particular friends or lovers. The difference between the two groups is important.
Point of view skips around in this book, but we witness events mainly through the eyes of the Tailor of Panama. He is an arresting creation: "Harry Pendel rose with a sense of his own diversity stronger than any he had experienced in all his years of striving and imagining. He had never been so many people. Some were strangers to him, others warders or old lags known to him from previous convictions. But all were at his side, marching with him in the same direction, sharers of his grand vision." Nicely conveyed is the intoxication Pendel finds in unfettered lying. The tailor is the book's deepest character -- appalling, likable, then appalling again.
Leftlessness, a world without lefts, was bound to be a problem for the political novel and its robust shadow, the spy novel. From Conrad to le Carre, the left -- as looming threat or promise, as kingdom come, as utopia gone mad, as brutal imperium -- has provided the armature for the great entries in this stream of literary creation. Readers who were wondering what life in the afterleft might be like for writers like John le Carre now have their answer. What he has done is to venture fiercely into satire, producing a tour de force in which almost every convention of the classic spy novel is violated. If the novel is, in its basic nature, biased toward optimistic outcomes, genre writing is even more inflexibly bound to the tendency. Think of the absolute regularity with which galactic tyrants are overthrown, cattle barons defeated by sodbusters, Heathcliffs domesticated. Even in the most elevated, reflective and somber of the classic spy novels (like Mr. le Carre's own), where good and evil interpenetrate confoundingly, the underlying drift is toward victory for the forces of light.
Not here. Hold your breath for this one. Here villains are rewarded and the innocent and the least villainous are cruelly punished. Beyond that, this spy novel has no genuine spies, no real spying, no secrets. Over the main course of the action, there is no interpersonal violence among the principals. You may think the phrase "nonviolent thriller" is an oxymoron, but it isn't. It describes the book fairly.
There are weaknesses in "The Tailor of Panama," some less important than others. Getting used to Mr. le Carre doing satire means getting used to sketchier description and scene setting. I found the American characters rather shakily delineated, which might be set down to Mr. le Carre's famous ambivalence toward Americanity. Here, for example, is Pendel's wife, an American raised in the Canal Zone, speaking: "Harry," she says, "I wish you to think about your family. I know of too many cases, and so do you, where men of 40 have suffered heart attacks and other stress-related maladies. . . . If you are truly worried about the future and not just using it as a pretext, we have the rice farm to fall back on, and we would surely all prefer to live in reduced circumstances practicing Christian abstinence than try to keep pace with your rich, immoral friends and have you die on us." This is off key.
But a more substantial defect for me lies in an aspect of the Pendel character: here we have, however little Mr. le Carre intended it, yet another literary avatar of Judas. It's reasonable to make an expatriate British tailor a Jew, but does this Jew, for example, have to defame the only decent, "saintly" (Pendel's own term) political leader in Panama, and then go on to implicate his own wife's utterly innocent Christian study group to boot? (There's a striking Judas parallel I can't mention without giving too much away.)
The touches on Pendel's background added to my unease over this connection. For example, Pendel's Uncle Benny, a specialist in insurance arson, survived under the Nazis by becoming a tailor to the high command of the Wehrmacht. As you read, the phrase "rootless cosmopolitans" scratches at the doors of your mind.
John le Carre's writerly skills are at work in "The Tailor of Panama." The pace is nonstop, scenes are cleanly and economically written, and flashbacks are incorporated seamlessly into the narrative. The details of the tailor's craft are given entertainingly. And the conclusion, which should probably not come as a surprise, resoundingly does.
Historical accident has taken away this author's great subject, the war of the pretty bad (the West) against the much worse (the East). That's over, and the outcome is . . . a great question. Certain features of the surreal Politik of our time present the artistic intelligence with an unusual degree of challenge, to use everybody's favorite word. Now, after this unexpected essay into extreme satire, this rude blast of dismay and disgust, John le Carre's readers will be eager to see if he can provide the graver pleasures he accustomed them to in his previous mode of work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: TAILOR OF PANAMA, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: PANAMA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PANAMA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); LITERATURE (87%); COLD WAR (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); WRITERS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (71%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (67%); 

PERSON: RUSH, NORMAN; LE CARRE, JOHN HARRY PENDEL (94%); JOHN LE CARRE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



492 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 18; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Bork's Bite

BYLINE: By Richard A. Epstein; Richard A. Epstein is the James Parker Hall Distinguished Service Professor of Law at the University of Chicago. His new book, "Mortal Peril: Our Inalienable Rights to Health Care?," will appear in the spring.

 BODY:

SLOUCHING TOWARDS GOMORRAH
Modern Liberalism and American Decline.
By Robert H. Bork.
382 pp. New York: Regan Books. $25.
In 1987, President Ronald Reagan's nomination of Judge Robert Bork for the Supreme Court precipitated an all-out confirmation struggle that led to a bitter defeat in the Senate. "To Bork" became the verb for nonstop political resistance. Today, Robert Bork borks back with such vehemence that his past adversaries will surely shout "We told you so!" 
 Mr. Bork rolls into the culture wars firmly on the side of traditional values. If he makes one positive statement about the past 30 years, I missed it. Everywhere he seeks to slay the left-wing dragon. He deplores the rise of a vulgar pop culture and makes an impassioned case for censorship "for the most violent and sexually explicit material" now routinely available, especially on the Internet. Substitute "subordination of women" for "debasement of culture" and he sounds just like Andrea Dworkin. But there the resemblance ends, for Mr. Bork regards the universities as veritable swamps of political correctness dominated by radical deconstructionists and mindless Afrocentrists. He lashes out at many leaders of the Roman Catholic Church and Protestant denominations for living in a "leftist dream world" that denounces capitalism and embraces Cuba and Communism. (For good measure he doubts the soundness of the Darwinian view of evolution.)
Mr. Bork also decries rising illegitimacy, which, following Charles Murray, he sees as the driver of tomorrow's crime and social decay. He condemns abortion for convenience, and he denounces physician-assisted suicide as a devious way to dispatch the old and infirm against their will. And, yes, he still excoriates the Supreme Court for hewing to the A.C.L.U.. line on nude dancing, flag burning and gay rights. No wonder he fears for our national prospects.
Mr. Bork is all passion and no balance. On assisted suicide, for example, he does not address the work of its major defenders. He does not explain why he thinks that the categorical distinction between killing and letting die, often by starvation, matters, or why the risks of coercion and abuse are so much greater in the killing cases. These questions may have answers, but the reader will have to go elsewhere to find them. Mr. Bork never engages his opponents on their own turf. He only assaults them.
The origin of Mr. Bork's crusade is both personal and intellectual. His title was inspired by Yeats'ss 1919 poem "The Second Coming." Yeats asked what "rough beast" slouches toward Bethlehem to be born. Mr. Bork sees America slouching to Gomorrah to die. Writing in the aftermath of World War I, Yeats gloomily predicted that "the center cannot hold," for "the best lack all conviction, while the worst / are full of passionate intensity." Today Mr. Bork locates "the worst" in the idealism of the 1962 Port Huron Statement that set off Students for a Democratic Society, and recalls "the best," close up, as a former Yale Law School professor whose elite institution dissolved before his eyes in the 1967-68 academic year. Mr. Bork's historical account of an able faculty caving inexplicably before militant students jibes perfectly with my student memories. Barely two years later, Yale had book burnings outside the library and the nation had extensive political unrest that led to deaths at Kent State. The center did not hold.
But did it regenerate? Not for Mr. Bork, who minimizes the twists and turns of history -- for one thing, eight years of a Reagan Presidency -- to treat our modern malaise as the one direct and inescapable consequence of these formative events. His model of linear decline leaves too much of the story untold. The same legal academy that has brought us feminist excesses also gave birth to a vigorous law-and-economics movement, and the two coexist uneasily to this day. Left-wing religion is counterbalanced by the Christian Evangelical right. Union muscle in the Democratic Party did not prevent the Republicans from taking over Congress in 1994, or from forcing Bill Clinton to run for re-election on a platform that stresses family values and state-run crime control and welfare reform.
Mr. Bork fares little better in diagnosing the intellectual sources of our current discontent. He posits that the classical celebrations of liberty of the Federalist papers and John Stuart Mill's "On Liberty" nourished, perhaps inadvertently, his despised modern liberalism. He acknowledges that the earlier doctrines sought to limit individual behavior by prohibitions against the use of force and fraud, and, less clearly, by a "morals" component of the police power that allowed state regulation of prostitution, pornography and gambling. But Mr. Bork regards this system as intrinsically unstable, so that over time the noble liberty of Mill disintegrates into the license of the 60's generation.
But why? Those of us who still cling to the classical liberal vision are as insistent as Mr. Bork on the role of voluntary institutions in giving individuals a sense of place and purpose, in setting standards of right conduct that go beyond legal minimums, and in mediating conflicts between the individual and the state. We prize individual liberty not as a means to self-indulgence, but as the necessary prerequisite for forming responsible communities within the state.
What is Mr. Bork's alternative? "Slouching Towards Gomorrah" is vague on prescription. He cannot take much refuge in the primacy of democratic politics (except in denouncing the Supreme Court), for he protests its outcomes on the feminization of the military and on the continuing power of affirmative action. Nor in this sprawling country can he find a core set of moral values that command widespread assent: the moral harmony of "Father Knows Best" exists only in reruns. Rather than knocking down the classical liberal model of the state, he should insist that its limitations on individual behavior are as essential as its celebration of freedom. Instead of attacking the excesses of individual behavior, he should try to strengthen the autonomous position of private institutions, especially private universities, from government control of their hiring and admission policies. Unfortunately, Mr. Bork wants to control the political levers to implement his vision of proper moral conduct and of the collective good. A better program is to disable those levers altogether.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SLOUCHING TOWARDS GOMORRAH (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT H MURRAY PARTNERS INC (92%); ROBERT H LOWE PLC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); CENSORSHIP (78%); LITERATURE (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); RELIGION (71%); WORLD WAR I (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (66%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (66%); SUICIDE (64%); ABORTION (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (51%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); 

PERSON: EPSTEIN, RICHARD A (PROF); BORK, ROBERT H RONALD REAGAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996



493 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Russian Taxes Discourage Entrepreneurs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I read with interest your Oct. 17 editorial "Russia's Tax Crisis," in which the Government is collecting only a fraction of what it is due. 
 I am working on a project of the United States Agency for International Development in Saratov, Russia, helping nascent agribusinesses write business plans and trying to find credit to finance their operations. High interest rates aside (80 percent to 120 percent a year), it is extremely difficult to find projects that are profitable when one includes all the Government taxes -- no fewer than 52 of them -- in the financial statements.
It is true that not enough taxes are being collected and that vital services are not being financed.
But the challenge for the Government and the real tax crisis is how to undertake tax reform that balances the need to collect taxes and yet does not discourage entrepreneurs from investing in the Russian economy.
 
WILLIAM SCOTT
Larkspur, Calif., Oct. 17, 1996
The writer is vice president of Agland Investment Services.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; TAXATION ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); BUSINESS PLANS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX REFORM (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); AGRICULTURE (56%); 

PERSON: SCOTT, WILLIAM

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



494 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Ponders Its Growing Digital Divide

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The Warren County Library serves 7,000 people in rural Georgia. But the distance separating the community library from the information age is measured not in miles but in dollars.
Sandra Green, the librarian, has a total budget of $38,000 a year that must pay for everything, from staff salaries to utility bills. The library has a three-year-old personal computer, but it is not linked to any networks. 
 "If we could get help to get on the Internet, it would be great," Ms. Green said. "If that ever happened, it would enlighten a lot of people here."
Ms. Green's hopes for crossing America's digital divide, and the hopes of many thousands of libraries and schools, rest with a little-known, eight-member board of Federal regulators and state officials. The joint board held its final meeting on Thursday in Washington, and by Nov. 7 it must recommend how to give libraries and elementary and secondary schools access to modern telecommunications services at discount prices.
The special treatment for libraries and schools is the result of an amendment in the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which was signed into law in February. These educational institutions, Congress decided, should be given subsidies so that people of all backgrounds, especially children, have access to the tools of information technology.
Without measures to insure access, many Senators and Representatives warned, telecommunications deregulation could well have the unintended consequence of widening the gap between society's haves and have-nots.
Yet while the amendment to help schools and libraries is sweeping in scope, the language is vague. It speaks of "enhanced services," which nearly everyone involved in the issue takes to mean Internet access. But it also discusses making services "affordable," which is an invitation for debate.
Congress left it for the joint board to wade through the intricate economics and politics of how to institute the preferred terms for schools and libraries -- as well as overhaul the longstanding "universal service" provisions, a system of payments and subsidies to insure that telephone service is available to all the nation's households.
So the eight-person board is faced with somehow trying to determine how much help schools and libraries should get and at what cost. The board includes three members of the Federal Communications Commission, four state utility commissioners and the public counsel for Missouri, who is designated a consumer representative. The board's recommendations will form the basis for rules that the F.C.C. will issue by May.
There is plenty of debate within the board, and the deliberations have attracted attention at the highest level of the Government. President Clinton's frequently mentioned "bridge to the 21st century" is in good part a high-technology vision, with school children logging onto the Internet.
On Oct. 10, during a speech in Knoxville, Tenn., the President called on the joint board to give every school and library basic Internet service for free, which he called an "E-rate," or educational rate. "I urge the F.C.C. and the state regulators who have a say in this to make the E-rate a reality for our schools," Mr. Clinton said. "This is a big deal."
Reed E. Hundt, the F.C.C. chairman, is the joint board's leading proponent of generous support, quickly granted, for schools and libraries. While only 9 percent of America's classrooms have access to the Internet today, Mr. Hundt talks ambitiously about wiring them all in the next five years.
In his view, the Government should guide technology investment in the interests of social equity. "The dawning of the information age represents an opportunity for equality that we have not enjoyed since Horace Mann first championed the idea of free public school," Mr. Hundt said.
Other members of the joint board are reluctant to go as far as Mr. Hundt. The board's role, they say, is to devise a plan of balanced economic regulation rather than to champion social change, which could be quite costly. The discounts for schools and libraries will be covered by payments from telephone companies, but those charges will be passed along to phone customers.
The legislation, some members of the joint board note, calls for preferred rates for enhanced telecommunications services but does not stipulate providing services for free.
In addition, Mr. Hundt believes that schools and libraries should have help to pay for wiring up computer networks. But others on the board say the subsidies should only cover services and not equipment.
"There is a concern among several members of the board that we could really balloon the cost of the program," said Rachelle B. Chong, an F.C.C. commissioner. "And ratepayers are all going to have to pay for this."
The Administration estimates that the cost of linking schools and libraries to the Internet would be as much as $2.5 billion annually for five years. The Consumer Federation of America estimates that would add 50 cents a month, or $6 a year, to the average American's home phone bill.
The joint board, analysts say, must also develop a formula to insure that schools and libraries in the poorest areas get the most help. Otherwise, they say, the institutions in more affluent communities could be the biggest beneficiaries.
For schools and libraries, a 50-percent discount for telecommunications and Internet services is a frequently mentioned figure. "But without some sort of means test, the wealthy communities would benefit the most from the discounts because they could afford to purchase the most services," said Mark Cooper, director of research for the Consumer Federation of America.
More than discount-rate telecommunications services, to be sure, will be needed to help close the digital divide between wealthy and poorer communities. The Microsoft Corporation, for example, supports 215 libraries in low-income urban and rural areas. In the program, Microsoft provides hardware, software and training for libraries, which must pay the telecommunications costs themselves.
"The telecommunications is part of the puzzle, but only one part," said Christopher Hedrick, who heads the library program for Microsoft. "Real technology access for poorer areas requires public and private-sector support."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Going on line at the Flatbush branch of the Brooklyn Public Library at 22 Linden Boulevard. A national panel will soon recommend how the Government should help libraries gain more access to the information age. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FCC CO LTD (51%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); LIBRARIANS (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (54%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; HUNDT, REED E (CHMN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



495 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: OPERA REVIEW;
A 'Figaro' And Time's Challenge

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH 

 BODY:
It is chiefly a time to look forward at the New York City Opera, in the company's first full season with Paul Kellogg as general director. But the schedule was largely fixed, a note in the program reminds the audience, by Mr. Kellogg's immediate predecessor, Christopher Keene, and many of its parts evoke a more distant past.
John Copley's production of Mozart's "Nozze di Figaro," which was revived on Friday evening, dates back 20 years, before the Beverly Sills era, to when Julius Rudel still ran the company. It has served well, however, and continues to do so in Albert Sherman's stage direction, providing an economical, generally unobtrusive setting in which this eminently humane and organic opera can unfold freely and naturally. 
 Although elements of camp and slapstick persist, they are fewer and less bothersome than in many another aging City Opera production or, for that matter, in recent stagings of this work at the Metropolitan Opera. And as usual, the City Opera filled out the production with a cast that was generally promising if seldom brilliant.
It may have been weakest at the center. Jacob Will, making his company debut, was pleasant to listen to, as Figaro, but often hard to hear. His attractive baritone lacked carrying power, and he tended to disappear vocally in the larger ensembles, just as, physically, he failed to dominate the stage.
Amy Burton applied her own small-scale resources to better effect as Susanna, growing quickly into the character and giving it added dimension throughout the evening. Laura Tucker, in her company debut, was an appealing Cherubino, not particularly masculine in manner but persuasive in voice and mien; she gave the role as much depth as could be expected of a callow youth endowed with noble melodies.
Victor Benedetti, who was said to be suffering respiratory distress, trouped on gamely and, indeed, effectively as the Count. Despite some understandably nasal tone, he may have been the strongest singer onstage.
Sheila Smith acquitted herself with dignity as the Countess in her City Opera debut, but her pitch shaded flat in "Porgi, Amor." Although she quickly found her level, she never sounded entirely fresh, and her high notes in "Dove sono" were especially constricted.
Jennifer Aylmer was appealing in the limited way that is allowed to a Barbarina. William Fleck and Diana Daniele were suitably crusty as Bartolo and Marcellina.
Also making his company debut was Derrick Inouye, a young Canadian-born conductor. Mr. Inouye favored animated tempos, which he seemed to have difficulty communicating to the stage in the first and last acts.
Such slippage in ensemble suggested the kind of under-rehearsal that has long been the City Opera's lot. On the other hand, after some sour woodwind tuning in the overture, the orchestra responded well to Mr. Inouye's direction and often sounded more glamorous than its former self.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amy Burton and Jacob Will in the City Opera's "Nozze di Figaro." (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: NOZZE DI FIGARO (OPERA)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (58%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY OPERA KELLOGG CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY OPERA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA; REVIEWS OPERA (93%); MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (70%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (65%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (65%); 

PERSON: OESTREICH, JAMES R CHRISTOPHER KEENE (58%); JULIUS RUDEL (57%); BEVERLY SILLS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



496 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Edith Penrose, 81, Dies; Business Trend Expert

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
Edith Tilton Penrose, an American-born British economist who was an authority on corporate growth and on oil, died on Oct. 11 in Waterbeach -- near Cambridge, England -- where she lived. She was 81.
Her death was reported on Saturday by The Guardian and The Independent. 
 Dr. Penrose, whose doctorate was from Johns Hopkins University, retired in 1978 as a professor at the University of London's School of Oriental and African Studies, where she concurrently headed the school's economics department. In later years she was a professor and a dean at the Institut Europeen d'Administration des Affaires in Fontainebleau, France.
Her best-known book is "The Theory of the Growth of the Firm" (1959, Oxford), about the ways companies grow and the reasons why they do. Jay B. Barney, a professor of management at Ohio State University, writing in a management journal last year, called it a seminal work about "the competitive implications of a firm's internal strengths and weaknesses."
A Scottish economist, Sir Alec Cairncross, recalled in The Independent on Saturday, that the book brought Dr. Penrose "instant recognition as a creative thinker, and its importance to the analysis of the job of management has been increasingly realized."
In theorizing about companies, Dr. Penrose held that, as The Guardian put it: "There are important administrative restraints on the speed of the firm's growth. Human resources required for the management of change are tied to the individual firm and so are internally scarce. Expansion requires the recruitment of more such resources. New recruits cannot become fully effective overnight. The growth process is, therefore, dynamically constrained."
Dr. Penrose's interest in oil originated in the late 1950's, when she was a visiting professor at the University of Baghdad. In a 1976 interview, she recalled: "I was doing a book on multinational corporations, although nobody called them that in those days. Being in Iraq, it would have been rather silly not to concentrate on oil, wouldn't it?"
That book, "The Large International Firm in Developing Countries: The International Petroleum Industry," was published in 1968, and by 1976 she was considered one of the top oil economists in the world.
In the 1976 interview, she said: "Historically, the international oil companies often have wielded their vast power selfishly, although their accomplishments have often been beneficial to the world." By that time, oil executives had often been less than pleased with conclusions expressed in her writings, but she contended: "I don't take sides. I just gather the facts and if people don't like my work, they just don't like the facts."
Edith Tilton was born in Los Angeles and received a bachelor's degree in 1936 from the University of California at Berkeley. After working for the American Embassy in London, she received her doctorate in 1950. Her first book, "Economics of the International Patent System," was published in 1951.
Dr. Penrose was a lecturer and research associate at Johns Hopkins for many years. Sir Alec wrote that after a campaign she and her husband, Ernest F. Penrose, a British-born economist and writer, "conducted in support of Owen Lattimore, a professor accused of un-American activities," the couple "fell afoul of McCarthy and were more or less exiled, first to the Australian National University in Canberra and then to Baghdad University." Then the couple moved to Britain.
Dr. Penrose married David Burton Denhardt in 1934; he died in 1938. She married Mr. Penrose in 1944; he died in 1984. Her survivors include three sons.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edith Tilton Penrose. (Joseph Daniel, 1976) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); SCOTLAND (79%); ENGLAND (73%); IRAQ (72%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (53%); 

COMPANY: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); SCOTLAND (79%); ENGLAND (73%); IRAQ (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (53%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CHANGE MANAGEMENT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (62%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (50%); 

PERSON: PENROSE, EDITH TILTON; PACE, ERIC EDITH TILTON PENROSE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



497 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Credit Offerings Scheduled for the Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and two- and five-year notes being auctioned tomorrow and Wednesday.
According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was at 4.96 percent, and the rate on the six-month issue was at 5.08 percent. In when-issued trading the two-year note was offered at a price to yield 5.86 percent, and the five-year note at 6.23 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
ABN Amro, $500 million of global, tier-3 capital notes due in 2006, Aa3/---/---. ABN Ambro Securities and Morgan Stanley & Co.
Capita Preferred Trust, 8 million shares of $25 trust originated preferred securities, Ba2/BBB-/---. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Unifrax Corp., $100 million of senior notes due in 2003, B2/B/---. BT Securities.
 
Source: MCM CorporateWatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.

TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
California, $500 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Massachusetts Water Resources Authority, $150 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Michigan, $54.5 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Minnesota, $170 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
New Jersey State Transportation Trust Fund Authority, $712.6 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Chicago O'Hare Airport, $211 million of revenue bonds. Bear, Stearns & Co.
City of Jacksonville, Fla., $61 million of revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, $459.1 million of dedicated tax fund bonds. Dillion, Read & Co.
Municipal Gas Authority of Georgia, $57 million of variable rate demand bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
North Hudson New Jersey Sewer Authority, $103 million of revenue bonds. Paine Webber Inc.
Piedmont Municipal Power Agency, $162.2 million of revenue refunding bonds for South Carolina Electric. J.P. Morgan Securities.
Tampa Aquarium, Fla., $50 million of revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Texas Housing, $175 million of single family revenue bonds. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Walled Lake Consolidated School District, Oakland County, Mich., $130.5 million of general obligation school building and refunding bonds. A.G. Edwards & Sons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); ABO (ASX) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (86%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (86%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (86%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (86%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (86%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (86%); SIC3299 NONMETALLIC MINERAL PRODUCTS, NEC (68%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (67%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (67%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (86%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (69%); UNIFRAX CORP (68%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (67%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (67%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (56%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PREFERRED STOCK (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); BONDS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (86%); PUBLIC DEBT (86%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (69%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (69%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (64%); SCHOOL BONDS (63%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (62%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%); WATER QUALITY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



498 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Job-Creation Rate Is Seen to Accelerate

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
American corporations added jobs at a quicker pace in the last year, according to a survey released yesterday by a management group.
The American Management Association report said that 68 percent of the 1,441 large- and medium-sized companies surveyed had created jobs during the 12 months ended June 30. That was up from 58 percent in the year-earlier survey. 
 In the same period, however, 49 percent of the companies said they had cut jobs.
Over all, the average work force among the responding companies grew by 6 percent, compared with a gain of 4.5 percent in the previous survey.
The association's 9,500 members employ about a quarter of the nation's work force. The group trains managers through seminars, books, periodicals and other materials.
In its most recent annual survey, its 10th, the group found that it was more common for jobs to be trimmed during shuffling operations -- the dropping of a unit or a supplier, for example. Positions were also pared during a reworking of technological processes. It was less common this year for companies to dismiss workers because the demand for goods was lower.
Of those companies reporting job losses, slightly more than half were in wholesale or retail trade or offered business and professional services like legal or accounting work. A little under half were in manufacturing and financial services.
Large companies were more likely than smaller ones to report cutbacks.
By region, the Southwest and West had the highest rates; 56 percent of the companies there reported cuts. Fifty-three percent of companies in the mid-Atlantic region shed jobs, 47 percent of those in New England did so, 46 percent of those in the South did so and 45 percent of those in the Midwest did so.
Job gains were reported throughout the economy.
About 74 percent of the companies offering business and professional services added positions in the last year, up from 68 percent in the previous report.
Wholesale and retail companies were not far off, as 72 percent said they hired new workers in the last year, up from 53 percent. Nearly 70 percent of manufacturers and financial-services companies created jobs.
Nearly 60 percent of the new posts were hourly jobs, and about one-quarter were in professional or technical areas. The results indicate that the new jobs require less supervisory and managerial expertise and more technological ability, the report said.
In all regions of the country, at least 65 percent of companies reported creating jobs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMSY (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8741 MANAGEMENT SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MANAGEMENT ASSN AMERICAN MANAGEMENT GROUP (92%); AMERICAN MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MANAGEMENT ASSN AMERICAN MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT (93%); JOB CREATION (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); MANAGER TRAINING (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); DISMISSALS (73%); RETAILERS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



499 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Get Riady, Get Set . . .

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
I will now stop using Nixon postage stamps. That's because the Nixon Center for Peace and Freedom is raising money by honoring Lee Kuan Yew, the dictator of Singapore.
This sucking-up to a tinpot tyrant with dynastic pretensions who derides as "decadent" the Western ideal of individual liberty was the brainchild of Henry Kissinger and James Schlesinger, in fond remembrance of Lee's anti-Communism during the Vietnam War, and of U.S. corporate superpragmatists who hope Asian governments will smile on their endeavors. 
 My Nixonite friends miss the central point of the ideo-economic struggle going on in today's world.
On one side are governments that put "order" above all, and offer an under-the-table partnership to managers who like arranged outcomes and a docile work force. That cozy cronyism between officialdom and capitalists -- the Chinese word for such "connections" is guanxi -- shortchanges workers and consumers.
On the other side -- our side -- are free enterprisers creating wealth. By combining the profit motive with political freedom, and by using state power to protect individual rights, we reward the work ethic with the merit system. That competitive spirit defeated Communism.
Today the free economy faces a different competitor. The "Singapore model" -- drug-free but freedom-free -- attracts the rigid oligarchies of China and Indonesia, as well as Mideast autocracies. Dictator Lee claims his booming island mall reflects "Asian values," but his unfree enterprise is not the way of Asian democracies from Hong Kong to India.
Nor is corporate statism bred in the Asian bone. Asian immigrants to the U.S. have long been law-abiding exemplars of hard work and self-reliance. Asian-Americans, who have every right to donate to campaigns, have a right to be furious at any racist association of their community with the system of political payola being perpetrated by the Indonesian business mafia and influence-peddlers in the Clinton Administration.
The Buddhist worshiper who was used as a money-laundering front (she was handed her $5,000 in small bills and induced to write a check for that amount to the Clinton campaign) was victimized; whoever conned her belongs in jail. Al Gore's illegal foray into that Buddhist temple in Los Angeles to rip off $140,000 for his campaign introduced a shamelessness into raising money from foreign sources that almost matched Bill Clinton's personal involvement in the arm-pumping of a South Korean for an illegal $250,000 contribution.
Not only was the giant foreign Lippo conglomerate able to slip a few million into the Clinton campaigns; not only did it subsequently plant its longtime operative John Huang in a sensitive U.S. Government post with top-secret clearance to see all our trade negotiating positions; and not only could his Indonesian bosses claim credit back home for a Clinton decision to kill an investigation into Suharto human-rights abuses.
The larger transgression is that Clinton and Gore are importing an infection into the American political system. True, we have our own, home-grown fund-raising predations, which we try to alleviate by requiring full disclosure, and Democrats will surely publicize some G.O.P. chicanery to enlist Common Cause in a soothing "everybody does it."
But foreign favoritism on this Clintonian scale is an economic evil never visited on us before. "Gift-giving is not seen as corruption or bribery," a U.S. executive doing guanxi explained to a Times reporter in Indonesia. "Some time in the future, perhaps, you are going to need to call on your friends for assistance, and one way to build friendship is by gift-giving."
We in a free country see a "gift" to a government official by a company official seeking future favors as a bribe. But in Indonesia and China, where fixing is a fixation and favoritism is favored, "gift giving" avoids the unruliness of competition and the agitation of union organizers.
Our way is better, both morally and practically. Political freedom is a value in itself, while economic freedom -- open competition -- brings greater prosperity to more people.
That's why we must expose and root out the insidious networking of the Clintons and their billionaire Indonesian wheeler-dealers. And that's why all good Nixonites should absent themselves from a fund-raiser doing honor to a dictator who despises a free press and individual liberty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (93%); SINGAPORE (93%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NIXON CENTER (60%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (93%); SINGAPORE (93%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; FINANCES; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (89%); ETHICS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (85%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); ASIAN AMERICANS (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); MONEY LAUNDERING (66%); RELIGION (66%); IMMIGRATION (63%); 

PERSON: RIADY FAMILY; SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



500 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: A Rise in Visitors, a Shortage of Rooms

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
As an unadulterated Yankee fan who was there for the World Series of 1978 and '81, who went to more than 20 games each summer as a teen-ager, and who now lives in Texas, Lisa Swan thought she knew the rules. Series tickets would be tough, but a hotel room?
"Give me a break!" complained Ms. Swan, a 29-year-old computer system manager from Austin who tried for five days, beginning last Monday, to reserve a Manhattan hotel room for Saturday night, and instead ended up staying with a childhood friend in East Rutherford, N.J. 
 "I couldn't find anything under $200 a night, and that was in Westchester or Queens," said Ms. Swan, who paid a scalper $280 yesterday for a ticket to last night's game. "I wanted to stay in midtown and ride the subway to the Bronx, but I guess New York has changed."
To the irritation of baseball fans and wayward travelers, and the delight of many New Yorkers, Ms. Swan is right. While the city is still struggling through a painfully slow recovery from a deep recession, a surge in tourism, business travel and hotel demand that began in 1993 has shown few signs of slowing.
Although the World Series accounts for only a tiny part of the hotel-room squeeze, its timing underscores the problem, coming as it does during the peak month of a year in which more people than ever are visiting New York City.
The heavy demand has meant a business boom, not only for hotel owners, but also for people at restaurants, stores and theaters. They can attribute their good fortune to deeply rooted shifts in the economics, and perhaps even more the psychology, of visiting the nation's largest city.
"Overbuilding has stopped, the hotel tax is down, we've got good international business, the national economy is running better, and all that adds up to good news for New York City," said Xavier S. Lividini, manager of the Mayflower Hotel on Central Park West, one of several Manhattan hotels that have attracted growing numbers of European tourists and tour groups.
Reflecting a pattern of strong demand in the fall, the Mayflower is now fully booked on weekends until Dec. 20, Mr. Lividini said.
Chief among the economic factors boosting travel to New York is the low value of the dollar against the currencies of Germany, France, Italy, Brazil, Japan and other countries. Foreign visitors have also seized upon discount air fares that are more readily available to New York than most other United States cities.
At a time when travel to New York is surging and hotel construction is nearly at a standstill, demand for rooms has kept prices high, even though the hotel occupancy tax was cut in 1994, to 15.25 percent from 20.25 percent.
According to PKF Consulting, a hotel industry research firm, hotel occupancy this year is averaging 79 percent, its highest level in 15 years, and the average price of a room is the highest ever -- $158 a night.
At the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau, whose job for years was to persuade people just to consider vacationing in the city, "the task now is to reassure people that there will be rooms available," said Stephen J. Morello, the president.
To accomplish that, the bureau established a hotel reservation line last year, from Oct. 15 to Dec. 31, and opened it earlier this year, on Sept. 30, because of growing demand. The line, which is in constant contact with 80 hotels in the city, received more than 400 calls on Friday from people seeking last-minute reservations.
Although economic shifts receive a major emphasis in explaining the surge of visitors, experts say the city's improving reputation around the world may be an even larger factor.
"I'm calling it the shiny apple factor," said John A. Fox, vice president of PKF Consulting, who pointed to such things as worldwide publicity for statistics showing a decline in the city's crime and a spate of new television comedies that portray the city as fun, exciting and even friendly.
"These things are hard to quantify, but they are making New York an acceptable destination both inside and outside the United States," he said. "For years, for a lot of people, it simply was not."
Indeed, the city's enhanced reputation is apparently setting it apart from other popular travel destinations in the United States, where gains have been more subdued.
"The fact is that New York is getting more of a lift, and it can't be explained simply by economics," said Jason Bram, regional economist for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. "It has more to do with perception."
Although widespread hotel construction seems unlikely, three years of escalating demand for hotel rooms have prompted a small upturn, and a sharp recalculation of where fashionable New York City hotels should be located. In part because of the scarcity and high cost of land in midtown Manhattan, most of the new hotels that have opened recently, or are being planned, are in lower Manhattan or Brooklyn.
They include the SoHo Grand, a chic 367-room hotel on West Broadway that opened in August, the Renaissance Plaza Marriott, a 356-room hotel being built in downtown Brooklyn, and a 425-room Embassy Suites planned for Battery Park City.
No one expects the supply of hotel rooms to catch up with demand any time soon. "Barring an economic catastrophe for the country, we should continue to see an excellent level of occupancy," Mr. Fox said.
Mr. Bram, of the Federal Reserve Bank, said the hotel squeeze might simply underscore the need of New York City visitors to be resourceful, and, like Ms. Swan, to remember their friends.
"Almost everybody knows someone in New York City or the suburbs," he said. "For people coming at peak periods like this, somebody's couch may be the only answer." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (72%); FRANCE (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY HOTELS (94%); VISITORS BUREAU (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: VISITORS BUREAU (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (72%); FRANCE (67%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LODGING (78%); BASEBALL (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); TRAVEL TICKETS (77%); HOTEL STAFF (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); US DOLLAR (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); SPORTS FANS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); PSYCHOLOGY (63%); AIR FARES (60%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J LISA SWAN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



501 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 2; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE REVIEW;
A Primal Phantasmagoria Not Just for Gamblers

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

DATELINE: UNCASVILLE, Conn.

 BODY:
Mohegan Sun, the spectacular, Indian-theme gambling casino that opened on Oct. 12 in this small town in southeastern Connecticut, is a dense, exhilarating forest of symbols. Trees right beside slot machines. Immense paintings of flowers over card tables. Cryptic Indian signs interspersed with flashing neon numbers. Images derived from nature -- fish, corn, beans -- are set within a context of heightened artificiality created by stage lights, video screens and the merry abstraction that money becomes here. In the casino's food court, towering foam-rubber pine trees have real pine cones attached to them.
To those unfamiliar with either the customs of the Mohegan Indians or the rites of American gamblers, much of this sign language is incomprehensible. What compels that woman to choose this slot machine and not that one? What is the meaning of the mandala that has been fashioned into a shade for that sconce? Who was Uncas? Who cares? Shut up and play cards. 
 It's a pleasure to feel bewildered here. This may present the casino's management with a problem. Mohegan Sun is a place that even the nongambling public can enjoy. On opening night, a spectator immune to the lure of chance could watch a wedding party cavort within the "Wolf Den," a soaring enclosure of fake rocks, their peaks surmounted by howling white wolves, while the Everly Brothers -- live, in person and looking better than you either hoped or feared -- serenaded the happy couple with their 50's hit "All I Have to Do Is Dream." Then the bride kicked off her slippers and everybody broke into the Macarena.
This is a happy place, and an imaginatively realized one. Where else could you find yourself swept into a whirling phantasmagoria of winners and losers, brides and grooms, coins, dice, cards, rocks, wolves, waterfalls, stretched animal skins, forgotten teen-age heartthrobs, cloud machines and attractively decorated restaurants where an international array of one-star food is served with four-star cheerfulness. Don't you hate yourself for lacking the imagination to think up such an outlandish concoction?
The state's second casino, Mohegan Sun is just 10 miles from its competitor, Foxwoods Resort, operated by the Mashantucket Pequots. Developed by Sun International, a South African company, the new casino is on a site formerly used to manufacture parts for nuclear submarines. The overlay of a post-modern pleasure palace atop a base of cold war build-up will suggest to some the plot for a horror movie Steven Spielberg has yet to make. Poltergeist 1996. Ghosts of vanished, noble Indians, angered by the installation of a nuclear power plant on their tribal lands, mutate into a ruthless gang of capitalist entrepreneurs and take Kevin Costner for all he's worth. The casino's design, by the New York architect David Rockwell in association with Brennan Beer Gorman Architects, invites the visitor to think in cinematic terms. It is as ambitious a piece of stagecraft as anyone has realized since the days of Cecil B. DeMille.
You enter the casino through corridors that suggest tunnels. The idea is that you've walked into a cave leading to a secret gathering place where the rock melts away to reveal a clearing. The architecture per se is negligible: a corrugated metal ceiling, some exposed ducts, all painted black to create the receding space of a perpetually nighttime sky. The main gambling room below is a big circle, 360 feet in diameter, divided into quadrants. The mandala form recalls a traditional Mohegan symbol; it also echoes the shape of the traditional Roman basilica.
The quadrants are named after the seasons, and decorated accordingly. Large stands of artificial trees are crowned with plastic leaves, their color ranging from winter white to spring green. A corridor running around the room's perimeter leads to restaurants, specialized gaming rooms, bathrooms and shops. Ceiling decorations and patterns in the carpet lead one through the 13 moons of the Indian year, while large murals depicting tribal life, local vegetation and changing skies illustrate the seasonal theme. In the center of the circle is the Wolf Den, the rocky enclosure where entertainers perform around the clock.
The immense space is unified by a series of large, overhead trusses, made of fake wood, designed to evoke the structure used in Mohegan long houses. Clipped to the trusses are stage lights and simulated stretched animal skins that diffuse golden light into the circular space below. The scale and variety of the decorative elements break up the huge space into areas of intimacy. Most of the new American gambling casinos are architecturally ambitious. But usually the architectural images -- pyramids, water displays -- do not intrude on the casino floor. Mohegan Sun may be the first where the slot machines are actually upstaged by their surroundings.
The effect is by no means as kitschy as it sounds. Clearly the designers have taken great care to learn about the Mohegans. This is not a museum; no attempt has been made to recreate actual Indian buildings or other artifacts. Instead of creating an environment of dubious authenticity, the designers have created an informed and witty collage of stylized Mohegan motifs. The result may be synthetic, but not more so than the current constitution of the Mohegan tribe itself. Several years ago, Sun International assembled the tribe's scattered descendants and financed their application for recognition by the Federal Government. That's why the casino now exists.
The paradox is that whatever its motives for doing so, the casino has actually revived the Mohegans' sense of tribal cohesion. And while the casino's setting is synthetic, it exercises genuine power. The circle of trees evokes memories of cruel children's games, fantasized rituals, tortures, secrets and exclusions. Like the cave, the tree circle recalls architecture's primitive roots. Even if you can't understand the Indian pictograms, you can respond to primal power of place.
The Indian symbols are not the only things that are hard to decipher. The casino itself, as a building type, is a sign that the society at large is trying to interpret.
Is it a sign of prosperity? Communities across the country are looking to casinos to salvage their blighted economies. Is it a sign of decline? The historically aware point to 18th-century Venice as a warning that great world powers typically turn to gambling as they fall. A sign of hope? Who enters a gambling casino without expecting to win? Or one of despair? Don't these people don't have something better to do?
But probably most people are fascinated by the casino for the same reason that they're fascinated by explicit sex scenes in mainstream Hollywood movies, the lyrics of rap songs, the unbuttoned patter on radio talk shows. The casino signifies the shattering of a moral taboo. Anyone old enough to be admitted to a casino grew up in a culture that placed gambling, along with cursing, drinking and prostitution, on the list of Bad Things. Indeed, in most parts of the country, gambling remains illegal. That is why the Indians have captured this market. Legally, Indians exist outside the borders of this country. They are exempt from the laws in which America's moral prejudices have been inscribed.
Yet tribal law prohibits the Mohegans from playing here. And the people you do see hardly look held in the grip of vice. It's a wholesome, family crowd, happily engaged in a pleasant pastime that, even now, moralists still thunder about. There's even an arcade for children, with no money involved, called Kids Quest. In short, gambling has come into our lives under the sign of Evil. Can we afford to inch it over toward the column called Good? Can we afford not to?
Linguistics is one of the strategies used at Mohegan Sun to engineer this shift. By dropping two letters, gambling becomes gaming, a word with a far more respectable aura. The Indian theme is another strategy, evoking, as it does, the history of oppression by European settlers and the lingering need for restitution. The architecture adds to these factors the dimension of sacred space. This is a basilica here. You're in church!
The larger issues raised by Mohegan Sun may fall outside the purview of an architecture review. But it isn't exactly a work of architecture. Like much, perhaps most of American architecture today, it fits more neatly into the category of anthropology. Mr. Rockwell's design is a habitat for tribal behavior. The tribe conducting its rituals here is not the reconstituted Mohegan people. It is the "non-native" Americans lining up to enter the Wolf Den. The tableau is handsome, but it doesn't have much to do with art, for the reason that it doesn't have much to do with life. It's rather about escaping life, about checking out of history into a prehistoric year of 13 lucky moons.
Mohegan Sun is perhaps most fully understood as a symbol of American life in the post-cold-war era. In place of the East-West polarity, we're faced with a vast and growing gulf between winners and losers. Mohegan Sun defends the border between them by denying with great artistry that it exists. It's a big, glamorous wheel of fortune designed to suggest that the difference between winning and losing is just a matter of chance.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the recently opened Mohegan Sun casino in Uncasville, Conn.: fake rocks and trusses with a Mohegan long-house motif in the Summer Pavilion, left, and blackjack players. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times; Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
 
Map of Connecticut highlighting Mohegan Sun Casino. (pg. C15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MOHEGAN SUN CASINO (MONTVILLE, CONN) BRENNAN BEER GORMAN ARCHITECTS LLP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOHEGAN SUN CASINO (MONTVILLE, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; GAMBLING; CASINOS; INDIANS, AMERICAN GAMING (92%); CASINOS (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); CARD GAMES (78%); COLD WAR (74%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (74%); RESTAURANTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (60%); NAVAL VESSELS (60%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%); POWER PLANTS (60%); HORROR FILMS (50%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT STEVEN SPIELBERG (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



502 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-10
 
JAPAN VOTES FOR STATUS QUO
Results from Japan's national elections gave a major victory to the party that has dominated the country for most of the postwar era and that has been most reluctant to open up Japan to change. A1
 
STARK CHOICE IN NICARAGUA
More than six and a half years after they cast the ballots that ended the Sandinista Revolution, Nicaraguans returned to the polls, enduring long delays in a vote offering a stark choice between right and left. A3
 
CLINTON TO ASSURE NATO HOPEFULS
President Clinton will use a campaign speech this week to reassure Central European countries that they will soon be welcome in NATO, officials there say. A4
 
THOUSANDS MARCH IN BELGIUM
Tens of thousands of Belgians marched peacefully in the heart of Brussels in a popular outpouring of anger and frustration over a widening child sex scandal. A6
 
ROCKETS HIT AFGHAN CAPITAL
Rockets slammed into Kabul airport, opening a new phase in the battle for the Afghan capital only 25 days after Islamic militants captured the city. A6
 
DELAYING BOSNIA'S ELECTION
Faced with Bosnian Serb intransigence and logistical nightmares, senior Clinton Administration officials have concluded that municipal elections in Bosnia should be put off again, officials said. A6
 
CLOSELY WATCHED VOTE IN ALBANIA
Voting in local elections that was watched with unusual concern by international observers appeared to go relatively smoothly as the Albanian Government tried to repair relations with the West. A6
 
STUDY FINDS LESS CHILD LABOR
Fewer children appear to be working overseas to make apparel sold in the United States, as companies facing adverse publicity adopt standards barring such labor, the Labor Department has found. A10
 
An Spideal Journal: Pride and peril in speaking Gaelic. A4
 
National A12-15, B7-8
 
DOLE TALKS FINANCE REFORM
Speaking in New Hampshire, Bob Dole urged a reform in campaign finance laws that he blamed for giving President Clinton an unfair advantage. A1
 
CLINTON AIDS PARTY CANDIDATES
Visiting New York and New Jersey, President Clinton, campaigned for Representative Robert Torricelli and attended fund-raising events intended primarily to help House and Senate candidates. A1
 
HOUSE OF CRITICAL ADS
The two major political parties are closing the fall campaign for the House of Representatives with an advertising war. B7
 
A BUSINESSMAN'S MOTIVES
John Huang, one of the most successful fund-raisers for the Democratic National Committee, has had two missions: to increase the political influence of Asian-Americans and to aid his patrons, the Riady family of Indonesia. A1
 
Mr. Dole has also accepted major donations from noncitizens. B8
 
FURY OVER DRUG TRADE
A series of articles in The San Jose Mercury News has confirmed the presumptions of some Californians who felt there was a link between the Federal Government and the crack trade. A14
 
Two men called key drug financiers were not major traffickers. A14
 
COLORADO TO VOTE ON TRAPS
The residents of Colorado, a state with a history of fur trading, are poised to ban lethal trapping. A12
 
RELOCATION PROMPTS IRE
A Federal plan to spend about $18 million relocating 358 families from an area they say was contaminated has reached beyond the Florida panhandle and raised accusations of electioneering. A12
 
G.O.P. TRIES IT AGAIN
Thirty-one Republicans who lost to Democratic Congressional incumbents in 1994 are trying to defeat them again this time, in a much less hospitable political climate. A15
 
Canadian auto workers and General Motors made little progress. A12
 
Metro Report B1-6
 
AN ECONOMY ON THE RISE
The economy of New York City, which has foundered since the recession of the early 1990's, has begun to crawl back toward prosperity, largely because of rising profits on Wall Street. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
Two magazines, two versions of a Nobelist's poem. C13
Gambling and entertainment amid a forest of symbols. C13
Theater: "Fit to Be Tied." C13
Music: Standing in for Gerry Mulligan. C15
"Le Nozze di Figaro." C17
Books: "Plotting Hitler's Death." C16
Television: "Ink." C17
 
Sports C1-11
 
BRAVES' BATS PREVAIL
Andruw Jones, Atlanta's 19-year-old left fielder, homered in his first two at-bats and drove in five runs as the Braves powered their way to a 12-1 victory over the Yankees in Game 1 of the World Series, which returned to the Bronx after a 15-year absence. A1
 
WOODS WINS AGAIN
Tiger Woods, the 20-year-old PGA Tour rookie, won a stirring playoff duel with Payne Stewart yesterday to capture the Disney Classic. It was Woods's second victory in seven events. A1
 
Columns: Anderson on Braves' starters C8
Vecsey on World Series C1
On Baseball C1
Rhoden on Jets C6
Football: Elway works his magic. C5
Jets close, but . . . C6
Reeves inspires, but not quite enough. C7
Hockey: Rangers lose in Lightning's new arena. C2
Soccer: D.C. United wins title. C7
 
Obituaries B9
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
Change the term limits law.
Workfare's missing link.
Tina Rosenberg: Belgium.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Running from the law.
Bob Herbert: In the mouths of babes.
William Safire: Get Riady, get set.
Randy M. Mastro: Busting a cable trust.
 
Chronicle A15
 
Bridge C17
 
Crossword C17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); NICARAGUA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ALBANIA (92%); BELGIUM (88%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); NICARAGUA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ALBANIA (92%); BELGIUM (88%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (73%); CHILD LABOR (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (68%); CITIES (67%); ASIAN AMERICANS (64%); COCAINE (60%); SCANDALS (53%); SEX SCANDALS (53%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



503 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Colorado Likely to Ban Traps Used on Wildlife

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: MORRISON, Colo., Oct. 18

 BODY:
Almost 175 years after Jim Bridger and his buckskin-clad mountain men explored the Rocky Mountains in search of beaver pelts, the residents of modern Colorado are poised to ban lethal trapping in their state.
Voters are expected to approve an amendment to the State Constitution that would effectively prohibit the taking of wildlife in Colorado by snares, poisons, leg-hold traps or so-called instant-kill traps -- the strictest such ban in the West. If the ballot initiative is approved, wildlife would winter in the Colorado Rockies this year without fear of traps for the first time in recorded history. 
 "This is a horrible way to kill wildlife," said Robert W. Angell, an ecologist who leads a group behind the initiative, People Allied With Wildlife, or PAWW. "It no longer has any real purpose in this state. Very frequently an animal caught in a leg-hold trap will chew off its leg. In a noose snare, the struggling animal strangles itself."
Last summer, volunteers collected signatures for the initiative. Holding posters of Alice, a dog from Boulder that lost two legs to leg-hold traps, they quickly collected 100,000 signatures, double the required number.
Colorado's vote, on Nov. 5, is being closely watched across the nation. After years of meeting brick walls in conservative state legislatures, animal welfare groups increasingly seek victories with referendums. This year, voters will also face initiatives to restrict the hunting of bears and cougars in five states and to ban lethal trapping in Massachusetts.
But in Colorado, where the mountain man is central to pioneer mythology, trappers and traditionalists are not going down without a fight. On Oct. 13, at a re-enactment of a mountain man rendezvous, grumbling over the proposed amendment echoed off the adobe walls of the Fort, a restaurant that replicates the fur-trading post built by Charles Bent on the Santa Fe Trail in 1833.
"It's easy to vote against trapping when you buy your meat over the counter," said Bruce Hunter, a machinist who came to the event wearing buckskins, his head covered with the pelt of a bobcat he once trapped. "I hope it doesn't pass, and I bet the ranchers don't want it to pass."
Other opponents have joined the traditionalists. The state association of wildlife biologists has warned that the ban would remove a valuable tool in dealing with outbreaks of disease, like rabies. And leaders of the state's 1,300 sheep ranchers question whether the 6,000 coyotes trapped and killed last year in Colorado outweigh the 14,000 lambs killed by coyotes in the state in the same period.
"You will come out in the morning and find that a lamb has made it to the gate with almost half her hind legs chewed off," said Sandy Snider, the executive director of the Colorado Wool Growers Association, determined to counter every gnawed-paw story with an eviscerated-lamb story.
Colorado ranchers lost about 26,000 sheep, worth about $1.2 million, to predators last year, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. In Arizona, where a public initiative vote in 1994 banned traps and snares from public lands, livestock losses to predators jumped this year. Such stories and numbers do not sway Dennis B. Williams, the president of the Colorado Environmental Coalition, composed of 45 green groups that back the ban.
"Sheep and cattle are species that did not exist in Colorado until we brought them," Mr. Williams said. "If we frame the debate in strictly economic terms, the animals lose every time. The trap is not selective."
The largest user of traps in the state, a Federal program called Animal Damage Control, said fewer than 1 percent of the 3,000 predators it traps are "nontarget" animals.
"Snares and traps are used in specific situations where we have an individual animal that is difficult to catch," said Craig Coolahan, the director for this Department of Agriculture unit, which has 11 full-time trappers in Colorado. "A coyote that has dug a hole under the fence is very difficult to get without a snare."
The efficiency of a wire foot snare in capturing a bear was made clear this summer to Julie A. Hansmire, a Vail Valley sheep rancher. Ignoring her Akbash guard dogs, a pair of bears drove 13 ewes and lambs off a cliff. A third repeatedly raided another herd, killing 26.
"Night after night, he would kill and kill," she said. "He repeatedly rubbed against the shepherd's tent." Referring to her Chilean shepherd, she said: "All summer, Guillermo slept with his clothes on and his rifle over his lap. He was about to quit."
So she called Animal Damage Control. "We got a specialist up there, and he set the snare at 10 in the morning," she said. "By 4 in the afternoon, we had the bear."
Under the proposed ban, the only practical way to kill a predator would be to hunt it, or to trap it in a box and then shoot it. But bears, mountain lions, coyotes and beavers rarely walk into baited boxes.
Practiced by a small group, trapping is dwindling in the Rockies. Last year in Colorado, only 900 trappers bought a "furbearer" licenses, compared with 240,000 people who bought elk-hunting licenses and 750,000 who bought fishing licenses.
Fearing popular support for a sweeping ban, Colorado wildlife officials have been taking smaller steps -- restricting the number of species that can be trapped, imposing seasons and requiring the use of padded leg-hold traps.
Last year, the Colorado Wildlife Commission banned the use of steel jaw traps. In March, trappers will be required to use padded-jaw traps that allow non-targeted species to be released unharmed. It also limited commercial trapping to four months, November through February, and to eight species: badger, bobcat, beaver, muskrat, raccoon, skunk, red fox and coyote. Ranchers would still be able to kill predators year round.
Unappeased by "half measures," Mr. Angell formed PAWW to put the issue to voters.
"Almost every day," he said, "one of our volunteer signature collectors heard of a case of a dog or cat caught in a trap."
"This is far more reaching than just sheep producers," warned Ms. Snider of the Wool Growers Association. "If a coyote or mountain lion comes down and eats Fifi, that's going be tough."
Major Boddicker, a leader of the Colorado Trappers Association, paints a world without traps as a world with wildlife running amok.
"Dead sheep, raccoons tearing through roofs, beavers plugging culverts, people swerving their cars to avoid skunks and rolling over," said Mr. Boddicker, who owns a predator-control company, Colorado's modern inheritor of the Jim Bridger tradition. "Instead of people going out and having a good time, harvesting a renewable resource, we'll just waste 'em with road kills."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Coloradans are expected to approve a ban on the use of snares, poisons and traps for wildlife. Some opponents are these modern-day mountain men at an event in Morrison that featured trapping skills. "It's easy to vote against trapping when you buy your meat over the counter," one man said. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (95%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLORADO ROCKIES (57%); COLORADO ROCKIES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO ROCKIES (57%); COLORADO ROCKIES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO; WESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (95%); COLORADO, USA (95%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HUNTING AND TRAPPING; CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; REFERENDUMS; LAW AND LEGISLATION REFERENDUMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ANIMALS (89%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (78%); SPORT HUNTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); ANIMAL WELFARE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RABIES (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); BALLOTS (72%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (64%); SHEEP FARMING (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



504 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: Pivotal Figures of Newspaper Series May Be Only Bit Players

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 20

 BODY:
As Federal and state drug-enforcement agents closed in on a busy Nicaraguan cocaine broker here 11 years ago, they made him an offer they thought he could not possibly turn down.
Taking note of the Nicaraguan's taste for guns and his reputed ties to the contra rebels who were then fighting the leftist Sandinista Government in his homeland, an official who took part in the undercover operation said, the agents told one of the broker's lieutenants that they wanted 100 kilograms of cocaine and could pay in a currency more precious than cash: black-market M-16 assault rifles, perhaps 5,000 of them. 
 Though the trafficker expressed interest, the official said, the sting never came off. The Nicaraguans could come up with only much smaller amounts of cocaine, and only the lieutenant was arrested. The bigger fish the agents were after, Juan Norwin Meneses Canterero, swam swiftly away.
A decade later, however, Mr. Meneses and another Nicaraguan trafficker, Oscar Danilo Blandon, are at the center of three Federal investigations into the possibility that they sold drugs to help finance the American-backed contra army in the early 1980's, becoming the chief links in a chain that might connect the Central Intelligence Agency to the spread of crack cocaine through America's inner cities.
But while there are indications in American intelligence files and elsewhere that Mr. Meneses and Mr. Blandon may indeed have provided modest support for the rebels, including perhaps some weapons, there is no evidence that either man was a rebel official or had anything to do with the C.I.A. Nor is there proof that the relatively small amounts of cocaine they sometimes claimed to have brokered on behalf of the insurgents had a remotely significant role in the explosion of crack that began around the same time.
Reports of Mr. Meneses's links to the Nicaraguan rebels are not new. In 1986, The San Francisco Examiner published a detailed account of his activities. But the most significant contribution by Mr. Meneses that the newspaper could find was a $5,375 tab he was said to have helped pay at a 1984 dinner in San Francisco in honor of a civilian contra leader, Adolfo Calero. The ties of a few Nicaraguan rebels to drug trafficking were also the subject of close scrutiny by Congress in the late 1980's.
Two months ago, however, another Bay area newspaper, The San Jose Mercury News, set off a furor when it cast the activities of Mr. Meneses and Mr. Blandon in a more lurid light. Its reports described the men as rebel "financiers" and "members of the C.I.A.'s army" who sent millions in drug profits to the insurgents and played a "critical role" in the explosion of crack cocaine in the United States.
The reports quote Mr. Meneses as saying he was in charge of "intelligence and security" in California for the largest contra army, the Nicaraguan Democratic Force, known by its initials in Spanish as F.D.N. They describe Mr. Blandon as "one of the F.D.N.'s founders in California." The two men also "met with C.I.A. agents both before and during the time they were selling the drugs in L.A.," the newspaper wrote.
But in interviews, current and former intelligence and law-enforcement officials, former rebel leaders and contra supporters in California uniformly gave very different descriptions of the Nicaraguans' role.
The rebels' "operation" in California consisted of a small group of expatriate Nicaraguans who mostly met above an auto body repair shop in San Francisco. The contingent eventually opened a tiny office and tried unsuccessfully to raise money among Nicaraguan exiles in the area.
Edward A. Navarro, the body shop owner who organized the group for a time, said Mr. Meneses sometimes appeared at its meetings, standing quietly in the back. The closest the operation came to "security," former members of the group said, was when they took down the sign on their office door after protests by left-wing San Franciscans.
In a telephone interview from Nicaragua, Mr. Calero said he met Mr. Meneses briefly on as many as four visits to California in 1984 and 1985. But he and other former rebels denied that either trafficker ever held positions in the F.D.N.
"This was a case of people involved in the drug world using the movement as a cover," said Leo Lacayo, who ran the contras' office in San Francisco after 1984.
Mr. Calero and other former rebel officials confirmed that Mr. Meneses, 48, and Mr. Blandon, 45, traveled once to Honduras to see the F.D.N.'s military commander, Enrique Bermudez, a former colonel in the National Guard of the dictator Anastasio Somoza Debayle who came up in its ranks just behind Mr. Meneses's brother, Edmundo. Although Mr. Bermudez, like other contra leaders, was often paid by the C.I.A., he was not a C.I.A. agent.
A Clinton Administration official familiar with intelligence reports on Norwin Meneses said that he also appeared to have had other contacts with the contras in Honduras in 1982 or 1983 and 1984, and that he was believed then to have had some involvement in arms smuggling as well as money laundering and drugs. He first appears in Federal Drug Enforcement Administration files in 1976 as a partner in a cocaine shipment from Colombia to Miami and San Francisco.
According to two Government officials, intelligence reports showed that Mr. Meneses was thought to have sent some weapons for the contras on at least one occasion. But the size and nature of the shipment are unclear, the officials said, as is whether he provided the rebels with arms or money at any other point.
"We knew about him, and he obviously knew some people who were contras," one official said. "There is a mention of weapons with him, but not an indication whether it was a standard or large pipeline. There is certainly an inference that he could have been involved in smuggling weapons that could have gotten to some contras."
But four former C.I.A. officials who worked closely with the F.D.N. during the first half of the 1980's disputed the notion that the rebels were even significantly involved in procuring weapons or raising money themselves before Congress temporarily cut their support from the agency in 1984.
In a 1992 trial in Nicaragua in which Mr. Meneses was convicted of trying to smuggle more than 1,500 pounds of cocaine and sentenced to 25 years in prison, a former Sandinista army captain who was his partner in the deal testified that Mr. Meneses had used some of his cocaine profits to finance the contras. But in an interview, a former Nicaraguan official who investigated the case said the Nicaraguan police -- still controlled then by the Sandinistas -- never found any evidence to support that claim.
After narcotics agents for the Drug Enforcement Administration and the State of California were unable to build a strong case against Mr. Meneses in 1985, law-enforcement officials said they approached the trafficker about becoming an informer. He agreed. One agent asked Mr. Meneses if he was working with the C.I.A. Mr. Meneses said he was not. Earlier the agent had also inquired at the C.I.A.'s office in San Francisco directly and was told that it had no qualms about the trafficker's prosecution.
"We called the C.I.A. up and said, 'This is what we're doing -- what do you guys know about him?' " an official familiar with the operation said. "They said: 'We don't know squat. Do what you have to do.' "
Current and former narcotics officials who pursued Mr. Meneses and Mr. Blandon or worked with them later as D.E.A. informers said they never found proof that either of them funneled money to anything but their own bank accounts. Mr. Meneses, contacted in a Nicaraguan prison through his mistress, declined to be interviewed. D.E.A. officials, who continue to work with Mr. Blandon, declined to make him available for comment.
By his own description, Mr. Blandon had a more passing relationship with the insurgents than his former mentor. And although he claimed to have supplied several thousand pounds of cocaine to one of the biggest crack dealers in Southern California, officials said the C.I.A. had no record of Mr. Blandon before he appeared as a central figure in the series in The Mercury News.
According to his own court testimony and three law-enforcement agents familiar with his debriefings as a paid informer for the Drug Enforcement Administration, Mr. Blandon has said that as a used-car salesman and a member of a tiny rebel solidarity group in Los Angeles, he helped raise a few thousand dollars for the insurgents, and later sent them a pickup truck and some supplies. He also said he was told by Mr. Meneses that the contras were sent profits from the first kilograms of cocaine that he gave Mr. Blandon to sell as a neophyte dealer in 1982.
Perhaps more important, though, both the officials and Mr. Blandon himself said he had stopped sending anything to the contras by 1983, when his career took off as one of a handful of cocaine brokers supplying a young man who would become one of the biggest crack dealers in Los Angeles, Ricky Donnell Ross. And several experts on the drug trade said that although Mr. Ross was indeed a crack kingpin, he was one of many.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Juan Norwin Meneses Canterero is at the center of accusations involving contra rebels, drug sales and the C.I.A. (San Jose Mercury News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER (53%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (82%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (82%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; BLACKS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CRACK (COCAINE); COCAINE COCAINE (94%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FIREARMS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%); ARRESTS (68%); CITY LIFE (65%); 

PERSON: MENESES CANTERERO, JUAN NORWIN; DANILO BLANDON, OSCAR; GOLDEN, TIM OSCAR DANILO BLANDON (75%); ADOLFO CALERO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



505 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: A Political Fight Marks a Coming of Age for a Silicon Valley Titan

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: MENLO PARK, Calif., Oct. 18

 BODY:
Think of it as the end of innocence for Silicon Valley.
At 7:30 on a recent Monday morning some 30 chief executives and venture capitalists crowded into the boardroom of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the Valley's most prestigious venture capital firm. The understated corporate decorum was marred only by a huge red and white "No on Prop. 211" banner hanging against the far wall. 
 Under the room's lofty cathedral ceiling all eyes were on a wiry figure with tousled blond hair, a button-down blue shirt and a rep tie. With an unexpectedly deep voice and a laser-like intensity, L. John Doerr, a Kleiner partner, is one of the Valley's most visible figures.
For Silicon Valley's best and brightest, and Mr. Doerr in particular, the battle over California's Proposition 211 -- which would lower the barrier to class-action lawsuits in cases where stock fraud is charged and would leave corporate directors and officers personally liable when juries award damages -- has been an epiphany of sorts. They see the measure as a direct attack on the region of the nation that has created a vast number of new jobs and immense new wealth since World War II.
Where they had once been oblivious to politics, the Valley's top executives have suddenly become impassioned activists, driven by what they see as a threat they believe will cripple the nation's technology heartland.
The lawyers who are pushing the proposition are selling it as a way to defend the savings of retirees from those who, with the help of misinformation or inadequate disclosures of risk, would lure them into the high-flying, hard-crashing world of technology stocks. Both sides are spending freely to make their cases: the executives' group expects to spend up to $35 million, its members say; observers expect the measure's proponents will match that.
Personally for Mr. Doerr, who had been a registered Republican and largely apolitical until earlier this year, Proposition 211 has been a political coming of age. He already had one of the highest profiles in Silicon Valley, a figure whose opinion on the viability of new technologies was crucial to the creation of companies.
As a venture capitalist, Mr. Doerr has been the financial architect of a breath-taking array of high-technology companies, ranging from Sun Microsystems Inc. to the Netscape Communications Corporation. But since last spring, he has taken on a new avocation as a principal organizer of the campaign to stop the measure.
A one-time engineer for the Intel Corporation, Mr. Doerr has made his reputation since 1980 by nurturing technology start-ups that developed into entire new industries. He still frets over details -- but this time, the things that concern him are not about balance sheets or universal resource locators, but political allies.
"I have the backing of the Protestant church," Mr. Doerr told the group with the slightest hint of a smile. "I'm working on the Catholic church.
"In a way this has been a gift," he added. "It has caused the technology community to come together in a way that has never happened before. Andy Grove has taken to this with a religious zeal; everyone is aligned on this issue. The only one missing is Mother Teresa."
Indeed, Mr. Grove, the chairman of giant Intel and a Silicon Valley pioneer, said this weekend that "Proposition 211 has mobilized this industry to an extent that nothing else has since the Japanese threat of the mid-1980s."
Those who have worked with Mr. Doerr in business said that even as a novice political organizer he has been remarkably effective, translating the skills he has long used to build networks of Silicon Valley companies.
"John is the ultimate in networking and he really loves doing this," said Judy Estrin, the president and chief executive of Precept Software Inc. in Palo Alto, Calif., and a board member of Sun Microsystems, Federal Express and Rockwell International.
"Our jobs are so intense that unless it has a direct impact on us we usually don't get involved," Ms. Estrin added. "What Proposition 211 has done is make people realize that our part of the world is not sheltered from everything else in the world."
Proposition 211 was introduced after a new Federal law imposed restrictions on securities lawsuits in U.S. courts that gave companies more legal protection in making financial projections that may later fall short. However, opponents say Proposition 211 was designed so that even if there is only a single California owner of a share of stock in a company it would be possible to file a securities fraud lawsuit against that company in California.
In fact, Proposition 211 is the second round of the battle; the executives' fervor in this campaign can be traced in part to their defeat in the last one. In March, during the California primary election, the Valley's executives spent $11 million, only to see their efforts for a trio of anti-lawyer initiatives go down to defeat.
In the wake of that earlier defeat, a new political consciousness began to take root among the community of computer nerds and M.B.A.'s who have traditionally been more passionate about bits and bytes than banners and ballots. But they are not only working to defeat the measure, they are threatening to move their headquarters out of the state and stop giving financial information to the public if the measure passes.
And Mr. Doerr, like other venture capitalists, is planning to resign his seat on six corporate boards if the campaign against the measure fails.
Trained as an electrical engineer at Rice University, Mr. Doerr, who came to Kleiner Perkins in 1980, bridles at the suggestion that the ballot measure is often seen as a squabble between wealthy lawyers and Silicon Valley moguls. "I don't think this is an argument between the greedy and the wealthy," he said. "This is about jobs and opportunity and information for investors."
Mr. Doerr, who is 45 years old, has taken to his new role with his legendary hyperkinetic style. Last month, he helped persuade President Clinton to oppose the ballot measure, even though it had been drafted by a San Diego lawyer, William S. Lerach, who has been a major financial backer of the President.
A month earlier he had worked his remarkable network of contacts and helped build a stellar list of high-technology executives' endorsements for the President, including Steven Jobs, co-founder of Apple Computer, and such Republicans as Carol Bartz of Autodesk, Ed McCracken of Silicon Graphics and John Young, the former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard. Both Mr. McCracken and Mr. Young had also backed Mr. Clinton in 1992.
Moreover, Mr. Doerr was willing to cross class lines and build a bridge to Silicon Valley's labor unions, overcoming an enmity that has led to bitter divisions in the area.
He approached John Neese the head of the Santa Clara County Building and Trades Council. Mr. Neese has, in turn, had good luck in prying away other union leaders who have traditionally been Mr. Lerach's political allies.
For the union leader, opposing Proposition 211 became a simple economic proposition. "If business isn't doing well, then we hurt," Mr. Neese said.
Not only did Mr. Doerr shift party allegiances and back Mr. Clinton in exchange for the President's opposition to the proposition, but with other Silicon Valley executives, including Mr. Young, Tom Proulx, the co-founder of Intuit, and John Chambers, the chief executive of Cisco Systems, he has created an organization, California Technology Alliance, in a step toward building a bipartisan coalition that Mr. Doerr insists will be both pro-growth and development and pro-education.
The group has already given $500,000 to candidates in this election and Mr. Doerr envisions it as a catalyst for a variety of future issues, including lobbying to make needed investments in local infrastructure.
Mr. Doerr stops short, though, of the idea of forming a new party, or of going any more deeply into politics himself. What he does best, he said, is to start new companies. He is anxious to return to what he refers to as his "day job."
Last Friday, at the end of a grueling week of campaigning Mr. Doerr was clearly worried by a California Field Poll that showed Proposition 211 still ahead, though it had begun losing ground.
Win or lose, he insisted the Valley will never be the same. "Even if it does win, the institutional memory we're creating is significant," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: L. John Doerr, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, is an organizer of the campaign to stop California's Proposition 211. (Darcy Padilla for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); AOL (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (62%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (62%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (62%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (62%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (92%); INTEL CORP (84%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (62%); AOL INC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; REFERENDUMS; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); LAWYERS (73%); DAMAGES (72%); JURY TRIALS (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); POLITICS (70%); WORLD WAR II (68%); REFERENDUMS (68%); CLASS ACTIONS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN; DOERR, JOHN L JOHN DOERR (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



506 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
City Economy Shows Strength
The economy of New York City, which has foundered since the recession of the early 1990's, has begun to crawl back toward prosperity, largely because of rising profits on Wall Street. In the first half of this year, the city's production of goods and services grew at an annual rate of 2.2 percent, which is below the national average of 3.3 percent but still higher than the rate for the first six months of any year since 1988. [Page A1.]
 
A surge in tourism, business travel and demand for hotel rooms in New York City that began in 1993 has shown few signs of slowing. [B6.]
 
So, What About That Stadium?
It has become, at a time of baseball mania in New York, the issue that dare not speak its name: will the Yankees leave the Bronx? Politicians who a few months ago were tripping over themselves to guess now recoil into no-comment mode. But the stadium question has become profoundly different from what it was six months ago when it dominated headlines, because the Yankees have become a different team in the hearts of New Yorkers. [B1.]
 
The Yankees lost the opening game of the World Series against the Atlanta Braves. [A1.]
 
Inmates Denied Treatment
When it opened last fall, New York State's new drug program for prisoners was supposed to represent a leap in thinking about criminal justice. The center would be the state's first attempt to divert about 3,400 addicted felons a year away from teeming prisons and into treatment. But a year after the center opened, hundreds of beds remain empty. That is because the power to decide which defendants can be sentenced to the center rests with prosecutors, not judges. And prosecutors have overwhelmingly refused to allow prisoners to participate. [B1.]
 
Schools Get a Second Shift
Just before noon at Richmond Hill High School, seniors and juniors, ending their school day, stream out of one side of the Queens school and freshmen and sophomores arrive through another entrance to start theirs. The Board of Education has staggered daily schedules at many crowded schools, with some students arriving and leaving earlier than others. But only a few high schools have Richmond Hill's schedule, known as split sessions, which separate underclassmen and upperclassmen. [B1.]
 
Campaigns and Consequences
Do those candidates who are campaigning against immigrants know what they are doing? More to the point, are they looking ahead, past, say, Nov. 5? Maybe. Maybe they figure the votes are with them in electoral perpetuity. Or maybe what is happening now in this country will someday stand out as the most remarkable demonstration ever of the principle of unintended consequences. At least that is how it looks in California, where the immigrant wars are red hot. Metro Matters by Joyce Purnick. [B1.]
 
Excavation Brings Debate
A team of archeologists stumbled across a trove of ancient artifacts during the excavation of a lot at Broadway and Maiden Lane, possibly the remnants the long-sought Dutch outpost that Peter Stuyvesant established here more than three centuries ago. But the State of New York has begun moving ahead with its own plans for the property: a $24 million office building. [B5.]
 
Teen-Ager Charged in Slaying
As his mother sobbed in the courtroom, a 16-year-old was ordered held without bail on charges that he strangled a Long Island high school student. [B6.]
 
REGION
 
Clinton Campaigns in Region
In a drive for a Democratic Congress, President Clinton campaigned in New Jersey to support the Senate campaign of Representative Robert G. Torricelli and then pushed on to fund-raisers in Tarrytown and Manhattan intended primarily to help House and Senate candidates. [A1.]
 
In the race for United States Senate from New Jersey, Representative Robert G. Torricelli and Representative Richard A. Zimmer each picked up endorsements. [B6.]
 
Rain Leaves Wide Damage
The sun peeked out, floodwaters receded, transit and travel resumed and the World Series finally got under way as the metropolitan area's worst rainstorm in years churned off, leaving 90,000 homes without power and four storm-related deaths. [B5.]
 
CONNECTICUT
 
Zeroing In on a Glass
In the courtroom where Alex Kelly is on trial for rape, both the prosecution and the defense have focused on a teen-age drinking game called Quarters. Reporter's Notebook. [B4.]
 
A Casino Even for Nongamblers
Mohegan Sun, the spectacular, Indian-theme gambling casino that opened on Oct. 12 in Uncasville, Conn., is a dense, exhilarating forest of symbols. Trees right beside slot machines. Immense paintings of flowers over card tables. To those unfamiliar with either the customs of the Mohegan Indians or the rites of American gamblers, much of this sign language is incomprehensible. But it's a pleasure to feel bewildered here. Mohegan Sun is a place that even nongamblers can enjoy. Architecture Review, the Arts. [C13.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); PRISONS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (85%); HIGH SCHOOLS (85%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); POLITICS (73%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); SENTENCING (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (65%); FELONIES (64%); JUDGES (63%); ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



507 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2077 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE CONDUIT;
Fund-Raiser for Democrats Now Faces Harsh Spotlight

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JAMES STERNGOLD 

 BODY:
In 1986, when John Huang arrived in Los Angeles as the chief representative of one of Indonesia's wealthiest families, he brought Asian-American business leaders some advice: with skillful organization and well-targeted campaign contributions, they could gain influence to match their new wealth.
Early this year, after an undistinguished career in banking and a brief, frustrating stint as a Commerce Department official, Mr. Huang returned to California and heeded his own counsel. He became one of the most successful fund-raisers for the Democratic National Committee, tapping Asian-American sources neither party had called on. 
 And now Mr. Huang, 51, has found himself, and his cause, at the focal point of far more attention than he ever imagined. He is at the center of Republican attacks over foreign contributions to the Democrats -- including an illegal $250,000 donation from a South Korean company that was later returned -- and his own party has suspended him from any further fund raising until an investigation is completed.
Interviews with Mr. Huang's colleagues and competitors in recent days suggest that in each phase of his career he has been a man with two missions: to increase the political influence of Asian-Americans and to aid his patrons, the Riady family of Indonesia, which controls the Lippo Group, a major financial powerhouse in Southeast Asia. What is being questioned now is where the one role ended and the other began, and who this highly regarded member of the Chinese-American community has really been serving by cultivating influence in Washington. Republicans have called loudly for an independent counsel. Some Asian-Americans have been quietly asking whether Mr. Huang's activities, no different in many respects from those of any other political fund-raiser, are being regarded suspiciously because he is Asian-American.
The Republican Presidential candidate, Bob Dole, is arguing that Mr. Huang -- who was naturalized as an American citizen 20 years ago -- was an agent of foreign influence. "We cannot allow the political influence of any American to be outweighed by foreign money," Mr. Dole said. But the picture of Mr. Huang's career that emerges from the interviews is more complex. At the Commerce Department he sat in on none of the important strategy meetings about Asia -- but he did show up in the Oval Office for private meetings between President Clinton and James Riady. So far there is little sign that any Government policy -- affecting Indonesia or the Riadys' far-flung business interests -- was changed because of Mr. Huang. But there is evidence that in his drive for donations, Mr. Huang at a minimum skirted the legal limitations on fund raising and ignored the cardinal rule of campaign finance: Know the real source of your contributions.
Mr. Huang himself has remained out of view and the Democratic National Committee has deflected all requests for interviews with him. Appearing on CBS' "Face the Nation" yesterday, the chairman of the D.N.C., Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, was pressed on when Mr. Huang would answer questions in public. "I'm certain that it will be done," Mr. Dodd said, but later seemed to hedge a bit, saying, "We'll try and make him available to you."
Mr. Huang was born in China, but raised in Taiwan, where he served in the air force before attending the University of Connecticut in 1969. In 1972 he started working in banking, first in Washington, then in Louisville, Ky., and Memphis. He moved to Hong Kong, and soon jumped to the banking operations run there by the Lippo Group, the Riadys' business empire. Then he joined the Worthen Bank of Little Rock, Ark., in which the Riady family held a large stake, before he was moved to Los Angeles in 1986 to help run the Lippo Bank, a small institution owned by James Riady, who had worked in Little Rock, where he became friendly with Bill Clinton. Mr. Huang quickly established himself in Los Angeles -- in part by using the Lippo Group's name and money -- as a prominent member of the Asian-American community and a member of numerous civic organizations.
"He always had this vision that the Chinese-American community had not been active enough in politics and that our interests were being ignored," said Charles Woo, the chief executive of P. C. Woo, which produces Megatoys. "He always said that with donations of money the political establishment would pay attention to us. I admire him a lot for that, and so did a lot of other people."
Among the issues Mr. Huang concentrated on were immigrants' rights and helping Asian-American businessmen build networks that would increase their influence.
Mr. Huang's career at Lippo Bank, which has four branches in California, was conspicuously less successful than his efforts in politics. The bank has had run-ins with regulators for poor management, bad loans and discriminatory lending practices. And its performance has been desultory at best. Lippo Bank lost $3 million last year, and in its best year, 1993, it earned just $1 million.
"If James were here they would have grown substantially," said Len Rushfield, the executive vice president of a consulting company in Los Angeles and a friend of James Riady, the son of the Lippo Group's chairman and its No. 2 official. "John's focus was different. It was not so much on making the bank a bank, it was representing the Lippo Group here."
 
At Commerce: Quiet and Frustrated
In its early days, the Clinton Administration, already critical of Indonesia's treatment of dissidents in East Timor, threatened to terminate Jakarta's special trade preferences unless it improved its record. The Riadys saw a role for themselves as intermediaries between the Administration and the Indonesian Government. By late 1993, working through Mr. Huang, Administration officials said, James Riady was pressing to meet the key members of the Cabinet who had a voice in the decision, including United States Trade Representative Mickey Kantor and Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown. Lower-level trade officials had already seen Mr. Riady in Jakarta; Mr. Kantor said last week that he and his deputy, Charlene Barshefsky, refused, as did Mr. Brown.
Soon thereafter Mr. Huang decided to seek a job at Commerce; some Riady family associates say he was "placed" there, but none of his colleagues can recall who proposed him as deputy assistant secretary for international economic policy.
The one official who does recall pressing senior Commerce officials to hire Mr. Huang is Maria Haley, a friend of President Clinton's and of Mr. Huang's from Arkansas, who helped place several Asian-Americans in the Clinton Administration. "You help the people who bring you to power," Ms. Haley, now a director of the Export-Import Bank, said in an interview last week.
Mr. Huang's handwritten financial disclosure report shows that the pain of taking a pay cut for a Government job was eased by a farewell gift from the Riady family: $788,750 in "salary, bonus and severance" from Hip Hing Holdings, a Riady-family property firm in Los Angeles.
At the Commerce Department Mr. Huang recused himself from issues affecting Indonesia and his former employer. But if he had hoped to delve into the major initiative of the department -- a focus on the "Big Emerging Markets" of China and the rest of Southeast Asia -- he was soon disappointed. His office was not involved.
By all accounts, most of Mr. Huang's tasks were administrative -- personnel issues, budgets, preparing Congressional testimony for senior officials. "He was incredibly quiet," one of his superiors recalled last week. "This is a guy who never asked to go to a meeting, never overtly sought to involve himself in policy." The exception to that rule was dealing with Taiwan: Mr. Huang's office was asked to take up the problems of American companies seeking to get a piece of a major nuclear project there, chiefly because China would react badly if the same officials dealing with Beijing were also visiting Taipei. He visited Taipei twice.
Mr. Huang held a "Top Secret" security clearance, but appears not to have had access to truly sensitive material about China, the role of corruption in major deals, and intelligence analysis of foreign governments and companies.
But at least once during his tenure at Commerce Mr. Huang found himself in the Oval Office -- on Sept. 13, 1995, with James Riady. Bruce Lindsey, the deputy White House counsel, who also attended the meeting, called it a "social visit." Soon thereafter Mr. Huang asked Mr. Lindsey for help getting a job at the Democratic National Committee. By early December he was packing his desk at the Commerce Department.
"The man was frustrated by his lack of involvement in matters he thought were in his purview and the best use of his background," said one senior official, recalling Mr. Huang's comments as he left the department.
 
The Fund-Raiser: Busy in California
By early January, now a vice-chairman of the D.N.C. for finance, Mr. Huang was back in California, holding meetings in San Francisco's Chinatown and telling supporters he wanted to raise more than $3 million in Asian-American contributions for the Presidential campaign. "We have to bring ourselves into the political arena and let the rest of the country as a whole understand the role Asian-American communities are playing and will be playing in the coming century," he said at one meeting on Jan. 8, according to local press reports at the time.
To reach that goal, Mr. Huang appears to have violated election law on at least one occasion. He brought in a $250,000 contribution from the United States' subsidiary of a South Korean company called Cheong Am, a maker of electronic display boards. But its American subsidiary has generated no revenue, and taking money from a foreign company -- even if it is funneled through an American unit -- is illegal. When The Los Angeles Times reported the contribution, it was given back. The company's Los Angeles office has since been cleared out and its chief, John Lee, who met Mr. Clinton briefly at a fund raiser after making his contribution, has not been seen for some time.
Mr. Huang and Maria Hsia, a prominent Los Angeles immigration consultant with whom he had worked on Democratic events in the 1980's, put together other major California projects: a big fund raiser this summer in Century City, attended by Mr. Clinton, and another fund raiser attended by Vice President Al Gore at a large, Chinese Buddhist Temple in Los Angeles on April 29.
The event at the temple has raised a number of questions. The temple is tax-exempt, and that status makes it legally questionable for political fund raisers. After recent press reports the Democratic Party announced that it would reimburse the temple for the $15,000 the event cost.
Moreover, a lawyer for the temple, Peter Kelly, a former chairman of the California Democratic Party, confirmed that a nun from an affiliated temple in Texas reported last week that she had been handed $5,000 in cash and then asked to write a check to the party to conceal the real donor's identity, a clear campaign finance law violation. The temple is investigating, he added.
Officials at the Hsi Lai Temple also confirmed that some monks and nuns made donations, but said they possessed the means to do so from teaching and lecturing. The temple has also been popular with other Democratic politicians, including Representative Patrick J. Kennedy of Rhode Island, the son of Senator Edward M. Kennedy. Representative Kennedy visited twice this year in what the temple says were nonpolitical meetings.
The Riady family has not contributed to the D.N.C. for several years, records show; James Riady is no longer living here, and thus is barred from contributing.
One question facing the Federal Election Commission now is whether the Riadys' acted through proxies. Arief Wiriadinata is often referred to by Republicans as a "gardener" -- he appears to be a landscape architect -- and his wife, Soraya, is the daughter of a now-deceased founder of the Lippo Group with close ties to President Suharto of Indonesia. They contributed more than $400,000, in a series of gifts, earlier this year, including nearly $300,000, that were apparently made after they left Virginia and returned to Jakarta. The legality of that contribution is now one of several under investigation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (88%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;INDONESIA; UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (88%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; FINANCES; ELECTIONS; ETHICS; ELECTION ISSUES ; ASIAN-AMERICANS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DISCRIMINATION ASIAN AMERICANS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ETHICS (63%); 

PERSON: RIADY FAMILY; SANGER, DAVID E; STERNGOLD, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB; HUANG, JOHN ; RIADY FAMILY BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



508 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: Speaking of the Yankees, What About That Stadium?

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
It has become, at a time of baseball mania in New York, the issue that dare not speak its name: will the Yankees leave the Bronx? Will they get the $1 billion stadium proposed for the West Side of Manhattan? Politicians who only a few months ago were tripping over themselves to guess now recoil into no-comment mode. The focus is on the World Series, they say, and everything else can wait.
"Let's not fight over the stadium during the period of time in which we are having such success," said Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani at a City Hall news conference last week. A spokesman for George M. Steinbrenner 3d, the Yankees' principal owner, said he was similarly focused on the fundamentals. "The Yankees have brought back a spirit to New York that's amazing," said the spokesman, Howard Rubenstein. "That's as far as he'll go in any discussion of the future." 
 But even in quiescence the stadium question has become profoundly different from what it was six months ago when it dominated the headlines, because the Yankees, by winning in a big way in the postseason, have become a different team in the hearts and minds of New Yorkers. In the swirl of politics and passions involved in any major sports stadium decision, fan emotions are always a wild card, often a determining one, sports industry experts say. And in New York, those emotions are now fully engaged and in play.
"You ought not to make 30-year decisions based on a short-term success or failure of a team," said Marc S. Ganis, president of Sportscorp, a Chicago-based consulting company that works with government agencies and teams on arena issues. "Unfortunately it happens all the time."
For the Yankees, the surge in local feeling introduces numerous variables that fans, politicians and sports industry experts like Mr. Ganis said would emerge only when postseason play ends and the stadium question re-emerges. For one thing, thousands of people are being drawn back to the Yankees' 73-year-old stadium in the Bronx and could come away with new feelings about the team and its historic place in New York. Winning teams, especially if they win the World Series, almost always see big jumps in attendance, which could undermine Mr. Steinbrenner's claim that the team's location is a problem.
But there also are tantalizing hints that Mr. Steinbrenner has been studying up on how the emotional-fan card might be played -- as it was in Texas for the Rangers, for example.
The Rangers galvanized fans in 1989 by signing the pitcher Nolan Ryan just before the season began. Attendance shot up as the team went on to have its first winning season in three years. A year later, the voters overwhelmingly approved a new stadium in a referendum and a new tax to pay for it.
"It attracted a lot of attention and made people more conscious of baseball, and then they were more receptive to the discussions of the economic impact on the community," said Richard Greene, the Mayor of Arlington, the Rangers' hometown. "Once you had their attention, you could help them understand why we didn't want them to move."
The Rangers' story caught Mr. Steinbrenner's attention in particular.
"I have discussed our deal very thoroughly with George Steinbrenner," Mr. Greene said. "Last year I sat with him through two games, and most of our conversation was how we did the ball park deal -- he was very complimentary."
People who know Mr. Giuliani also say that the Mayor will almost certainly leap into the postseason Yankees celebrations with his usual gusto. Mr. Giuliani led a ticker tape parade down Broadway in 1994 when the Rangers won the Stanley Cup as National Hockey League champions, and offered to fete the Knicks at City Hall even when they lost in the National Basketball Association championship series the same year. This year, those people say, watch for a bit more.
"If the Yankees win, the Mayor might be more likely to jump in and say, 'We need the Manhattan stadium,' because then the fan is not going to say, 'Why are you giving a billion dollars to them?' " said one government official who has worked closely with Mr. Giuliani and who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Consultants retained by the Yankees, the city and the state said in April that the best alternative for the team was a 70,000-seat domed multipurpose stadium that could be built in Manhattan west of Pennsylvania Station at a cost of $1.06 billion, which would make it by far the most costly sports arena ever built.
But since the Yankees' lease in the Bronx does not expire until 2002, rumors have regularly surfaced about alternatives, from the New Jersey Meadowlands to Tampa, Fla. One plan would link the new stadium to a bid to bring the Olympics to New York City in 2008.
Sports industry experts say the Seattle Mariners probably offer the closest parallel to the Yankees' stadium saga. Last year, at the start of what looked to be another lackluster season in Seattle, local boosters and business officials began a campaign to replace the old Kingdome with a new stadium. The effort looked doomed. A public opinion poll in the spring showed only 33 percent of residents in favor of the idea. The Mariners said they would leave and seemed likely to make good on the threat.
But then, late in the season, the Mariners caught fire. They roared into the playoffs and beat the Yankees. People fell in love again. The measure lost narrowly, but was taken to the Washington State Legislature, which immediately approved a package to build a new stadium and keep the team. Opinion polls suggested by then that the Mariners' fans would have had it no other way.
"Had the team been not so on fire and the region not so completely focused on baseball, I am doubtful that our elected leadership would have found a will to make it happen," said Sue Tupper, a public relations professional who led the campaign for the new stadium.
The Toronto Blue Jays got financing for the Skydome in early 1986, just a few months -- coincidentally or not -- after winning the American League East division championship for the first time in the club's history. In professional football, the San Diego Chargers were able to win approval for a major stadium renovation after their first appearance in the Super Bowl, in 1995.
One major difference between those cases and New York's, however, was that the arguments for new parks or rehabilitations generally grew louder as the teams performed well. In New York, it has been the opposite case, with each new Yankee success serving to stifle talk of a new ball park.
Mr. Steinbrenner, who had been widely expected to announce last spring that the Yankees would leave the Bronx, has repeatedly postponed any announcement since then, and has said most recently that a decision on the team would come no earlier than November. The Giuliani administration, which had similarly been on a fast-track schedule this spring to hire a financial adviser on the stadium issue, let the matter slide until late August.
Fans say the motivations to suppress are clear enough. At a time of boundless hopes for victory, the stadium is a reminder of a potentially devastating loss -- for the Bronx, if the team leaves for Manhattan; for the city, if the team leaves for New Jersey; for the whole region, if the team moves away entirely.
Other fans say they believe that success will serve the status quo and keep the Yankees where they are by proving to New York and the world that the team, and the ball park, still work.
"With them winning, most likely they're going to stay up there -- that's my opinion," said Tommy Bamundo, a 44-year-old postal worker from Brooklyn. "Next year they're going to be in contention, the people are going to go out," he added. "Maybe they're going to have capacity for the games now they see they have a competitive team."
Other fans are fighting back now. A group called the Eternal Vigilance Society filed a lawsuit on Thursday in State Supreme Court in the Bronx against the Yankees' owners and the city arguing that the Yankees name and image are so indelibly wedded to New York as to confer a kind of ownership by residents. The group's attorney, John Nicholas Iannuzzi, said he had no doubt that the team's new success, as wielded by Mr. Steinbrenner, would haunt the city in the months to come.
"Now that he's got the Yankees in the World Series he can really put the fire to the feet of the Mayor and the city," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Yankee Attendance Through the Years" tracks regular-season attendance, annually, since 1903. (Source: The New York Yankees) (pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WORLD SERIES; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; STADIUMS; YANKEE STADIUM (NYC) STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); BASEBALL (91%); MAYORS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (89%); POLITICS (89%); SPORTS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION (87%); SPORTS FANS (78%); APPROVALS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); STEINBRENNER, GEORGE M 3D RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



509 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: WALL ST. PROFITS LEAD A RECOVERY IN NEW YORK CITY

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
The economy of New York City, which has foundered since the recession of the early 1990's, has begun to crawl back toward prosperity, largely because of rising profits on Wall Street.
In the first half of this year, the city's production of goods and services grew at an annual rate of 2.2 percent, which is below the national average of 3.3 percent but still higher than the rate for the first six months of any year since 1988. As a result, in the first nine months of 1996 the city government reaped 15 percent more from its personal income tax than it did in that period last year. 
 The city has still not regained the jobs it lost in the recession, but it has made progress. From January to August, 32,000 new private jobs were generated in the city, officials said; in the same period last year, only 9,000 were created.
Also this year, record numbers of tourists are visiting the city, sending the hotel occupancy rate to the highest level in 15 years. Revenues from the city's hotel tax increased 17 percent in the first eight months of the year, even though the tax rate actually dropped.
The improvement is showing up in smaller indicators as well. The Brooklyn Union Gas Company, for example, said that customers were paying their bills 10 percent faster this year than they were last year. And the number of help-wanted advertisements in newspapers has increased 13 percent, city officials said.
Some sections of the local economy, particularly manufacturing, have not rebounded from the recession, which pummeled the city far harder than it did the country as a whole. And economists warned that the city's recovery was tied to the boom on Wall Street, adding that if interest rates were to rise or the stock market stumbled badly for that or other reasons, then financial services might slump, and the city's economy could follow.
Still, the economists said the slow growth was a relief after years of gloom. Besides the surge on Wall Street, which has led to higher profits in banking and securities firms, the city is benefiting from upturns in the communications, entertainment and software industries, they noted.
"It is shaping up as a pretty good year for New York City," said John L. Wieting, regional commissioner for the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. "You are seeing added strength if we look at the past year. The economy is pushing ahead."
The jump in tax revenues has surprised city officials and might allow Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to scale back proposed budget cuts, a move that could benefit him as he starts campaigning for re-election next year. In the first three months of the city's fiscal year, which began on July 1, the city collected $289 million more in taxes than it had expected, officials said.
The new spate of improved economic figures certainly does not indicate that the city is entering an era of robust expansion. It is a sign of how poorly the city fared in the recession that many economists and fiscal monitors are hailing even this new, sluggish growth.
Economists noted that while new jobs were being created, more people were entering the work force. As a result, the city's unemployment rate has not dropped below 7 percent in years. It was 8.6 percent in August; nationally, the rate was 5.1 percent.
The city lost 361,000 jobs in the recession, a 10 percent drop in its work force. Since the recession officially ended in the city in November 1992, it has recovered only about 81,000 of those. As a whole, the country quickly gained back all the jobs it had lost in the recession. Part of the explanation is the continuing cuts in government budgets. Since the recession, the city has actually added 141,000 private jobs, while the government has shed 60,000 positions.
In an interview, Mr. Giuliani argued that the recent expansion validated his economic policies, though he acknowledged that the city still trails the rest of the country in job creation.
"It is almost all good news for the city, given where it was," he said. "The difference between then and now is that in those days, as America was gaining jobs, New York was losing jobs. We don't gain them at quite the same rate as the rest of America, but at least we are moving in the same direction."
The Mayor's Democratic rivals put the opposite spin on the same numbers.
"Even with this good news, we are way behind the curve in relation to the national growth rate," said the City Comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, who is a potential mayoral candidate.
The State Comptroller, H. Carl McCall, said: "The economy is improving. The risk is that it's coming from one sector, financial services, that is volatile."
In August, the Mayor ordered $500 million in cuts to the city's $33 billion budget to help close projected budget gaps for the rest of the decade, stirring criticism from some City Council members. The news that the city took in an extra $289 million in tax revenues in the first three months of the fiscal year could step up the pressure to increase spending.
The Mayor and his aides played down the importance of the money, saying that a rise in tax revenues would have to continue for many more months before it would alleviate the city's chronic budget problems. They also said that some of the extra revenue had come from one-time audits and programs that encouraged businesses and property owners to pay their taxes in advance.
"This is too early in the year to be overly optimistic or pessimistic about whatever happens with taxes," Mr. Giuliani said.
Councilman Herbert E. Berman, a Democrat of Brooklyn who is chairman of the Finance Committee, said there would be calls from some members to spend more. But he said that the city would have to plug some holes in the budget before the end of the fiscal year, and that the money should be reserved for that.
"The thing to do right now is respect the fact that we adopted a budget that has risks, and see which of these risks become a reality," Mr. Berman said.
Some fiscal monitors who had attacked the Mayor earlier this year for not cutting the budget enough praised him last week for putting the extra revenues aside.
"For the first time in a long time the city is getting a head start on addressing its long-term budget problems," said Robert A. Kurtter, a vice president at Moody's Investors Service, a Wall Street bond-rating firm. "It is positive for the city over all."
Mr. Kurtter questioned whether the city's economy was actually performing better than it appeared, saying that the statistics might miss some activity. "Clearly, New York has a greater disparity of wealth than exists in many places," he said. "But it's more than that. New York has a larger underground economy, so there is more hidden employment here than elsewhere.
"Right now, it is underperforming, but there are strengths in this economy, and there is opportunity."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "A CLOSER LOOK: New York City Economic Indicators" tracks economic growth and unemployment, from 1994 through the second quarter of 1996. Also tracked are hotel occupancy and retail sales figures, since 1988. (Sources: U.S. Department of Commerce/Bureau of Economic Analysis, New York City Comptroller's Office) (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (67%); NG (LSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (67%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (67%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (67%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (67%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); STATISTICS (77%); BONDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); JOB CREATION (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (69%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



510 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Whoever Fixed The Field Is Fired!

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY 

 BODY:
ALL night and all day, the limber-hipped disco-dancing grounds crew struggled to dry off the Yankee Stadium field so the World Series could open.
Today all these worthy laborers are likely to be unemployed, along with assorted advance scouts, pitching coaches and front-office personnel who had anything to do with the Yankees' 12-1 skunking by the Braves last night. 
 For this they dried off the Stadium? Somebody even called in an air strike on the Stadium. No, it was not Donald Fehr of the players' association or Richie Phillips of the umpires' association making a definitive labor statement. It was merely two helicopters brought in to dry off the field with the whir of their rotary blades.
The midday assault by baseball's air force helped blast away some of the water left from Saturday's monsoon that pushed back the opening of the World Series.
"Yesterday at 1 P.M. it was puddling," Bill Murray, the executive director for baseball operations with Major League Baseball, said of Yankee Stadium's field. "Last night it was under water. But the grounds crew did a great job. They put extra tarpaulins in the outfield and steered the water to the open plugs."
A few hours of bright sun in the morning did not hurt. And Bob Wilkinson's grounds crew (those guys do more than dance to the music of "Y.M.C.A." during the fifth-inning sweep) dried off the infield. And then Greg Murphy, the president of Major League Enterprises, authorized paying for two city helicopters to dry off the grass.
Four hours before game time, Bobby Cox, the former Yankee who manages the Braves, came out to check out the field and met up with Joe Torre, the Brooklyn native who manages the Yankees. They greeted each other with the hearty laughs and comfortable body language of two baseball lifers who know enough to enjoy a World Series while they are in it.
"Center field is a little spongy but right field and left field are all right," Torre told Cox.
After Torre departed, Cox sat on the top step of the dugout and promptly felt some left-over rain seep into his uniform pants. He had seen more water than that. Everybody says that if you're going to have a rainout, it's good to have it in San Francisco or New York. But Saturday's rain had been so heavy that Cox had been confined to quarters.
"There weren't any cabs and all the restaurants were jammed up, so we had to eat right in the hotel," he said, sounding a trifle disappointed.
The field was so dry by game time that Darryl Strawberry did not even hydroplane as he made a skidding catch. By then, the Braves had called in their heavy artillery.
Andruw Jones whacked a home run in the second inning to become, at 19, the youngest player ever to hit a home run in the World Series, more than a year younger than Mickey Mantle, who did it in 1952. On the Mick's birthday, no less, Jones promptly whacked another homer one inning later.
"Andruw Jones has just become the second youngest player ever to hit a home run in the World Series," announced Rich Millet, an assistant football coach at Bethpage High on Long Island, sitting directly in front of the auxiliary press seats in left field.
"Jones is a little older than he was when he hit the first one," Millet reasoned.
By that time, the fans had nothing much to do but chant "We want rain!" and indeed some more rain did fall, much too late to change the outcome.
Baseball could avoid some of the potential for foul weather in late October by getting the Series over a week or two early, but the terribly greedy players and the wonderfully generous owners are locked into escalating wages and need elongated playoffs to pay the bills.
The real danger is that the unusually strong storm could be used by the new Sun Belt types in baseball to make a push for a domed World Series or a southern World Series, played in some city that did not earn the World Series.
Don't laugh. A trial balloon was lofted early this year by Jerry Colangelo, the major domo of a team in Phoenix that will not play its first game until 1998. Colangelo, a normally perceptive basketball executive, emphasized that he was only thinking out loud, but the specter remains that he is not alone in his thinking.
Television already calls the shots on starting times. How long do we have until the networks dictate indoor games so they won't have to adjust to rain delays -- or have to take on the sacred Monday Night Football?
Can you imagine what would be happening in New York at the moment if the Yankees were playing in their first World Series in 15 years -- but the games were being held in some hideous dome or outdoors in the Sun Belt? The city would delegate some of its finest zealots to heave some AA batteries in foreign ports. Instead, the Yankees took a bombing on the Mick's birthday.
Another loss like this and George Steinbrenner is going to start riding elevators at random like a latter-day Captain Ahab, seeking the alleged men who allegedly roughed him up after a loss the last time the Yankees played in the Series, 15 years ago. Somebody must pay for this.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Atlanta's Marquis Grissom sliding home to score the Braves' fourth run last night as Yankee catcher Jim Leyritz awaited a tardy throw. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times) (pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTA BRAVES; NEW YORK YANKEES ATLANTA BRAVES (91%); ATLANTA BRAVES (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES; NEW YORK YANKEES ATLANTA BRAVES (91%); ATLANTA BRAVES (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WORLD SERIES; WEATHER; RAIN BASEBALL (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (75%); BOMBINGS (75%); HELICOPTERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); AIR FORCES (69%); RESTAURANTS (60%); 

PERSON: VECSEY, GEORGE GREGORY E MURPHY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



511 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

New York Economy Starts to Bounce Back
The economy of New York City, which has foundered since the recession of the early 1990's, has begun to crawl back toward prosperity, largely because of rising profits on Wall Street. 
 In the first half of this year, the city's economy grew at an annual rate of 2.2 percent, below the national average of 3.3 percent but the highest for the first six months of any year since 1988. [Page A1.]
 
No Deal in G.M. Strike
Negotiators trying to end a strike by Canadian workers against General Motors reported slow progress but were hopeful that a deal might be reached as the deadline neared. [A12.]
 
Trends in Child Labor
Fewer children appear to be working overseas to make apparel sold in the United States, as companies adopt codes of conduct barring child labor, the Labor Department has found, but many companies fail to enforce the standards adequately. [A10.]
 
A Profit at Apple, but What Next?
The good news of Apple Computer's $25 million profit for its most recent quarter is set against a darker backdrop of much bigger losses and sales declines. The critical question is whether the marketplace will wait while Apple's new chief completes his corporate "transformation." News Analysis. [D5.]
 
The Big Loss At Burnett
By developing ad campaigns featuring memorable characters like the Marlboro cowboys, Tony the Tiger and the Maytag repairman, Leo Burnett has long been the envy of other agencies. But its loss of the United Airlines account was only the most painful of a number of blows. [D8.]
 
The action on Madison Avenue last week was not confined to the skies, friendly or otherwise. As United dismissed Burnett, there were changes among top executives at several other agencies. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D11.]
 
Pulling the Wool Over Their Eyes
A recent ad in The New Yorker, purportedly for a fur retailer, was actually placed by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. A video promoted in the ad depicts how, according to the group, animals are cruelly slaughtered in the name of fashion. [D9.]
 
Crossing the Digital Divide
A little-known board is charged with recommending ways to give small libraries and schools access to modern telecommunications at discount prices. [D5.]
 
U.S. Robotics's Stock Gyrates
The stock of U.S. Robotics, which has bounced up and down, continued the trend after the company's announcement that a faster modem was on the way. Market Place. [D6.]
 
For Magazines, a Sunnier View
The mood was upbeat at a gathering of magazine industry leaders, reflecting an improved business outlook.
Robin Pogrebin: Publishing. [D9.]
 
A Missing Note on the Web
Imagine calling up a music site on the Web. Then you click a button on your PC screen to copy the title onto a CD. You could pop the CD out of the recorder and play it on your stereo. Unfortunately, such an application -- as well as others that would turn the Web into more of a custom information source -- does not exist. Denise Caruso: Digital Commerce. [D5.]
 
A New Encyclopedia for Russia
Five years after the demise of Communism, the only Russian-language encyclopedia dates to the Brezhnev era. Now Collier's plans to publish the first uncensored Russian encyclopedia since 1917, after the collapse of a partnership between Encyclopedia Britannica and Russian scholars. [D9.]

CORRECTION-DATE: October 25, 1996, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Monday with the continuation of an article about the economic rebound in New York City misstated the timing of the most recent recession in the city. It began in 1989 and lasted until 1992; it did not occur in 1988. In some editions the chart also misstated the hotel occupancy rate for 1988. It was 75 percent, not 80.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 6,094.23 Up 124.85
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.79% Down 0.05
The Dollar -- 112.47 yen Up 0.87

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); CHILD LABOR (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); CHILDREN (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); RETAILERS (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (61%); ANIMALS (61%); FUR APPAREL STORES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996



512 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: Federal Subsidies to States Tell Half the Story

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Several Oct. 12 letters raise questions about our study, "The Federal Budget and the States, Fiscal Year 1995." Gov. George Allen of Virginia in his letter focuses on the 17 percent of the domestic Federal budget that flows to state and local governments. By contrast, we analyzed all domestic Federal spending, including Social Security, defense, income support payments, veterans benefits, Medicare and Medicaid. We also look at all sources of Federal receipts used to finance these programs. 
 All these programs have economic effects on the state -- whether the states administer the programs themselves or the Federal Government provides the service directly. The point is simple. Salaries paid to Federal employees, payments to Federal contractors and Social Security checks to individual recipients all offer economic benefits to the states.
Governor Allen also suggests that the way to evaluate fairness is "to ask whether the funds are in fact flowing back to the users who finance them." We disagree. Some Federal programs, like Medicaid, are designed to be redistributive in nature, while others, like defense, are designed for other purposes -- but nearly all involve some redistribution.
States whose residents are better off should, and do, bear a higher percentage of the Federal tax burden. The policy question is how big the shifts ought to be.
 
MONICA FRIAR
HERMAN LEONARD
JAY WALDER
Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 18, 1996
 
The writers are at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (55%); MEDICAID (83%); MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (83%); MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATES (US) BUDGETS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); MILITARY BENEFITS (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (74%); MEDICAID (73%); MEDICARE (73%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); VETERANS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: WALDER, JAY; FRIAR, MONICA; LEONARD, HERMAN JOHN F KENNEDY (54%); JOHN F KENNEDY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



513 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk; The Environment Page

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: If a Tree Falls, Should Its Neighbors Too?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

DATELINE: GREENVILLE, Me.

 BODY:
FROM a seaplane, Moosehead Lake sprawled steely gray under a dark, drizzly overcast. But autumn's brilliant hues made it seem as if full sunlight were bathing the trees of the Maine woods: red, orange and yellow hardwoods covering the mid-slopes of the northernmost Appalachians, set off by dark green conifers on the ridges and in the valleys.
The magnificent vista lasted for perhaps five minutes. Then the landscape gave way to a series of open tracts punched out of the woods as if by a cookie cutter. Some looked as bare as a moonscape; others displayed the shades of green, flecked with puffs of red and orange, that signal the early stages of recovery from deforestation. 
 Clear-cutting has long been hotly disputed here, and Maine voters are preparing to decide in a Nov. 5 referendum whether to ban it. The paper industry, which owns 10 million of the state's 17 million acres of forest, fears a decision to ban the practice. It has joined with middle-of-the-road environmentalists to offer a competing proposal that would reduce from 250 acres to 75 acres the greatest permissible size for clear-cutting.
The sharp debate has raised an issue that goes far beyond clear-cutting, that of how to manage the whole landscape to serve both nature and the economy. Some intriguing proposals are now being discussed by the industry, scientists and environmentalists.
One strategy, known as the triad approach, has been advanced by scientists at the University of Maine. It would assign one part of the landscape to be untouchable nature reserves, one to be tree farms and a third part to be lightly logged, in ways that mimic natural losses from fire, windstorms and insect infestations.
A second strategy is about to be tested in an unusual experiment on 100,000 industry-owned acres of mature forest. Known as the shifting mosaic approach, it relies on the ability of forests in the Northeastern United States to regenerate. The idea is to harvest timber in a sequential pattern that produces all stages of the natural recovery, from light-loving trees like white birch in the early years to shade-tolerant kinds like sugar maple, beech and spruce that appear later. Each stage of this mosaic would be host to a different set of plant and animal species, thus preserving the forest's full array of living creatures.
The mosaic idea, which is supported by some industry foresters and environmentalists alike, may or may not include clear-cutting, said Dr. John M. Hagan, the director of the experiment and an ecologist with the Manomet Observatory, an independent research organization in Manomet, Mass. Dr. Hagan has previously touched off debate by arguing that a single large clear-cut area can be healthier for a forest than many smaller but widely dispersed cuts, even partial ones, which degrade a larger area.
Whatever logging methods are used, Dr. Hagan says, the mosaic experiment is the first large-scale test of whether industrial forestry and biological health are compatible. If the answer is no, he says, it might be necessary to turn to remedies like nature preserves.
This leads to a third strategy, proposed by some environmentalists: that of converting more than two million acres into a national park, a prospect sure to be stoutly resisted by industry and unlikely to reach fruition any time soon.
Much depends on how serious the powerful paper industry is about ecological health. While industry foresters have "very definitely learned how to talk the talk, we'll have to see whether they can walk the walk," said Dr. Malcolm L. Hunter Jr., a wildlife ecologist at the University of Maine and an author of the triad strategy. Nevertheless, serious discussions are taking place. "Just five years ago," he said, "we didn't know how to get the conversation off the ground."
(The New York Times Company does not own or manage any forests. The company is a 40 percent owner of Madison Paper Industries in Madison, Me., which makes high-quality paper for magazines, including The New York Times Magazine.)
The issue of forest management here is different from that in the West, especially the Pacific Northwest with its virgin old-growth forests. Humans have been manipulating the Maine woods so long that only tiny remnants of virgin forest remain. The woods, in fact, have never been free of human influence: after the retreat of the glaciers some 10,000 years ago, people moved into this region before trees did.
Henry David Thoreau's account of an "uninterrupted" forest on his trips through Maine from 1846 through 1857, often cited today, also documented widespread logging even then.
The Maine woods' ability to regenerate has allowed them to be cut two, three, even four times. In much of the West, by contrast, aridity and high altitude often inhibit recovery. The smaller Eastern tree species also reach maturity in a century or less, much faster than the giants of the Pacific Northwest, which require up to 400 years.
Scientists say that continual reharvesting in Maine has created a relatively young forest. Still, it is possible to get some idea of what a mature forest is like. In one stand of evergreens near here, for instance, the ground beneath black spruce estimated at 100 to 120 years old is softly carpeted by wet moss. Lichens encrust the old, tightly spaced trunks. Not far away, on a slope dominated by brilliantly colored hardwoods, the trees have been growing back since a catastrophic fire in 1913. Sugar maples, beeches and yellow birches tower overhead, their canopies overlapping. The floor is strewn with herbaceous plants, fallen trunks, branches and leaves, providing a rich and complex habitat for animal life from salamanders to moose.
In the 1970's and 1980's, after a spruce budworm infestation killed large stretches of forest, wide tracts were clear-cut. But after a 1989 law limited clear-cutting to 250 acres, the proportion of timber harvested by this method has steadily declined from almost half to 8 percent, according to data from the Maine Forest Service. From 1990 through last year, the service reports about 16 percent of the Maine woods was cut; about 2 percent was clear-cut.
Scientists say clear-cutting leads to loss of vital soil nutrients, which may take decades to return. Still, a leading ecologist, Dr. Gene E. Likens of the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y., says on the basis of long-term studies that it may be an ecologically acceptable practice in the Northeast, if the clear-cut area is not too large, on too steep a slope or repeated too soon. An interval of 100 years or more is recommended.
Dr. Hagan says he has discovered that clear-cut areas are not the biological deserts he once thought. In one large, 10,000-acre clear-cut section, for instance, he found some 40 species of birds, many of them migrant songbirds from the tropics. The birds have adopted Maine's clear-cut areas because new forests have closed out their habitat in southern New England.
On the other hand, many other tropical migrants like the ovenbird can exist only in mature forests. It is not clear how logging affects Maine species other than birds, Dr. Hagan said, because the necessary studies have not been done. Some scientists have suggested that herbaceous plants and animals like salamanders that live on the forest floor could be seriously harmed by clear-cutting.
The purpose of next month's vote to ban clear-cutting is to stop the "worst abuses," said Jonathan Carter, a former forester who leads the campaign to ban the practice. What is going on now is "unconscionable," he said, because in time it will "destroy this state's future."
The alternative proposal restricts clear-cutting to 75 acres, sets up a system for grading paper companies' ecological performance and sets aside some 10,000 acres as an ecological reserve, to serve as a benchmark against which to measure the effect of future forest practices. A third choice on the ballot is to maintain the 250-acre clear-cutting limit.
However the vote comes out, the shifting mosaic experiment is set to begin next summer at two sites, one owned byGreat Northern Paper, the state's largest landowner, and the other by the S. D. Warren Company.
Dr. Hunter, one of several members of a broadly representative "stakeholder council" overseeing the project, said he believed that Dr. Hagan was too ready to accept clear-cutting as a tool, and that the practice too often departed from the ideal of mimicking natural disturbance.
Dr. Hunter's triad approach has drawn criticism as well. Some critics doubt that Maine's soils could long sustain intensive tree farming. Economically, it would take 40 years for the plantations to pay off with no compensating source of timber in the interim, said Marcia McKeague, Great Northern's manager of woodlands.
As for the idea of reserves, there is some support for it within the industry, but also "a great deal of caution," said Ms. McKeague. "There have been huge, huge proposals for reserves that would take up half of Maine, for instance, and that's something we couldn't live with."
Even if everyone could agree on some strategy for managing the forest, there remains the question of whether any approach would hold up under increasing demand for timber. Dr. Stephen C. Trombulak, an ecologist at Middlebury College in Vermont and an expert on the forest, put it this way: "If you continue to extract and extract without ever addressing the demand side, then we've lost all hope."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "How Should Maine's Landscape Look?"
The best way to manage the overall landscape of Maine is in dispute. Above, a mature spruce forest on the west branch of the Penobscot River. At left, Dr. John M. Hagan, an ecologist at the Manomet Observatory, in a tangled old-growth spruce forest; at right, clear-cut patches near Frenchtown Township. (Photographs by Scott Perry for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Diagram: "Different Trees, Different Populations: Bird Habitats in the Changing Forest"
As the forest recovers in stages from being clear cut, each stage harbors a different mix of bird species. Together, they make up the full avian array. Diagram shows these stages. Dr. John M. Hagan/Manomet Observatory; Illustrated by Richard Salvucci)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MAINE UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MAINE UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE; NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); UNITED STATES (96%); MAINE, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; REFERENDUMS; ELECTION ISSUES; LAND USE POLICIES; LOGGING INDUSTRY REFERENDUMS (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); ANIMALS (86%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (77%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DEFORESTATION (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); ZOOLOGY (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (63%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (57%); 

PERSON: HAGAN, JOHN M (DR); STEVENS, WILLIAM K JOHN M HAGAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



514 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Job for a President

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
The contenders have been uninspiring, the "debates" dreary, the intellectual level ranged from vapid to embarrassing -- but the Presidential campaign has brought one important benefit to the country.
It moved President and contender at last to give consistent public attention to a national problem that hugely increases crime, ruins family lives, sickens the brain, drives many Americans out of work forever, afflicts millions with diseases that cost taxpayers billions, makes the U.S. weaker physically, poorer economically, ugly culturally, withered morally and an object of contempt internationally: drug abuse. 
 The question is, will this attention, and follow-through action, last after Inauguration Day? How long?
If he is elected and does not make himself the leader of the movement against drugs, either Bill Clinton or Bob Dole will miss an opportunity that is unlikely to come his way again -- to use the Presidency to put a mark on history as a man who specifically and tangibly brightened the life and future of the nation.
No, not what he could do if only he had complete control of the Congress, or if foreign nations or domestic polls allowed. It seems reasonable to expect a President to set at least one major goal that he could fulfill pretty much by himself, eliminating excuses and rationalizations, and then for Heaven's sake go do it.
Both men have the ability to attain the goal of giving America the anti-drug leadership it needs, if they also have the courage to hold themselves accountable for achievements or failures during their term.
They will have the critical tool as they begin. The most effective weapon against drug abuse can be consistent Presidential emphasis on drug dangers, and how to fight them. Neither the incumbent nor his predecessors made preaching those dangers part of the weave of his Presidency. That is not the single answer, but is the foundation for all answers.
If the President is to be effective he must be painfully candid. He must tell the country it needs a no-tolerance attitude toward drug selling and other drug crimes and a severe attitude toward drug use. He must emphasize repeatedly that winning the drug war means law enforcement. Most drug criminals serving time are heavy sellers, and are either repeaters or have been arrested before for other crimes.
He will say that drug enforcement must be combined with interdiction abroad and therapy at home. None of the three should be slighted or allowed to become so politically chic as to overwhelm the other two and bring the anti-drug structure down.
He would say enforcement will get tougher, not softer, that on interdiction he will ask Mexico to choose between being the largest exporter of cocaine to America and surrendering U.S. aid and respect. He would say that compared with the cost and cruelties of crimes committed by drug users and sellers, enforcement, interdiction and therapy are cheap.
The President would use the Oval Office to bring in and reach out to parents and teachers. Teen-agers, the group showing an increase in use of drugs, mostly marijuana, a gateway to harder drugs, say they are getting less anti-drug attention from parents than they had expected.
Meantime, the lobby for drug legalization is growing more prosperous. It will not win, but the relative handful of prominent Americans involved get attention and funds that drain energy from the anti-drug effort.
No law prevents a George Soros from donating millions of tax-free foundation dollars to organizations preaching direct or backdoor legalization of drugs. Nor is there a law preventing donations to groups preaching the benefits of slavery. Addiction is one more variety. A candid President would say all that.
He would strengthen Mr. Clinton's own proposal that teen-agers pass a drug test to get a driving license. Why not everybody, and at dates unspecified until after the application or renewal?
The President will have a fine drug czar, Gen. Barry McCaffrey. He could also use a small council from politics, business and drug-fighting organizations. Its members would have something in common -- the passion for the struggle against drugs that the President himself will need if he is to brighten America's life and future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (75%); ARRESTS (72%); FAMILY (71%); COCAINE (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



515 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
USAir Profit Surges 57% For Quarter

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
USAir Group Inc. said yesterday that its earnings rose 57 percent in the third quarter, reflecting strong demand for international flights.
The company, based in Arlington, Va., earned $67.7 million, or 69 cents a share, compared with $43.1 million, or 35 cents a share, a year earlier. The per-share results reflect payment of preferred stock dividends. Revenue rose nearly 11 percent, to $2.07 billion from $1.87 billion. 
 Wall Street expected the company to earn 61 cents a share, based on a survey of nine analysts by I.B.E.S. International Inc.
The shares of USAir rose 25 cents yesterday, to $16.625, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The quarterly results reflect a $41.1 million provision in the 1996 quarter and a $15.1 million provision in the 1995 quarter for an employee profit-sharing plan that was initiated four years ago.
USAir's third-quarter financial performance was "good; it's not great," said Susan Donofrio, an analyst with NatWest Securities in New York. "It's good that it's profitable, but costs continue to creep up."
Increases in fuel prices for the most recent quarter reduced the earnings compared with the 1995 quarter, Ms. Donofrio added.
The average weekly cost for jet fuel during the third quarter of 1996 was 67.74 cents a gallon, up from 53.22 cents in the 1995 quarter.
The company said its improved results were largely a result of increased demand for international flights. USAir said its international business increased 57 percent from a year earlier, mainly because of new flights to Europe from Philadelphia.
Over all, demand for USAir flights rose 6.3 percent for the quarter. Planes were flying at 70 percent of capacity, an increase of 3 percentage points from a year earlier.
Stephen M. Wolf, the chairman and chief executive, said airline companies continued to "benefit from positive economic conditions."

GRAPHIC: Table: "USAir Group Inc. (U,N)"

Qtr. to Sept 30	1996	1995	%Ch	Rev.	2,072,567,000	1,873,417,000	+10.6	Net inc.	b67,738,000	c43,056,000	+57.3	Sh. earn	.69	.35		Sh. out.	65,838,000	62,571,000	 	
 
b-Included a provision of $41.1 million to cover a 1992 profit-sharing plan obligation and $9.8 million in expenses to settle a lawsuit over commissions, brought by travel agents against several airlines.
c-Included a provision of $15.2 million related to the profit-sharing plan.
The results included preferred dividend requirements of $22.3 million for the latest quarter and $21.4 million for the year-earlier period.
The results are for the third quarter.
 
Yesterday's closing price: $16.625
Up 25 cents 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (97%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (97%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: USAIR INC U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (97%); I/B/E/S INTERNATIONAL INC (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: USAIR INC UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPANY REPORTS AIRLINES (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PREFERRED STOCK (77%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); JET FUEL (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: SUSAN DONOFRIO (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



516 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 27; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Ruth Farkas, 89, Nixon's Ambassador to Luxembourg, Dies

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
Ruth Lewis Farkas, who was appointed Ambassador to Luxembourg in 1973 after she and her husband, the founder of the Alexander's department stores, contributed $300,000 to President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign, died on Friday at the Park Avenue home of her son Robin. She was 89.
Mrs. Farkas, who lived in Palm Beach, Fla., had been staying with Mr. Farkas and his wife, Carol, a nurse, in Manhattan since her release two weeks ago from the New York University Medical Center, where she had been treated for a heart ailment. 
 Despite the uproar that surrounded Mrs. Farkas's appointment and a delay in her Senate confirmation, her posting caused little stir in the tiny grand duchy of Luxembourg, which was accustomed to Americans whose path to ambassadorships was paved with political contributions.
Although Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas cast his Foreign Relations committee vote against her and denounced her appointment as demeaning the Foreign Service, Senator Gale W. McGee of Wyoming said he was satisfied that Mrs. Farkas was innocent of any impropriety and laughed about the custom of making envoys of people who make generous campaign contributions.
"The money -- that's par for the course," he said. "It used to be a cheaper price -- but that's Nixon inflation."
In contrast to Ambassador Perle Mesta, the Washington socialite who arrived in Luxembourg in 1949 with flamboyant ways and gala parties that inspired the Broadway musical "Call Me Madam," Mrs. Farkas, who held a doctorate in sociology from Columbia University and a doctorate in education from New York University, maintained a low profile.
Reserved by nature and press-shy because of the uproar that surrounded her appointment, she was more at ease as the sponsor of forums on the drug problems of teen-agers than in being a second coming of a woman known as the hostess with the mostest.
Not until two years after Mrs. Farkas arrived did she make her first splash in the social life of Luxembourg, with a charity gala that featured the singer Sacha Distel and a United States Army orchestra. The event took in $28,000 for a school for handicapped children.
She maintained close ties with the Government, gave quiet and unpretentious parties and, unlike many envoys, avoided making political statements about United States policy. Most diplomatic work was carried out by her six-member staff, and in the Luxembourg diplomatic community, which then included 13 other ambassadors, Mrs. Farkas, though serious, was not considered a heavyweight.
President Gerald R. Ford accepted her resignation in 1976 and replaced her with Rosemary L. Ginn, a longtime Republican national committeewoman from Missouri.
Mrs. Farkas settled in Florida and resumed her many philanthropic and humanitarian activities and research into male and female roles through the Role Foundation, which she established in 1967.
Ruth Lewis, one of five children of Samuel Lewis and the former Jennie Bach, was born in Manhattan in 1906. Both her parents were in the real estate business and each influenced her. "Community living and sharing, that was my mother; intellectual pursuits, that was my father," Mrs. Farkas once said.
Accompanying her mother into tenements taught her about poverty, and Mrs. Farkas never forgot her mother's advice: "No matter what your station in life, no matter what you grow up to be, always try to contribute to those less fortunate than you."
She met George Farkas when she was 10. Their families lived in the same apartment house, at 107th Street and Fifth Avenue, where George, whose father had died, kept a close eye on his little sister, who was Ruth Lewis's best friend.
"I didn't like him at first because he was such a boss," she said.
They were married in 1928, but not until she graduated from New York University. She received a master's degree from Columbia in 1932 and was for many years a member of the executive committee of Alexander's.
Mr. Farkas died in 1980.
In addition to Robin, Mrs. Farkas is survived by three other sons, Alexander of Highland Park, Fla., and Bruce and Jonathan, of Manhattan; 15 grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LUXEMBOURG (91%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LUXEMBOURG (91%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CHARITIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (77%); NURSES & NURSING (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); RETAILERS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (64%); MUSIC (64%); RESIGNATIONS (60%); MUSICAL THEATER (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); ARMIES (50%); 

PERSON: FARKAS, RUTH L RICHARD NIXON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



517 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Jewish Cemetery Is Desecrated in Argentina, the Third This Year

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Oct. 21

 BODY:
A major Jewish cemetery was desecrated over the weekend, the third such attack in Argentina this year, raising fear among Jews and anger that the Government seems to be doing little to stop the anti-Semitic assaults.
Jewish leaders expressed outrage over the attack, in which a gang believed to have seven members sneaked past a guard at La Tablada cemetery on the capital's outskirts early Sunday morning and smashed or defaced 100 tombstones and mausoleums, according to police reports. The intruders painted red and black swastikas and "Hitler" on many tombstones before being chased by a guard who heard them, the police said. 
 The attack follows desecrations of tombs in Jewish cemeteries in the provinces of Cordoba and Salta in recent months and the deadly bombings of the Israeli Embassy in Buenos Aires in 1992, which killed 29 people, and of the country's main Jewish cultural center in 1994. That attack killed 90.
Neither the desecrations nor the bombings have been solved, prompting Jewish leaders to raise questions about the Government's commitment to justice in the cases.
"Our major concern is that this attack could develop into something much bigger," said Sergio Wiedder, the Argentine representative for the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles. The center is devoted to bringing Nazis to justice.
"The real problem," Mr. Wiedder said, "is one of security. The Jewish community is vulnerable to these attacks, because the Government does nothing to protect it or to solve the crimes. All we here is a lot of talk and promises of security, but no action."
Television stations broadcast film on Sunday of people who were weeping on visits to the desecrated tombs of family members and friends.
Last week, Domingo Cavallo, who was dismissed as Finance Minister in the summer in a disagreement over his economic changes, said Argentina had dragged its feet in investigating the bombings.
La Tablada, which covers 138 acres and has 70,000 graves, is the largest Jewish cemetery in the country. With Latin America's largest Jewish population, Argentina has 230,000 people who identify themselves as Jews.
Jewish leaders said the extensive damage at La Tablada had led them to conclude that the desecration was the work of a well-organized group and not a "marginal gang," as some Government officials had said.
The Israeli Ambassador to Argentina, who toured the cemetery yesterday, called on the Government to locate and prosecute those responsible for the attack. "There is no room for xenophobia," the Ambassador, Yitzhak Aviran, said. "But I don't know if we will make it to the next century if these horrible acts continue to take place."
The Delegation of Argentine Jewish Associations, a federation of groups, said in a news release: "We are asking for the right to live in peace. We want answers from the courts, and not merely words of comfort."
Calling the desecration a "cowardly attack against Jews," President Carlos Saul Menem promised to add security for Jewish cemeteries to prevent such attacks, and Interior Minister Carlos Corach, who is Jewish, said the Government would start a full investigation.
"How long will our society tolerate the evil symbol of the swastika?" asked Oscar Hansman, president of the Argentine Jewish Mutual Aid Association, the largest Jewish group in Argentina. "How long will the men who committed this violent act continue to enjoy impunity in the country?"
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (96%); ISRAEL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%); SIMON WIESENTHAL CENTER (55%); SIMON WIESENTHAL CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIMON WIESENTHAL CENTER (55%); SIMON WIESENTHAL CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA; ARGENTINA (96%); ISRAEL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ANTI-SEMITISM; JEWS; LA TABLADA (ARGENTINE CEMETERY); CEMETERIES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; VANDALISM JEWS & JUDAISM (94%); CEMETERIES (93%); VANDALISM (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN SIMON WIESENTHAL (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



518 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
A notable trend toward the upgrading of corporate credit.

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
THE rising stock market is having a very positive effect on American companies: corporate credit quality, as measured by changes in bond ratings, appears to be better than ever.
So far this year, Moody's has upgraded the ratings of 221 companies, compared with 146 companies downgraded. That works into a ratio of 1.51 upgrades for each downgrade, by far the best in at least two decades. 
 Part of that rise in credit quality has come from the ability of many companies to sell stock, either in the form of additional offerings or as initial public offerings, with the money used to bolster the balance sheet and improve credit quality.
"The stock market strength has prompted the substitution of debt capital with equity capital," said John Lonski, a senior economist at Moody's Investors Service.
That does not necessarily mean that corporate America is stronger financially than ever before. From 1985 through 1992, "we went through a very rough period," characterized by a large number of downgrades, Mr. Lonski said, adding, "To a degree, we are merely reversing a good deal of the damage that was done to corporate credit worth" in that turbulent period.
To some extent, the rising volume of upgradings reflects the growing financial strength of corporate America more than five years into an economic expansion, and is what one might expect.
But it also reflects the reality that leverage is not quite as fashionable as it used to be. Companies once chose to leverage up as part of a growth strategy or in some cases as a defensive strategy, since it was sometimes possible for corporate raiders to effectively borrow most of the money needed to take over a company by pledging the target company's borrowing power.
The rise in corporate bond ratings has come at a time when the bond markets have narrowed quality spreads to historically low levels, which is to say that companies with low ratings are penalized much less than they were when it comes time to borrow money.
That provides an incentive for companies not to worry about their ratings, but the general trend toward upgradings may also help explain why investors are less concerned with credit quality than they were, and are thus willing to bid for bonds at prices that narrow the credit spreads.
Some of the strongest upgrade activity in recent years, and continuing in 1996, has been in financial companies, particularly banks. In 1990, Moody's downgraded 145 financial companies, while upgrading only 18; in the first nine months of 1996, the figures show 49 upgrades and just 12 downgrades.
In addition, much of the upgrading has come in the world of junk bonds -- bonds rated below the investment grade of Baa at Moody's and BBB at Standard & Poor's, the other major bond-rating service.
Take away junk bonds and financial issues, and the corporate quality picture is not quite as attractive. Carol Levenson, editor of the Gimme Credit fax newsletter based in Chicago, which follows the corporate bond market, reports that downgradings of investment-grade industrial issues are running 1.3 to 1 ahead of upgradings, using S.& P. ratings.
Most of those downgrades, however, do not reflect deteriorating fundamentals at the companies. They stem from what is called "event risk" in the bond market -- that is, from a decision by the company to make its balance sheet look worse, either by buying back stock or by making a large acquisition for cash.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Positive Outlook" tracks the ratio of upgrading to downgradings for companies rated by Moody's. Graph runs from 1975 through 1996. (Source: Moody's Investor Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC MOODY'S CORP (85%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); TRENDS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



519 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: City Ethics Panel Rules for Giuliani in Time Warner Cable Case

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
The New York City Conflicts of Interest Board dismissed a complaint against Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani yesterday, saying that the Mayor did not have to recuse himself from decisions involving Time Warner just because his wife works for the company's competitor, Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation.
The board's ruling came as the Giuliani administration released copies of depositions from its legal battle with Time Warner that showed that Time Warner's president had made overtures to a deputy mayor to try to iron out the dispute in private. 
 The Mayor and Time Warner are fighting over his plan to put Mr. Murdoch's new 24-hour news channel on one of the city-run cable stations. Mr. Giuliani decided to aid Mr. Murdoch after Time Warner refused to carry the channel on its regular band of stations, saying there was no space.
The Manhattan Borough President, Ruth W. Messinger, had charged that the Mayor might have violated the City Charter by helping Mr. Murdoch, pointing out that he owns WNYW-TV, Channel 5, which employs Mr. Giuliani's wife, Donna Hanover Giuliani, as a part-time newscaster.
The conflicts board ruled that Mrs. Giuliani would be unlikely to benefit from any action that her husband took involving a review by a city panel of Time Warner's cable franchises because she is not at the managerial level of the News Corporation or its subsidiaries. The board also noted that neither the Mayor nor his wife has an ownership stake in the News Corporation.
Jack Deacy, a spokesman for Mr. Giuliani, said the decision "refutes a baseless charge that was clearly raised for political purposes." In a statement, Ms. Messinger, a Democrat who is expected to run for mayor next year, accepted the board's ruling. But she continued to call on the Mayor to recuse himself, insisting that there remained an appearance of a conflict of interest.
In the depositions released yesterday, the Deputy Mayor for Operations, Randy M. Mastro, described in a sworn statement a phone call that he received from Time Warner's president, Richard D. Parsons, earlier this month.
Mr. Mastro said Mr. Parsons asked him whether there was "some way to resolve this, because Time Warner would have to go to war on these issues if they were not resolved amicably." Mr. Mastro added that by the end of the conversation, the two were unable to settle the dispute.
At the time, Mr. Parsons was an economic adviser to Mr. Giuliani, as well as a prominent supporter. But a few days after the phone call, Mr. Parsons angrily stepped down, criticizing the Mayor's economic development policies.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); TWX (NYSE) (58%); TWC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP; TIME WARNER INC NEWS CORP (94%); TIME WARNER INC (58%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWS CORP; TIME WARNER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (91%); ETHICS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (74%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (74%); CABLE INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MURDOCH, RUPERT; GIULIANI, DONNA HANOVER RUDY GIULIANI (92%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (90%); RICHARD D PARSONS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



520 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1657 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Leads Rare Coalition For Bond Act

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

 BODY:
One morning last week, Gov. George E. Pataki strode serenely into the heart of what was, just three months ago, enemy territory: the midtown offices of 1199 National Health and Human Service Employees Union.
The union had spent $3 million over the last two years on a fierce advertising campaign accusing the Governor of abandoning the poor, the disabled and the elderly. But on this sun-dappled day in Manhattan, Mr. Pataki was greeted like a trusted ally, as some of New York State's most powerful labor leaders gathered to endorse the Governor's $1.75 billion environmental bond act and to pledge their potent get-out-the-vote operations to pass the proposition on Nov. 5. 
 "The environment is basic to health," said Dennis Rivera, 1199's president. "And if the Governor becomes a spokesperson for an issue we care about, hallelujah!"
Mr. Pataki's ability to win endorsements from his onetime labor adversaries typifies his success in building a well-financed and surprisingly diverse coalition to support the Clean Water/Clean Air Bond Act, which would finance projects from sewage treatment plants to electric cars to landfill closings and, backers say, create 60,000 jobs.
Just how Mr. Pataki, who has often clashed with the very Democrats, environmentalists and labor leaders who are now embracing him in the bond act effort, managed to win such broad backing is a tale of careful planning and blind fortune. The sudden popularity of the environment as a political issue this year, the recoiling of many voters from conservative Republicanism, President Clinton's big lead in polls in the state and the lack of any other statewide races have all contributed to making the bond act a rallying issue for politicians of all stripes.
But the bond act's apparent popularity -- polls show voters back it by 2 to 1 -- also illustrates how Mr. Pataki, a staunch fiscal conservative, has succeeded in wresting environmental issues from the Democrats and how he has devised a plan that offers something for almost everybody, including many groups he has alienated with budget cuts.
Labor unions like the bond act because of the promise of new jobs. Teachers like it because it will provide money to replace dirty coal-burning school furnaces. Staten Islanders like it because it will pay to close the Fresh Kills Landfill. Suburbanites like the money for waste-water plants. City officials like it because it includes money for cleaning up abandoned manufacturing sites and buying natural-gas buses.
And, of course, environmentalists like it because it addresses several of their major concerns, mainly urban air pollution and water quality around the state.
Mr. Pataki's aides -- mainly his counsel, Michael C. Finnegan, who has taken a leave to direct the bond act campaign -- did much groundwork to garner broad support for the bond act.
First, they conducted polls in the spring to see if voters liked the idea. Satisfied that they did, Mr. Finnegan then studied Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's 1990 environmental bond act, which narrowly failed. He decided that it included too much money for land acquisition, which angered property-rights and farmers groups, and too much money for small projects like parking lots and park benches, which critics lustily attacked as trivial pork-barrel spending.
Finally, he met privately with scores of environmentalists, offering them a role in shaping the plan in exchange for their support.
The result was a proposal that would spend most of its money -- $1.1 billion -- on protecting lakes, rivers, seashores and drinking water. The proposition, which is the only statewide question on the ballot this year, does not list in detail how the money will be spent -- an attempt to avoid the pork-barrel criticism. Instead, it authorizes local governments to apply for money for projects in five general areas: clean water, safe drinking water, solid waste, urban cleanups and air quality.
With the Presidential campaign generating little excitement around the state, politicians on the hustings have been drawn to the bond act like bugs to a bulb. Democrats in Manhattan and Republicans in Rochester alike have eagerly stumped for the proposition, using it either to energize their liberal bases or win support from women and moderates.
Republicans, many of whom have been trying to distance themselves from House Speaker Newt Gingrich and the party's conservative wing all year, have used the bond act to guide them toward the center. Even New York's most powerful Republican, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, has spent more than $500,000 on commercials touting his support for the proposition -- even though he is not known for taking strong environmental stands in Congress.
Democrats, who have long viewed the environment as their issue, have found themselves gritting their teeth and linking arms with Mr. Pataki. Only a handful of Democrats, mostly upstate conservatives, have opposed the act, while many more have appeared at local news conferences endorsing it.
State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, who is widely viewed as a likely Democratic challenger to Mr. Pataki in 1998 and who has often attacked the Republican Governor's budgets as fiscally irresponsible, has crisscrossed the state praising the plan. "It is something that is good for all New Yorkers," Mr. McCall said at an Albany news conference last week that was attended mostly by Democratic officials.
Mr. Pataki's critics say he has used the bond act as a midterm vehicle to broaden his support among moderates and soften his image among groups he has angered. And his travels around the state promoting it have become an invaluable off-year promotional campaign laying the groundwork for a 1998 re-election effort.
They note, for instance, that Mr. Pataki has spent much time selling the bond act in New York City, where his support is weakest. Last week, the Governor appeared at a public school in Manhattan with Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew to publicize $125 million in the bond act for replacing coal-burning furnaces in 280 city schools.
Some Democrats regard his actions skeptically.
One Democratic labor organizer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, "There's been talk among some labor people that if you give Pataki the bond act, it will help him win in 1998 because he'll have all that money to spend, and that will help him move to the center."
But Mr. Pataki contends that he did not propose the bond act to burnish his image.
"This is something I've been very out front on since I was a little kid," he said in an interview. "I don't need another issue to give me the excuse to go around the state. This is a unique opportunity to do something I feel is right."
Still, it is clear that the bond act has provided Mr. Pataki a useful tool to mend fences. For much of this year, his administration was at war with the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., whose leaders were angry with his proposals to revamp the workers' compensation system, cut state spending and change worker training programs. But after a meeting with the Governor last week, in which Mr. Pataki promised that bond act projects would pay prevailing wages, which are usually union scale, labor federation leaders emerged praising Mr. Pataki's leadership skills.
Edward J. Cleary, the president of the 2.3-million-member state A.F.L.-C.I.O., even said that a labor endorsement of Mr. Pataki in 1998, unthinkable three months ago, was now within the realm of possibility. Labor unions have vowed to provide hundreds of workers to run telephone banks and travel door to door across the state promoting the bond act.
At the same time, scores of environmental groups, whose combined membership is well over 100,000, are using their newsletters and mailing lists to reach pro-environment voters. And the Clean Water/Clean Air Bond Act Committee, as well as a coalition of environmental groups, will begin running television and radio commercials this week.
Those efforts dwarf the opposition, which remains scattered, muted and poorly financed. The Farm Bureau, an organization representing farmers, and the state's Conservative Party, which helped defeat the last environmental bond act, in 1990, have done almost nothing to oppose this one, largely because they strongly support Mr. Pataki.
Another group, Change-N.Y., a longtime supporter of Mr. Pataki, has been more aggressive in attacking the bond act in editorial board meetings and public debates. But the anti-tax group's wealthy backers have not yet pledged any money for a media campaign.
"The opposition is pretty disorganized," said Thomas W. Carroll, the group's president. "But the fact that the last three bond acts went down suggests it will have trouble."
People on both sides agree, however, that opposition to the new bond act is less visceral than in 1990, when an environmental bond act proposed by Governor Cuomo was narrowly defeated. Supporters of this year's measure say the state was in a recession in 1990, creating economic anxieties that do not exist now.
Given the lack of organized opposition, the bond act's greatest obstacle may be voter indifference. Some supporters worry that because President Clinton is doing so well in the polls, urban Democrats -- the people believed to be the most likely to support the borrowing plan -- may stay home.
They also worry that New York City voters will have trouble finding the proposition on the ballot: nestled in the lower-right-hand corner. In upstate districts, where opposition is keenest, the question is in the upper-left-hand corner of the ballot, making it the first thing many voters will see when they enter the booth. Local election boards draw up the ballots.
"The overwhelming inclination in New York City is to vote for it," said Ben Esner, field director for the Environmental Coalition for the Clean Water/Clean Air Bond Act. "The key now is to make people know it's there."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "HIGHLIGHTS: Clean Water/Clean Air Bond Act" lists a summary of the $1.75 billion proposed environmental act. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; LABOR; REFERENDUMS GOVERNORS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); AIR QUALITY (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); REFERENDUMS (74%); POLITICS (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (71%); WATER POLLUTION (71%); AIR POLLUTION (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); CITIES (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (51%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



521 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: In Creating Russia's 'Sesame Street,' Letter 'D' Stands for Difficult

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 21

 BODY:
Their parents' idea of American culture usually comes straight from watching Russia's most popular television shows: "Dynasty," "Baywatch" and "Beverly Hills 90210."
Now Russian children are also about to have their chance to participate in the great American intellectual experience. At least they will get something worth watching: on Tuesday a striking Russian version of "Sesame Street," or "Ulitsa Sezam," as it will be called here, will start appearing on television sets across the country. 
 "Sesame Street," which is history's most influential children's television show, is often exported and usually welcome in the country to which it is sent. But nothing is so simple in Russia. It took five years and $6 million to develop an indigenous show that would appeal to Russian children, yet not be so gloomy that the people from Children's Television Workshop refused to produce it.
During that time armed gunmen drove the company from its Moscow work space and nationalist politicians demanded to know why Russia needed television shows from America for its children to watch in the first place.
"It has been a long haul," said Natasha Lance Rogoff, the executive producer and series director of the show. "We had a lot to overcome but also a lot to work with. The talent here is rich and wonderful, the children are curious and there is a place for this show."
That's putting it more than mildly. Russia has a great tradition of brilliant animation and wonderful theater for children. But there is only one educational show for the preschool set, and "Sesame Street," which will appear three times a week at 6:30 P.M. on NTV, the independent television network, is an addition sought desperately by educators and parents alike.
But the goofy cheer of the American show and the obvious mission of preparing children for the joy of learning has been achieved in Russia only with enormous effort.
After seven decades of totalitarian rule, followed by several years of constant economic and political uncertainty, this society is anything but jolly. The birth rate has plummeted for years and young families -- often viewing the future with undisguised dread -- have not been eager to raise families.
Not surprisingly, perhaps, children here are grim. "When we went to audition children," Ms. Rogoff said, "90 percent of them sat back in their chairs and started to sing very sad songs. It was astonishing to see. But joy did not come easily to them. In fact, obedience, solemnity and duty seemed to be all they knew. It was sad, but it reminded me how important it was to bring this show to Russia."
There is nothing dour, or even very American, about "Ulitsa Sezam." New York City's quintessential brownstone has somehow become the building courtyard that is the center of human activity in most villages and cities in Russia. Big Bird is out, replaced by an awkward and adorable doglike character named Zeliboba, who lives in the hollow of a gigantic oak tree. Other characters -- including the imaginative but slightly ditzy Businka and Kubik, the pensive inventor -- manage to come straight from the long tradition of Russian folk tales while seeming distantly related to their American counterparts.
"Ulitsa Sezam" seeks to teach children to be proud of themselves and their country, to respect their parents but to understand that fun is an important part of life. It is a crucial message for Russian children, a surprising number of whom are capable of sitting through a day at a circus and a dinner at McDonald's without cracking a smile.
The show brings to Russia the same inventive word play with the alphabet that has helped teach millions of American youngsters how to read. One minute Zeliboba is prattling on about butterflies (whose Russian name begins with the letter "B," too) and the next butterflies are flying at the screen as children screech, "Bravo!" (another "B" word, even in Russian). But even the alphabet turned out to be tough for some of the screenwriters to handle.
From long experience the producers know that a light touch works best. The writers wanted to use heavy words gleaned from their own depressing childhood. Using the word "depressia" (no joke) to teach a child how to use the letter "D" might make Dostoyevsky smile briefly, but it is not a formula for success with toddlers.
"We are a country that has lived through a revolution in the last decade," said Vladimir Grammatikov, the director of the series, who has a reputation for producing high-quality films here. "So we are, of course, having trouble finding people with a new approach to the world. That is exactly why this show is so timely and valuable."
There is also the traditional "Sesame Street" commitment to ethnic blending and ecological responsibility, which grew out of its roots as a show developed by people with a lingering 60's view of the world. Learning the alphabet is one thing; teaching a Russian child the importance of recycling in a country where that word means nothing -- at least not yet -- may be another.
Still, you have to start somewhere. And Russian educators have finally admitted that television has become as influential here as it is in every other country. Better to have children watch something of value than the usual daytime fare of cheap imitations of American game shows and cartoons poorly dubbed into Russian.
The show was produced with the help of several grants, including one from the United States Agency for International Development and the Soros Foundation. Nobody expects it to earn much money. About 60 percent of the shows -- there are 52 so far -- are made in Russia with Russian children and a Russian world view. The rest are dubbed. Next year if the show is continued, the producers say they hope that every show will be made in Russia.
"We are honestly hoping to have as much of an effect on Russian children as 'Sesame Street' has had on Americans," Mr. Grammatikov said. "We want to make this revolution as important as those we have already had."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Businka, puppet at far left, with Sasha, a human, and Kubik making a lunch of borscht on "Ulitsa Sezam." Zeliboba, right, a doglike version of Big Bird. (Photographs by Heidi Bradner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SESAME STREET (TV PROGRAM)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (69%); CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (56%); CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (56%); CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); FAMILY (89%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); 

PERSON: SPECTER, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



522 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Small-Business Owners Prepare for a Megabattle

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY 

 BODY:
With the City Planning Commission expected tomorrow to approve the Giuliani administration's plan to allow suburban-style megastores in manufacturing areas, the proposal appears headed for a fierce battle before the City Council.
The Planning Commission is expected to pass the measure with only minor modifications. But opposition from small-business owners, who fear that the superstores would doom their businesses, has been consistent and strong. In recent months, a groundswell of community opposition has developed across the city, especially in Queens, which would receive the largest number of superstores under the plan. 
 That neighborhood resistance resonates loudly for Council members and also puts Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani in an awkward position, because it comes from areas that supported him strongly in the last election.
Joan V. DaCorta, president of the Astoria Heights Homeowners and Tenants Association in Queens, exemplifies that opposition.
Mrs. DaCorta said she liked the fact that by about 7 every night, after people get off work and go into their well-kept red-brick homes, the streets of her neighborhood become extremely quiet, even dull.
She gets agitated at the mention of the Mayor's rezoning plan, because it would allow a megastore to open in a manufacturing district in the middle of her neighborhood without having to obtain a special permit or go through community review.
"We don't need 24-hour-a-day, 7-days-a-week businesses in our community," she said. "I love to walk to church on Sundays. So do I want a store that's clamoring when I walk by? No. I want my day of rest. If I wanted all that hustle and bustle, I would have moved to Manhattan years ago."
Mrs. DaCorta and hundreds of other homeowners blocked a large Pathmark supermarket from moving into the area in 1994. She said they were prepared to fight the zoning changes with just as much fervor.
Homeowner groups like Mrs. DaCorta's made their feelings known at community and borough board meetings during the summer, prompting 21 of the 36 community boards that considered the plan to vote against it, as did all five borough boards. Those votes are strictly advisory, since the Council will have final say.
City officials said they always expected a significant amount of resistance to the plan, because it would change a policy that has gone unchallenged for more than two decades. But they also said that once they had explained the plan to Council members and citizens, they thought that opponents would be persuaded that the rezoning would improve the city's retail economy while also creating a more sensible and uniform zoning policy.
"What people seem to be forgetting is that right now manufacturing zones throughout the city can be inundated with many kinds of retail activity in unplanned ways that can have enormous negative effects on neighborhoods," said Joseph B. Rose, the City Planning Commission chairman. "Under this proposal, all areas of the city will be protected and we'll be getting rid of arbitrary restrictions."
The Mayor's plan would allow as many as 57 new superstores to open, without going through a community approval process that can take as long as three years, on wide streets in areas zoned for light and medium manufacturing. The stores could be as large as 200,000 square feet, roughly the size of five football fields.
The rezoning would repeal restrictions that the city imposed in 1974 in a failed attempt to keep industries and lure new ones into manufacturing areas. The city decided to prohibit certain kinds of large stores in manufacturing areas out of a fear that retail outlets would drive up property prices and discourage manufacturers from returning to the city. But the strategy was misguided, Mr. Rose said, because it did not help manufacturing and only served to retard retail development.
The City Planning Department estimates that the rezoning would help the city recapture $1.5 billion a year in retail sales that now flows into the suburbs, where superstores have existed for years. It is estimated that the city would reap $50 million annually in sales tax revenues and the new stores would create about 13,600 new jobs.
Mr. Rose added that the changes also would allow the city to regulate more carefully stores like Home Depot and Toys "R" Us, which have been able to move into manufacturing zones because the 1974 law was written before those kinds of megastores were invented and therefore did not expressly prohibit them.
The success of such stores attest to how much New Yorkers want to shop in superstores, he said. The Home Depot that opened in June 1995 in a manufacturing zone in Flushing, for example, is the only 24-hour store and the highest-volume store in the chain of 476 outlets.
Real estate developers have welcomed the rezoning as a historic change that shows the city's commitment to becoming friendlier to retail businesses.
Bruce Ratner, president of Forest City Ratner, which has developed seven retail centers in the city and plans to build seven more, said that after carefully studying the city's retail market, his company has determined there simply are not enough large parcels of suitable land available in the city to meet the demand for retail variety.
He said that even with the proposed zoning changes, he could only find 15 to 20 sites in manufacturing zones suitable for large retail developments. "All this opposition about the rezoning putting people out of business is a tempest in a teapot, because there aren't enough good sites available for retail to make a meaningful impact on anybody," he said.
Richard Lipsky, a lobbyist who heads the Neighborhood Small Business Association, argued, however, that the very sites that people like Mr. Ratner deem suitable for superstores are the kinds of locations that small businesses and homeowners want to protect. "Where else would you put a big supermarket except where the people and the small businesses already are?" he said.
Mrs. DaCorta said her opposition would not wane even if planning officials found a way to remove her neighborhood's manufacturing site from the rezoning plan.
"The idea that the city is trying to eliminate community input and for them to just tell us they know what's right for us, how dare they?" she said. "When you do something like that, we might as well be in Russia.
"This is an opportunity for Mayor Giuliani to prove that he is for the people, and the people in the community are the ones that should have something to say about this."

GRAPHIC: Diagram/Map: "A CLOSER LOOK: Zones for Superstores"
Map of New York's five boroughs showing locations of manufacturing zones. (Source: New York Department of City Planning)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (74%); CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (74%); CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ZONING; SMALL BUSINESS CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ZONING (90%); MAYORS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); APPROVALS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); 

PERSON: TOY, VIVIAN S; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



523 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Elections Fail to Clarify Outlook for Japan

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 21

 BODY:
As Japan has wallowed through the last few years of economic stagnation and political turmoil, corporate executives have looked to its Government for two things -- stable and strong leadership, and economic deregulation that would lay the groundwork for Japan Inc. to roar again in the 21st century.
But the national elections that were held on Sunday will probably fall short of either of these outcomes. That prompted investors to send the Nikkei index of 225 issues, the benchmark indicator of the Tokyo stock market, down by 1.4 percent today. 
 In the elections, the Liberal Democratic Party, which has ruled Japan for most of the period since World War II and is considered pro-business, met with only partial success. It strengthened its hand in the lower house of Parliament, but not quite enough to completely avoid the possibility of a repeat of the current unstable coalition Government.
And to the extent that the Liberal Democrats now have more control over the Government, they are likely to proceed cautiously on deregulating business and streamlining Japan's powerful bureaucracy.
"The impact on business? I think very little," said Yotaro Kobayashi, the chairman of the Fuji Xerox Corporation, a joint venture of Xerox and the Fuji Photo Film Company.
American businesses, some of which had been counting on deregulation to open Japan's markets, will also probably be disappointed with the election results.
Washington's efforts to negotiate trade agreements in the last few years have been hindered by Japan's lack of political leadership and frequent changes in government. To the extent the Japanese Government, and Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto, are now stronger, reaching such agreements might be easier.
But Mr. Hashimoto may not be the strong politician who can bring Japan's powerful bureaucracy to heel and single-handedly deliver trade compromises. He made his reputation by standing up to the Clinton Administration in the 1995 automobile talks and has shown no inclination to be the "fixer" that some American officials seek in Japan.
Tokyo stocks dropped significantly but not violently today because the Liberal Democratic Party did not win a clear victory. The Nikkei average fell 309.35 points to close at 21,302.95, wiping out about half of the 644-point gain the index recorded last week after newspaper polls predicted that the party might gain a majority of the 500 seats in Parliament.
[Stocks continued to slip on Tuesday. At the end of the session, the Nikkei was down 179.27 points, or more than eight-tenths of 1 percent, at 21,123.68.]
On currency markets, the dollar rose to a high for the year of 112.89 yen in Tokyo trading today. Later, the dollar set a 33-month high against the yen for New York trading, reaching 112.77 yen.
The election results and remarks today by Yasuo Matsushita, the governor of the Bank of Japan, suggest that interest rates here will remain near zero for the next few months, which tends to weaken the yen.
Analysts said it was difficult to completely predict the election's implications for the economy until it became clear which parties would take part in the new coalition -- and what conditions they would demand for joining.
The Liberal Democratic Party, which despite its name is conservative, won 239 seats, compared with the 212 it held before the election. That is enough to insure domination of the new coalition, but is still about two dozen seats shy of what is needed for a comfortable majority.
"We would prefer a single-party Government, realistically and particularly the L.D.P.," said Masaya Miyoshi, the president of Keidanren, the most powerful business lobbying organization in Japan.
Japan's economy faces serious problems. At 3.3 percent, unemployment is high by Japanese standards, as companies, forced by the strong yen, have moved factories abroad in recent years. Japan, which once chastised the United States for running huge Federal budget deficits, now has a budget deficit that is among the deepest of developed nations. Banks are laden with bad debt.
But this year the yen has weakened and the economy, propped up by low interest rates and high public-works spending, is growing again at about a 3 percent rate, and unemployment has stabilized.
While the economy is expected to weaken again next year, for now the pressure has lessened for radical deregulation that would produce pain and unemployment in the short run, even if it would lead to long-term efficiencies and promote the formation of new businesses.
Despite the growing power of the Liberal Democratic Party, executives said, it would be too simple to say the clock had been turned back to before 1993, when the party had ruled Japan for nearly four decades in a partnership with the bureaucracy and big business.
While that triangle still exists, large corporations have been globalizing, so their interests are less intertwined with those of Japan's economy. Corporate contributions to the Liberal Democratic Party have fallen, in part because a new election law provides public subsidies to candidates, lowering the influence of business on politics.
Corporate executives also say that the Liberal Democrats will have to deliver some changes.
"Hashimoto is no fool," Mr. Kobayashi of Fuji Xerox said. "He knows which way the wind is blowing and he knows the L.D.P. cannot live without the support of business and the society."
The party has realized that it must appeal more to urban consumers, rather than the shrinking number of farmers in the country.
Another factor hailed by some businessmen was that the Social Democratic Party, which is even more resistant to liberalization than the Liberal Democratic Party, was severely weakened by its poor showing in Sunday's election.
The Social Democrats, who have been in the ruling coalition with the Liberal Democrats, blocked the Government from lifting a restriction against holding companies, which business groups want to help corporate revamping. Opponents fear that holding companies would lead to domination of the economy by large conglomerates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 4901 (TSE) (68%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

COMPANY: FUJIFILM HOLDINGS CORP (68%); FUJI XEROX CO LTD (55%); BANK OF JAPAN (50%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS DEREGULATION (93%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); US DOLLAR (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (69%); JOINT VENTURES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); WORLD WAR II (55%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



524 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Moscow Journal;
Anticolonial U., Now a Hotbed of Business Majors

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 17

 BODY:
In the old days, Fidel Castro and Yasir Arafat walked the halls as guests of Patrice Lumumba University. And in the dormitories, the talk among students was of revolution and of radical plots to shake off colonial and imperial masters.
"We were idealists," said Valery A. Belov, a Russian law professor who graduated from the university in 1973. "We thought we could change the world." 
 Created by the Soviet Communist Party in 1960, Patrice Lumumba University had as its main mission to recruit and train students from developing countries. It was hoped that those young men and women, who studied free of charge, might ultimately carry the Communist revolution across the third world. The school was renamed for Mr. Lumumba, the first Prime Minister of Zaire, after he was killed during a coup backed by the United States in 1961.
But when the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, so did much of the university's funding. Scholarships dried up, and poor foreign students stopped coming.
Today the university, which once educated Nicaraguan guerrillas, Sri Lankan revolutionaries and the terrorist known as Carlos, now courts those who can pay their own way. Many are the wealthy sons and daughters of the very third-world capitalists the Soviets once dreamed of overthrowing.
"Yeah, they all used to be Communists here and some of the teachers still are," said Olawale Bewaji, a 21-year-old engineering student from Lagos, Nigeria, who listens to American rap music in his spare time.
Mr. Bewaji, the son of a Nigerian doctor, says he is more interested in democracy than Communism. "I just tell them, 'You're old-fashioned,' " he said.
Five years after the collapse of the Communist ideology that created it, Patrice Lumumba University -- now renamed the Russian People's Friendship University -- is still struggling to establish a new identity in a democratic Russia.
Foreigners, who once dominated the university with 65 percent of the enrollment of 7,000, now make up only 30 percent of the student body. Most of its students are Russian now, many of them young people who could not gain entrance into more prestigious universities.
The third-world students who do walk the campus these days carry beepers, wear Levis and rent movies for VCR's they brought from home. Most dream about making money, not revolution.
Confronted with the new reality, the administration added business courses, tossed out Communist texts and dropped classes like Marxist Philosophy.
It is only natural then that business administration is one of the university's most popular courses. The once-required staple, "History of the Communist Party," is now history itself.
Even the remaining Communist students here arrive with capitalist sensibilities.
"When I got to the dormitory there was nothing but a bed in the room -- and an uncomfortable bed at that," complained Xuan Yizeng, 23, an economics major from Beijing. "I had to buy a television and a radio myself. Can you believe that?"
The university still attracts foreign students because its diplomas still carry prestige in parts of the third world and because its tuition is only $2,000 a year -- a bargain when compared with some Western institutions.
But the changes sadden some old timers, who miss the heated political discussions at the university.
"Now there are just a few dances, that's it," said Professor Belov, who heads the university's graduate association.
"The students study business and they think about making money," he said. "In the old days, we thought about the struggle. Now, they study capitalist ideas and forget they're in the birth place of socialism."
The welcome that the young foreigners once received from Russians, who viewed the students as allies in the battle against capitalism, is also strained.
"The Soviet hope was that these students would go back and become spokesmen for the Russian view of the world," said Elizabeth K. Valkenier, an American who is a resident scholar at Columbia University's Harriman Institute of Russian Studies. "Together, they were going to strangle the West."
Now, foreign students say, they encounter hostility and racism on the streets from police officers and average citizens. Several years ago, an African student was killed by the police during a confrontation here with black students who complained that the police harassed them.
And students say they are still tormented by police officers, who stop them, demand to see their visas and then insist on a bribe before letting them go.
"The first Russian word I learned was 'fine,' ' said Mr. Xuan, which he said was the polite word that the police often use when demanding money.
"On the metro, the people, they yell, 'Go home!' " he said.
Such hostility surprised Osahon Egho, an 18-year-old law student from Nigeria. Her father, now an engineer, attended the university as a young man. He still raves about the hearty welcome he received here.
"Foreigners, we were like kings, that's what my father tells me," Ms. Egho said. "But now we're second-class citizens."
She says that she and her friends would have preferred to study in the West. But since Nigerian gangs have been linked to the heroin trade, Nigerians often find it difficult to get student visas, she said.
"America wouldn't let us in," Ms. Egho said. "London wouldn't let us in. So we came here. I think I regret it."
But even students who complain about crumbling dormitories and Communist professors still commend the university's academic rigor.
And the school still takes pride in its history, despite the changed environment. In a glass case, in the Patrice Lumumba Museum, for instance, hangs a metal etching bestowed by Mr. Arafat that depicts a wished-for Palestine.
It is surrounded by gifts from students and politicians from around the world: elephant tusks from Sudan, a glittering dagger from Yemen, an Aztec calendar from Mexico.
For while few of the university's students set off Communist revolutions, many have become respected political and scientific leaders in their countries. They include doctors in Japan, economists in Chile, politicians in Mexico and engineers in Nigeria.
And this year, for the first time since 1992, the Government is once again offering scholarships to foreign students.
Even without the ideological glue that once brought people together, the school still hopes to unite foreign students and to produce well-trained professionals who will play significant roles in their countries, Professor Belov said.
"Everything has changed," he said, "but what remains is the idea of the friendship among peoples."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Once known as Patrice Lumumba University, the Moscow campus now attracts many wealthy students from the third world who take business courses. Osahon Egho, left, and Olawale Bewaji are from Nigeria. (James Hill for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NIGERIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (70%); 

COMPANY: RUSSIAN PEOPLE'S FRIENDSHIP UNIVERSITY (PATRICE LUMUMBA UNIV) UNITED NATIONS UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUSSIAN PEOPLE'S FRIENDSHIP UNIVERSITY (PATRICE LUMUMBA UNIV) UNITED NATIONS UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NIGERIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (70%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); TERRORISM (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (54%); RAP MUSIC (50%); 

PERSON: SWARNS, RACHEL L FIDEL CASTRO (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



525 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE REPUBLICAN;
With Softer Tone, Dole Turns to Economy

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: KALAMAZOO, Mich., Oct. 21

 BODY:
After a weeklong assault on President Clinton's ethics, Bob Dole downshifted today and went back to extolling his economic package as his bus caravan rolled through the brilliant fall foliage of southern Michigan.
"The mainstay, the centerpiece, of this campaign is an economic package," the Republican Presidential nominee asserted at a low-key forum in Detroit this morning before setting out on a two-day venture across this important Midwestern state, where he trails President Clinton in public opinion polls by double-digits. 
 Rather than wag his finger in shame at the Clinton Administration, Mr. Dole, who has been fighting a head cold, took on a ruminating tone.
He noted that his televised debate last week with the President had drawn a relatively small audience, and said: "So maybe there's no interest in politics. Maybe nobody cares. Or maybe they're just getting around to focus on it and are beginning to make up their minds, because there's a lot of movement out there."
"We see the polls go up and down, up and down," he continued. "And they can't all be right. And they can't all be wrong. Probably some are in the middle."
Once he was on the road, Mr. Dole, wearing a white baseball jacket, sought to delineate his philosophical differences with Mr. Clinton by mentioning social issues that have not been part of his standard campaign fare. In town after town, Mr. Dole expressed his support for constitutional amendments to protect the flag, allow voluntary school prayer and balance the budget. And he spoke against Mr. Clinton's veto of a bill that would have banned some late-term abortions.
"I'm not certain how he connects to the people in this part of Michigan," Mr. Dole said of Mr. Clinton in Chelsea, where the midday crowd was packed with screaming children who had been let out of school to see him. "I hope he doesn't connect. He says he connects everywhere."
Until his last stop, here at dusk, Mr. Dole confined his criticisms to Mr. Clinton's public policies, although he did not pass up a chance to describe the President, who avoided the draft in the 1960's, as "AWOL," and made reference to his own "sacrifice"in World War II.
"I fought for my country before," the former Senator said repeatedly across the state where he recuperated from his war wounds. "I'm fighting for my country here today."
At a large rally here, Mr. Dole reiterated his allegations of what he said were ethical lapses by the Administration. "I will not sell access to the White House," he vowed.
His remarks included several unexplained references to "foreign aid" from Indonesia, an indirect allusion to contributions to Mr. Clinton from people with ties to an Indonesian business family.
But Mr. Dole was not as lacerating as he was last week. What seemed to be a change in tack came amid considerable discussion as to how effective his challenges to the President's ethics had been.
Representative Fred Upton, a Republican whose district in southwestern Michigan includes Kalamazoo, said in an interview that he had advised Mr. Dole that people here cared more about the economy.
"My reaction to the ethics is, people know it's out there," Mr. Upton said. "It's not a new revelation. He doesn't need to bring it up over and over, but people really do care about the deficit."
Generally, Mr. Dole stuck to his economic message. In Detroit, speaking of his tax cut plan, he said that he and his running mate, Jack Kemp, who was seated nearby, recognize that "to make it work in the right way we have to cut spending -- if we're going to reduce taxes, we need to balance the budget." But Mr. Dole also hinted at displeasure with his running mate.
Mr. Dole's campaign spokesman, Nelson Warfield, denied reports in the current issue of Newsweek magazine about tensions between the two candidates. But throughout the day, not all of Mr. Dole's references to his running mate were harmonious.
In Detroit, as Mr. Dole talked about his economic plan and its 15 percent tax cut, an approach that he once deplored, he pointed to their deep philosophical differences, saying: "People say, 'Oh, Bob Dole had this reputation as a deficit hawk.' And I still do. I'm a deficit hawk. Jack Kemp is a supply-sider."
In perhaps his most direct suggestion of something amiss, Mr. Dole said: "Jack gave me some good advice about a month ago. He said: 'Don't watch the scoreboard. If you watch the scoreboard, somebody's going to fumble.' It might be the quarterback or it might be the running back -- whatever role they're playing these days."
Mr. Kemp, a former quarterback in professional football, periodically calls himself the quarterback of the ticket, but then retreats and calls himself the running back.
Mr. Dole's comment suggested that Mr. Kemp thought he was running the ticket and could make the calls -- as he apparently did on Sunday when he said that legal immigrants should be able to make campaign contributions, disagreeing with part of a campaign finance proposal that was Mr. Dole's central theme of the day.
But Mr. Dole was adamant today that only citizens should be able to give money to candidates.
"If you're not a citizen of the United States, and you can't vote in America, you shouldn't be able to influence elections in America with your money," the former Senator said at a rally in Jackson and repeated throughout the day. "You can't vote, you can't contribute."
Mr. Kemp left Detroit for San Diego to begin a two-day sweep in California, part of a renewed effort by the Dole campaign there.
Mr. Kemp's campaign director, Wayne Berman, said that the shift in strategy had also forced a shift in spending and that the campaign had withdrawn television advertising in several states, including New Jersey.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Referring to President Clinton, Bob Dole told a crowd in Chelsea, Mich., yesterday: "I'm not certain how he connects to the people in this part of Michigan. I hope he doesn't connect. He says he connects everywhere." (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ETHICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (64%); CHURCH & STATE (64%); WORLD WAR II (60%); ABORTION (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



526 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
Justices Reject Challenge to Gay Policy

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21

 BODY:
The Supreme Court today turned down the first constitutional challenge to reach it under the "don't ask, don't tell" policy that presumes that acknowledged homosexuals are unfit for military service.
The Court's action, taken without comment, left standing the decision of a Federal court that earlier this year refused to reverse the discharge of a highly rated Navy pilot, Lieut. Paul G. Thomasson. In March 1994, the day after the Navy put the new regulations into effect, Lieutenant Thomasson sent letters to four admirals for whom he had worked, announcing that "I am gay." Within weeks, the Navy convened a board of inquiry and eventually gave him an honorable discharge. 
 The Court's action today sets no precedent at the Supreme Court level, and does not foreclose the Justices from hearing another challenge to the policy. Other cases are working their way through Federal courts across the country, and lawyers for lesbian and gay members of the armed services said today that they expected the Supreme Court would confront the issue eventually.
In fact, cases now before the Federal District Court in New York and the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, present broader challenges to the "don't ask, don't tell" policy than did the Thomasson case. These other cases include challenges to the section of the law that makes subject to discharge a service member who "has engaged in, attempted to engage in, or solicited another to engage in a homosexual act or acts."
Mr. Thomasson, who lost his case by a 9-to-4 vote of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, limited his challenge to the adverse consequences that flow from a statement of homosexual identity.
The law makes a presumption that a member of the armed services who makes such a statement has also engaged in homosexual acts or has a "propensity" to engage in such acts, leaving the service member free to offer evidence to counter that presumption, as some have done successfully.
At his hearing, Lieutenant Thomasson refused to offer any evidence on the matter. "I will not go further in degrading myself by disproving a charge about sexual conduct that no one has made," he said.
In his Supreme Court appeal, Thomasson v. Perry, No. 96-1, he said, "At issue is whether the Government may restrict the freedom of an accomplished and dedicated military officer to utter a fundamental statement about who he is."
The former pilot argued that the Government's policy was based not on a determination that homosexuals cannot serve successfully -- since those who remain silent or are not named by others may remain in the military -- but rather on the "expected adverse reaction that some heterosexual listeners may have" to learning that a fellow member of the armed forces is homosexual.
Both the First Amendment and the constitutional guarantee of equal protection prevent the Government from basing a policy on "a desire to accommodate prejudice against homosexuals," he said.
In a brief urging the Justices not to hear an appeal of the Thomasson case, the Clinton Administration said the policy had a rational basis in the "considered professional judgment of military authorities" that openly gay people should not serve in the military. The brief quoted Congressional testimony from Colin L. Powell, the retired Army general who was Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, that "the cohesion and well-being of the force" would suffer if the ban was lifted.
Mr. Thomasson, now 33, served in the Navy for 10 years, receiving special assignments and superior performance ratings. The Navy conceded at his discharge hearing that his military record was "enviable," and his commanding officer supported his retention in the service.
He now manages a restaurant in the Washington area, one of his lawyers, Michelle Benecke of the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network, said today. "This is certainly not his life's ambition, and it is a waste of the taxpayers' dollars that trained him to be a computer whiz and a pilot," she said.
There were also these other developments at the Court today:
 
Vietnamese Visas
Citing a new Federal law limiting legal challenges to immigration decisions, the Court vacated a 1995 ruling by a Federal appellate court that the Government's refusal to process visas in Hong Kong for Vietnamese immigrants in refugee camps there violated Federal immigration law.
The Vietnamese involved in the case are not themselves refugees, but have relatives who are United States citizens or long-term legal residents and who have sponsored them for admission to the United States as immigrants.
For many years, the State Department had processed these visas in Hong Kong. But in December 1994 it changed the policy, requiring the Vietnamese to return home and apply for their documents there.
Arguing that this change would place a substantial hardship on people who had a legal right to enter the United States, a legal assistance organization sued and won a ruling from the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit that the new policy violated a provision that barred discrimination against "the issuance of an immigrant visa because of the person's nationality."
A new Federal law, the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, which took effect this month, gave the Secretary of State complete discretion to determine the procedures and locations for the processing of immigrant visas. Arguing that the new law removed the legal basis for the challenge in this case, the Clinton Administration asked the Court to vacate the appeals court's decision.
The case, U.S. Department of State v. Legal Assistance for Vietnamese Asylum Seekers, No. 95-1521, now goes back to the appellate court for an examination of how and whether the new law should apply.
William R. Stein, a lawyer for the Vietnamese, said today that he would argue that his clients should have the benefit of the policy that was in effect before the 1994 change that the appellate court had found to be illegal. He said the case affected fewer than 50 people, many of whom would face political and economic difficulties if they had to return to Vietnam for their immigration paperwork.
The Hong Kong government, which has been repatriating thousands of Vietnamese in an effort to clear the camps before China takes control of Hong Kong next summer, has told the United States that it will take no action against the group for the next three months to provide time for a legal resolution of their status.
 
Immunity Appeals
Accepting an appeal from four state liquor officials in Idaho, the Court agreed to decide whether state courts must make immediate appeals available to state officials seeking a form of immunity from civil lawsuits that accuse them of violating someone's constitutional rights.
Under the Supreme Court's precedents, Federal courts must provide accelerated appeals of immunity determinations. The type of immunity at issue, known as "qualified immunity," is a shield against liability for officials who can show that their actions were reasonable and did not violate clearly established constitutional rights.
In analyzing the issue for Federal courts, the Supreme Court has concluded that immediate appeals on the immunity question should be permitted so that officials need not go through an entire trial, only to find at the appellate level that their claim of immunity was valid all along.
However, many state courts consider an immunity determination at the trial level to be only a preliminary ruling, and not a final judgment that qualifies for a separate appeal.
A friend of the court brief from 32 states, filed on behalf of the Idaho officials, urged the Justices to apply the Federal rule to the states. "The immunity defense is critical to the effective operation of state government," the brief said, describing the defense as "a protection against attacks on reasonable official acts and decisions."
The case, Johnson v. Fankell, No. 96-292, began as a lawsuit against the officials by an employee whom they had dismissed. The trial court denied the qualified immunity defense; the Idaho Supreme Court, regarding that determination as only preliminary, refused to hear an appeal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RHD (NZSE) (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) RICHMOND LTD (65%); US NAVY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) US NAVY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HOMOSEXUALITY; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; STATES (US); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION ARMED FORCES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DISMISSALS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); REFUGEES (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); IMMUNITY (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (71%); 

PERSON: THOMASSON, PAUL G (LT) PAUL G THOMASSON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



527 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Election's Outcome Strengthens Premier's Position

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 21

 BODY:
Flush from his victory in a national election on Sunday, Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto began piecing together a coalition today that will enable him to form a new government and rule Japan in the years ahead.
Mr. Hashimoto, looking dapper and more ebullient than usual, met this afternoon with leaders of the two parties that backed him in a governing coalition before the election. He formally asked both parties to help his Liberal Democratic Party form a new government. 
 "We hope we will be able to continue to assume responsibility in politics, together with our coalition partners," Mr. Hashimoto said at a news conference this afternoon.
The election marked a triumph for the Liberal Democrats, who single-handedly governed Japan for most of the postwar era, and it suggested that a three-year-old rebellion against politics as usual has collapsed, at least for now. Most analysts expect a continuation of the cautious policies that have marked the last couple of years.
While some experts say Japan is now at a crossroads on economic, political and security issues, they also fret that it may still be there in a couple of years, reluctant to choose any particular path.
Voters gave the Liberal Democratic Party 239 seats, up from 211, in the 500-member lower house of Parliament, the more important chamber. That is a plurality of seats and just a dozen short of a majority, so the Liberal Democrats may be able to attract enough defectors from other parties to take charge without relying on a coalition.
But at the same time, possible coalition partners apparently will have many fewer seats, so that the overall governing coalition may have a smaller majority and therefore be more fragile.
Ambassador Walter F. Mondale, no political neophyte himself, said today that he thought the election results would help strengthen some aspects of the relationship between America and Japan. While foreign policy played almost no role in the campaign, the Liberal Democrats have traditionally valued warm relations with the United States.
"In terms of strengthening the future of the security relationship, I think it's a good election," Mr. Mondale said. "It's very positive." He noted that there had been very little criticism of American military bases in Japan during the campaign.
He said that it was more difficult to gauge the effect on trade policy toward the United States, but that the Government might emerge more able to make decisions quickly and that such decisiveness would help relations with Washington.
The Government will presumably be more decisive if the Liberal Democrats can lure more people into their fold, and tonight the newspaper Yomiuri Shimbun reported that they were making considerable progress. Yomiuri said the Liberal Democrats had already won the cooperation of a group of independents and of a defecting faction from the main opposition party, the New Frontier.
As a result, the newspaper said, the Liberal Democrats can count on 260 votes, a clear majority, though not as big as they would like.
The Liberal Democrats need at least 265 seats to control the lower house and its committees comfortably, and they would like a broader coalition so as to control the upper house, which is much less powerful but still can block legislation.
Mr. Hashimoto appealed in particular to Takako Doi, one of the few senior women in Japanese politics, who is the head of the Social Democratic Party. The Social Democrats were a member of Mr. Hashimoto's coalition but were devastated in the election on Sunday, dropping from 30 seats to 15, leaving Miss Doi noncommittal about whether her party would join the new government.
A leading Liberal Democrat also sounded out the Democratic Party, which campaigned on a platform of streamlining government. But leaders of the Democratic Party were cool to the idea.
While the Liberal Democrats negotiate to form a government, the opposition parties may also need to get together to discuss cooperation.
The voting on Sunday was the first under a new electoral system, and it made clear the disadvantages of a fractured opposition. There were many races in which the seat was won by a Liberal Democrat over several other parties that split the opposition vote.
"There's a two-party logic in the new electoral system that wasn't there before," said Kent E. Calder, a Japan specialist at Princeton University who is visiting Tokyo. "But the problem is that a two-party system requires a cohesive opposition party, and the tendency in Japan has been for the opposition to be fragmented."
The election set a record for low voter turnout, 59.6 percent, as many voters have concluded that Japanese politics never really produce change and are irrelevant to the real world.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (PRIME MIN); MONDALE, WALTER F (AMB) RYUTARO HASHIMOTO (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



528 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Integrated Health to Buy Coram in $280 Million Deal
Integrated Health Services, a home health care and specialized nursing home company, agreed to buy Coram Healthcare, a troubled, debt-laden home care company, for about $280 million in stock.
The deal, which includes the assumption of $375 million in Coram debt, would create one of the largest companies that provide care for patients whom hospitals no longer find profitable. [Page D2.]
 
Stronger Profits at Oil Companies
Several major oil companies reported higher earnings as surging prices for crude oil and natural gas more than offset rising refining costs. Oil company stocks, which have rallied recently, were flat.
Texaco said net earnings jumped nearly 50 percent, compared with the third quarter of 1995; Chevron reported a 29 percent increase, excluding special items, and Exxon said profits rose 4 percent. The results met or slightly exceeded Wall Street expectations. [Page D4.]
 
Stocks Seesaw, Ending Down
Stocks seesawed, ending slightly lower after a morning rally following I.B.M.'s earnings report gave way to heavy profit-taking. The Dow Jones industrial average ended down 3.36 points, at 6,090.87, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 6.07 points, to 1,236.41. [D14.]
 
Treasury prices fell slightly, weighed down by more than $30 billion of notes to be auctioned today and tomorrow. The yield on the 30-year bond edged up to 6.80 percent. [D21.]
 
Election Disappoints Japan Inc.
Corporate executives in Japan have been looking to the Government for two things -- strong leadership, and economic deregulation that would lay the groundwork for Japan Inc. to roar again. But last weekend's national elections will probably fall short of either of these outcomes. [D9.]

Few Issues Remain in G.M. Strike
Representatives of G.M. and the Canadian Automobile Workers union struggled with a few remaining issues in a 19-day strike, as G.M. temporarily laid off nearly 11,000 more American workers. [D4.]
 
Betting on the Internet's Future
The Frontier Corporation and Qwest Communications announced plans for a $2 billion national network to carry telephone conversations and data. [D4.]

United Airlines' Choice Questioned
United Airlines' surprising selection of Fallon McElligott and Young & Rubicam to share its $120 million account is raising questions about how well those two fiercely independent agencies can cooperate. But they voice optimism. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D13.]
 
RJR Reports Stronger Profits
RJR Nabisco Holdings announced that profits were increasing in its Nabisco food unit and its international tobacco business. But the company's results were marred by erosion in its domestic cigarette business. Net income in the third quarter rose 4 percent to $225 million, or 66 cents a share. Revenue increased 7 percent to $4.35 billion. [D2.]

Corporate Credit Ratings Improve
The rising stock market is having a very positive effect on American companies: corporate credit quality, as measured by changes in bond ratings, appears to be better than ever. So far this year, Moody's has upgraded the ratings of 221 companies, compared with 146 companies downgraded. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D14.]

USAir Earnings Rise 57%
USAir said earnings rose an unexpectedly strong 57 percent, to $67.7 million on robust demand for international flights. [D4.]


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 6,090.87, down 3.36
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.80%, up 0.01
The Dollar -- 112.77 yen, up 0.30

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CTL (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (63%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (51%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FRONTIER CORP (63%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%); FALLON MCELLIGOTT (52%); CENTURYLINK INC (52%); KRAFT NABISCO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HEALTH CARE (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HOME HEALTH CARE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); BONDS (77%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); NATURAL GAS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); AUCTIONS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (70%); ELECTIONS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (63%); TOBACCO MFG (60%); 

PERSON: G M STRIKE REPRESENTATIVES (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



529 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE POLLS;
AGGRESSIVE TURN BY DOLE APPEARS TO BE BACKFIRING

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21

 BODY:
Bob Dole's sustained two-week assault on President Clinton's ethics appears to have backfired, with the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll finding that Mr. Dole did not improve his standing and even damaged his image among voters.
The poll, taken over four days at the height of Mr. Dole's offensive, shows that the Republican nominee has aggravated his reputation as the candidate more prone to attack, less concerned about addressing issues and more responsible for unfair commercials against his opponent. 
 Still more discouraging for Mr. Dole is that for the first time, he has lost a crucial advantage: the perception that he is more trustworthy. Forty-nine percent of Americans said Mr. Dole could be trusted to keep his word; in the last Times/ CBS News Poll, taken before the debate last week, the figure was 56 percent. Mr. Clinton's rating on trust is now 45 percent, statistically even with Mr. Dole's.
While Presidential races usually tighten in the final weeks, the new poll of 1,148 registered voters shows Mr. Clinton's lead now at 22 points, compared with 17 points last week.
Nelson Warfield, Mr. Dole's chief spokesman, said the findings were at odds with the campaign's numbers, which were not divulged. "The New York Times's numbers neither track our internal battleground polling nor match the sky-high enthusiasm we're seeing on the road," he said. "Maybe the Times poll oversampled Indonesian billionaires. But the bottom line is that the polls remain highly volatile; we're hardly in the final round and Bill Clinton still has a glass jaw. All we need to do is land the right punch."
The nominees nearly crossed paths in Detroit today, as Mr. Dole began a bus tour across Michigan. In addition to the strikes over ethics, he returned today to another campaign staple, his 15 percent across-the-board tax cut. [Page A22.]
Mr. Clinton, also in Detroit, ignored questions about ethics, preferring to have surrogates attack Mr. Dole's "political deathbed conversion" to campaign finance reform. [Page A23.]
The Dole campaign said today that it was dispatching a team of veteran strategists to California for the rest of the race, in the latest demonstration of its move in recent weeks to contest the state at the expense of other battlegrounds.
With the election two weeks from Tuesday, Mr. Dole's advisers had hoped the ethics offensive would help rescue the campaign. Instead, with the polls showing he is in even worse shape, many leading Republicans are increasingly turning their attention to saving their party from losing the House or Senate.
It is not clear from the poll precisely why Mr. Dole's attacks have not helped his campaign, but the survey indicates that neither the long-running Whitewater controversy nor the recent attack over the Clinton camp's fund-raising tactics has appreciably influenced voters.
Mr. Dole's assault on Mr. Clinton's ethics also may have reinforced a perception of the former Senate Republican leader as mean or overshadowed efforts by Mr. Dole to say what he would do as President.
The poll, conducted Oct. 17-20, found that among the probable electorate, 55 percent favored Mr. Clinton and Vice President Al Gore; 33 percent backed Mr. Dole and running mate Jack Kemp, and 5 percent supported the Reform Party ticket headed by Ross Perot. The survey has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
A major disappointment for Mr. Dole in poll is that the issue that has been the foundation of his attacks recently -- the accusation that the Democratic Party accepted illegal campaign money from an Indonesian businessman -- has not roused the public. Only 42 percent said they had heard "some" or "a lot" about the issue. And among those who had heard or read anything about the controversy, 45 percent agreed that it was "politics as usual," and only 20 percent considered it a "serious issue."
In the second and final Presidential debate last week, Mr. Dole, while assailing Mr. Clinton's ethics, sought to avoid appearing too negative by also displaying his humor. But the weeks that Mr. Dole and his aides openly agonized over just how negative to appear may have fed into a lingering public notion that he is a slash-and-burn artist.
Mr. Clinton, meanwhile, stayed clear of such attacks on Mr. Dole during the debate, even though his campaign for months has run a far more negative televised onslaught against Mr. Dole.
Although both sides have been on the attack, voters do not see it that way. While Mr. Dole's favorability rating remains virtually unchanged at 28 percent compared with 49 percent for Mr. Clinton, on several other questions it appears that Mr. Dole has failed to gain ground -- or has lost support.
The most striking change for Mr. Dole is how many more people view him as on the attack. Sixty-three percent said he spent more time attacking Mr. Clinton than "explaining" what he would do as President, up from 50 percent in the last poll. Twenty-four percent said he was spending more time "explaining" than attacking, down from 40 percent a week ago. .
But Mr. Clinton is now viewed as even more above the fray. Seventy-three percent said he spent more time explaining, up from 68 percent in the last poll, and only 14 percent said he attacks more, down from 19 percent.
Only 43 percent said Mr. Dole was addressing "issues that matter to you," a decrease from 55 percent in the previous poll. In the meantime, 60 percent said that of Mr. Clinton, virtually unchanged from the last poll.
Voters see Mr. Dole as the more negative of the two candidates in his advertising. Of those who have seen commercials for the Presidential campaign, 45 percent said Dole campaign commercials had made unfair accusations against Mr. Clinton; 45 percent said they had not. By contrast, only 38 percent said Clinton campaign commercials had made unfair assertions about Mr. Dole; 58 percent said they had not.
Even as Mr. Dole's numbers are slipping, Mr. Clinton's standing related to ethics matters has changed little. Asked to compare the standards of conduct of people in the Clinton White House with past Administrations, 33 percent said it had lower standards and 58 percent said about the same. Those findings are virtually unchanged from last month.
Rahm Emanuel, a White House aide, said of the findings: "They made a huge mistake making Dole the hatchet man."
Only about half the voters said they watched or listened to the final Presidential debate. Of those who did, 63 percent said Mr. Clinton won, and 22 percent said Mr. Dole.
In another dynamic in the Presidential competition, voters see it as getting less, not more, lively in the closing weeks. Only 39 percent said it was "interesting," down from 44 percent last week. And 58 percent said the campaign was "dull," an increase from 50 percent in the last poll.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After a week of attacks on President Clinton's ethics, Bob Dole concentrated on promoting his economic plan yesterday. The Republican nominee and his running mate, Jack Kemp, campaigned in Detroit. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS; PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICAL ADVERTISING POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); ETHICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



530 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Burden of Welfare Changes Falls to State Case Workers

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C., Oct. 18

 BODY:
When Susan A. Christie teaches state employees about the new Federal welfare law, she clucks her tongue and moves her hand to imitate the action of a metronome.
"You have got to hear that clock ticking," she said in a three-day workshop for 24 case managers. "You must have a sense of urgency. There's a five-year lifetime limit on welfare under the new Federal law, a two-year limit for most families in South Carolina. We can't let them languish. Time is a-wasting." 
 The new law is forcing state officials to change the culture of welfare agencies around the country, shifting the focus from the determination of eligibility and the issuance of checks to employment and jobs. Unless welfare case managers make this change, the new law has no chance of success.
For many case workers, as for many welfare recipients, the change will be traumatic. State employees must now collaborate with welfare recipients and help them find jobs, a goal that may be thwarted if case workers are too paternalistic.
Ms. Christie, the director of professional development at the American Public Welfare Association, an organization of state and local officials and welfare policy experts, hops around the country training employees in different states. She told her class here: "We've been treating clients like children. But children don't get jobs. Children get taken care of by their parents. We must treat clients as adults, not as children. To tell people the new rules is a very adult thing to do."
Social service agencies, once a backwater of state government, have become a testing ground for the biggest experiment in social welfare policy since the New Deal.
Striding round the classroom here with a purposeful, no-nonsense manner, Ms. Christie asked students: "You know who's going to get people jobs under welfare reform? I'm looking at you! You should feel some weight on your shoulders. The President isn't going to get somebody a job. Congress isn't going to get somebody a job. There are folks in this country who don't think states can pull this off. But I do. You can make this piece of legislation come alive."
In state plans filed recently with the Federal Government, Arizona, Kentucky, Nebraska, Oklahoma and Utah all affirmed the need for cultural change.
"Changing the culture of the welfare office to support work and self-sufficiency requires that the philosophy and purpose of the program change," the Utah plan said. "Financial assistance is seen as a support service to enable adults to participate in employment-related activities, not as an entitlement."
James T. Clark, director of South Carolina's Department of Social Services, said: "The biggest challenge for us is to change the culture, the bureaucracy, of welfare. Case workers here and throughout the country are disliked because we have treated clients in a demeaning, dispiriting way. We send clients a message that says, 'You're a loser, you can't make it, but that's all right because the Government will take care of you.' "
The number of people on welfare in South Carolina has declined 15 percent in the last two years, to 115,000. But in a sign of the new emphasis on results, Mr. Clark recently told social service directors in 8 of the state's 46 counties that their performance was unsatisfactory, in part because they had not placed enough welfare recipients in jobs.
Under the old law, Ms. Christie said, case workers could tell poor people, in effect: "I'm the boss. I have the money. I have something you want." And for many case managers, she says, "it's very painful to give up that kind of power."
In Washington, Federal officials are still debating the merits of the new welfare law. Some liberal Democrats still express outrage because they see the law as unjust or immoral, a betrayal of the nation's obligation to the poor. State officials, especially those on the front lines, do not have the luxury of criticizing the new policy. They are supposed to make it work, and their concerns are intensely practical.
Elizabeth E. Miller, a case manager for South Carolina's Department of Social Services in rural Barnwell, is trying to figure out how welfare recipients will get to jobs because "we have no public transportation, no taxis, no buses."
Lawerence Jackson, a case manager in Bishopville, S.C., said: "The paperwork keeps growing and growing. In addition to the old forms for determining eligibility, we now have a whole new set of paperwork for welfare reform -- employment plans, individual self-sufficiency plans, referrals to job clubs and so on."
Indeed, case managers still have all the old duties: interviewing applicants, verifying income and expenses, assessing eligibility, visiting welfare recipients in their homes.
In the past, welfare mothers were entitled to public assistance regardless of whether they worked, but under the new law, they must work within two years of receiving aid.
Charlene D. Garner, a case manager in Charleston, S.C., said, "A lot of people seem to think they're owed that money."
And Ms. Christie asked: "Why shouldn't they think that? We've called it an entitlement. But it's not an entitlement anymore."
Ms. Christie, a former welfare official in Utah and Colorado, tells case workers here that the behavior of welfare recipients is not right or wrong, good or bad, except as it helps or hinders them in getting jobs.
"Think of your clients as unemployed people, not as welfare mommas," she said. "Make work the pre-eminent theme of all your interactions with clients."
Case managers seem to have heard the message. They celebrate each success. "When a client gets a job, we all holler and scream, the whole office," Ms. Miller said.
Although the Federal law sets a lifetime limit of five years on welfare payments to any family, states may set stricter limits. And South Carolina has chosen to do so, with a two-year limit for most families.
Because welfare recipients "go over the cliff in two years," Ms. Christie said, state agencies can no longer be slow in providing the services needed to get jobs. A welfare recipient who needs counseling from a "job coach" or instruction in English as a second language cannot wait six months, she said.
John C. Walker, a welfare worker for 13 years, handles cases in Richland County, which includes Columbia. "A family that's been on welfare for two or three generations will have real trouble finding jobs," he said.
But Mr. Walker added: "The concept behind these reforms should have been in place 20 years ago. The old welfare system fostered dependency. It was dehumanizing. It taught people to be liars and cheats. We've been kidding ourselves to think that people can live in Charleston, S.C., on $159 a month." That amount, the maximum public assistance payment for a two-person family in South Carolina, is less than one-third of the Federal poverty level.
Through case studies and role-playing exercises, state employees learn how to coach welfare recipients who say, for example: "I feel like a real loser. Nobody wants to hire me because of my bad hand."
Ms. Christie cautions case managers not to blame their clients. "You don't get to say, 'I had bad clients, so I couldn't get them jobs,' " she said.
At the same time, she said, case managers must not be too paternalistic. "In the name of protecting our clients," she said, "we have marginalized them. Let's not be too quick to assume that they won't change their behavior in the new world order. If you have written off any of your clients, you can be sure they won't get work."
Under the Federal law, states may exempt 20 percent of welfare recipients from the five-year limit on public assistance. But Ms. Christie said: "You cannot know who should be exempt when they walk in the door. If you work with them for two years, you may find that they don't need to be exempt." Thus, she said, it may be "a self-fulfilling prophecy" to classify anyone as unemployable.
Ms. Christie told the case managers: "You will be a role model for your clients, showing them how to be self-sufficient and deal with change."
When case managers were just issuing checks, they could treat all clients the same, Ms. Christie said. "But under welfare reform," she said, "every client needs a customized employment plan. You get jobs for people as individuals, one by one, not as a group."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan A. Christie ran a training session for state social services workers in Columbia, S.C. (Wade Spees for The New York Times)(pg. D26)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SERVICES (69%); AMERICAN PUBLIC WELFARE ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN PUBLIC WELFARE ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PUBLIC WELFARE ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN PUBLIC WELFARE ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LABOR; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FAMILY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT JAMES T CLARK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



531 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: RIGHTIST IS VICTOR OVER SANDINISTAS IN NICARAGUA VOTE

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Oct. 21

 BODY:
Decisively rejecting a bid by the former guerrilla fighters of the Sandinista National Liberation Front to return to power through the ballot box, Nicaraguan voters have instead turned further to the right, electing a candidate who advocates untrammeled free enterprise and a closer relationship with the United States.
Incomplete official returns and informal ballot counts compiled by foreign election observers gave Arnoldo Aleman, a former Mayor of Managua who ran under the banner of the Liberal Alliance, a lead of nearly 10 percentage points over his rival, former President Daniel Ortega Saavedra, the Sandinista leader. Though Mr. Ortega has yet to concede defeat, Mr. Aleman was quick today to proclaim himself the winner. 
 "With full confidence, I can confirm our victory," Mr. Aleman, a 50-year-old lawyer and coffee grower, said this afternoon as his supporters gathered at party headquarters to celebrate their triumph over the revolutionaries who ruled this country for more than a decade. "We have consolidated democracy in Nicaragua."
At a news conference this afternoon, however, Mr. Ortega challenged that statement, saying that "at this moment we cannot recognize the results because we have found a series of anomalies" in the vote. With Sandinista supporters chanting "Fraud, fraud!" Mr. Ortega said the "serious irregularities" would require a complete recount, but he provided no evidence to support his complaint.
With just over half of the nearly two million ballots cast on Sunday counted by early tonight, Mr. Aleman had 48.5 percent of the vote, enough to spare him the runoff with Mr. Ortega he had hoped to avoid. In a demonstration of the importance Nicaraguans attach to the vote, more than 80 percent of all eligible voters took part in the election, in which 24 different parties offered candidates for President.
Mr. Aleman's apparent victory completes a stunning transformation of the political landscape in this country. Viewed less than a decade ago as a den of Communist subversion by the Reagan Administration, which sponsored a long and bloody guerrilla insurgency aimed at overthrowing the Sandinistas, Nicaragua will now be led by a man whose economic program would not be out of place in the Republican Party platform.
The outcome is a resounding defeat both for the Sandinistas as a party and for Mr. Ortega personally. Pushing aside the protests of many members of his party, Mr. Ortega had abandoned many planks of his party's leftist platform in an effort to win over voters suspicious of the Sandinistas' past.
"Like 1990, this vote was a referendum on the Sandinistas and their years in power," a Latin American diplomat here said today. "The results make it clear the people voted not so much for Aleman as they did against Ortega."
Mr. Ortega lost the presidency to Violeta Barrios de Chamorro in the 1990 election. She was prohibited from seeking re-election by constitutional reforms enacted during her administration that barred two consecutive terms for a President. She said from the start of her six-year term, however, that she did not intend to seek another.
The Sandinistas came to power in 1979 with broad popular support after overthrowing the 45-year dictatorship of the Somoza family. But they quickly plunged into confrontation with the United States and eventually alienated the middle class and the poor with confiscations of property, restrictions on constitutional rights and a policy of universal military conscription.
The results announced today gave Mr. Ortega, 50, virtually the same share of the vote he received as the losing incumbent in 1990, about 40 percent. Those Sandinistas who doubted his strategy are said by party insiders to be angry at the sacrifice of the party's commitment to socialism and revolution with nothing concrete to show in return.
"For Daniel, this defeat may prove to be even more costly than 1990," a former member of Mr. Ortega's Cabinet predicted. "The orthodox group within the front is going to be handing him the bill for this loss very soon."
Mr. Aleman, in contrast, campaigned against both the recent and more distant past, criticizing Mrs. Chamorro and the Sandinistas for the economic decline that has made this country the second-poorest in the Western Hemisphere, with an average per capita income of only $470 a year. He vowed to resolve outstanding land disputes and to take other steps to attract foreign investment and reactivate the economy.
Sharply critical of what he describes as Government inefficiency and corruption, Mr. Aleman advocates giving private investors, both foreign and Nicaraguan, a freer hand to generate jobs and trade. That puts him on the right of the Latin American political spectrum where the tradition of the state as the main engine of economic development remains strong.
In a television interview this afternoon, Mr. Aleman said he would pursue a policy of "national unity" and called on the Sandinista Front to be "a constructive force" and not "the destabilizing element it has been in the past." He described as "cordial" his relationship with the Nicaraguan Army and the police, which remain controlled by Sandinista officers.
"I invite Comandante Ortega to call on all to close ranks, to put down party flags and raise our blue-and-white national banner to help build Nicaragua," Mr. Aleman said shortly after visiting the graves of his parents and his wife. He also pledged "to work day and night to constantly combat poverty" and "to undertake the reconstruction of Nicaragua."
Mr. Ortega's initial response, however, was cautious and doubtful. In public declarations this afternoon, he urged Sandinista loyalists not to be discouraged by the preliminary results, and complained of "some anomalies and maneuvers designed to perturb the process" of casting and counting the vote.
In Sunday's balloting, many of the country's 9,000 polling places opened hours late, were burdened by incomplete voter lists, had to close early because they ran out of ballots, or simply turned away voters who had not received their registration cards. Foreign election observers were critical of the Supreme Electoral Council for those failings today, but attributed the shortcomings to ineptitude rather than fraud.
Former President Jimmy Carter, here as the leader of a bipartisan delegation of American observers, said today that Mr. Aleman's victory indicated that Nicaraguans "are looking for a fresh face and for what people think would be the best relationship with the United States." Among Nicaraguan voters, Mr. Carter added, there is "a presumption that Aleman will have a more receptive ear in Washington."
The Clinton Administration, which during the campaign expressed doubts about Mr. Ortega's commitment to democracy, was quick to pledge its support for Mr. Aleman. At a news conference here this morning, J. Brian Atwood, head of the American Government's official observer delegation here and administrator of the Agency for International Development, said he had already met with Mr. Aleman and expressed a desire to "work closely with him to spur economic development."
Mr. Aleman may also have been helped by a belated and indirect endorsement from Nicaragua's most important spiritual leader, Miguel Cardinal Obando y Bravo. In a homily delivered at a Thursday evening Mass, the Roman Catholic prelate said that "good Christians should take certain prudent steps" before casting their vote, and then turned to a parable to illustrate his point.
In what was universally interpreted here as a reference to Mr. Ortega's change of image and program after losing power six years ago, the Cardinal warned of a snake that had been cast out into the cold and was rescued by a passerby. The man, explaining that circumstances had changed, put the snake to his chest to warm it and restore it to life. The snake bit him and killed him.
"That is why in these days we should reflect on what is most beneficial for the nation," the Cardinal concluded. Having done that, a near majority of voters evidently decided that Mr. Aleman was their only viable option.
Rosa Maria Martinez, a teacher and Aleman supporter, said: "We want a resounding change for Nicaragua -- economic, political and social -- and that's what he has offered us. Historically, Nicaragua has always been betrayed by its rulers, so we hope that with this one we will find peace and the change of direction that we need."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arnoldo Aleman, 50, second from left, the right-wing candidate who was elected Nicaragua's new President, addressed supporters with his running mate, Enrique Bolanos, left, in Managua yesterday. (Reuters); Daniel Ortega Saavedra, Sandinista leader and former President of Nicaragua, speaking to the press yesterday, called for a recount. (Associated Press)(pg. A16)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: MANAGUA, NICARAGUA (70%); 

COMPANY: SANDINISTA NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT SANDINISTA NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SANDINISTA NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT SANDINISTA NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA; NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MANAGUA, NICARAGUA (70%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NICARAGUA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); REFERENDUMS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); ELECTION MONITORING (73%); LAWYERS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); COFFEE (54%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; ALEMAN, ARNOLDO; ORTEGA SAAVEDRA, DANIEL DANIEL ORTEGA SAAVEDRA (94%); ARNOLDO ALEMAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



532 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Agency to Hire Ross Roy Staffers

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
Fitch Inc., a corporate identity and design company, is opening an advertising agency by joining forces with employees who had worked at the Ross Roy Communications unit of the Omnicom Group in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. 
 William Faust, vice president at the Fitch office in Columbus, Ohio, said that Fitch would hire 20 to 25 former employees of Ross Roy who are leaving after that agency decided to focus on its Chrysler Corporation business by resigning all other accounts. Fitch will open an office in the Detroit area in January, Mr. Faust added, with three to five of those non-Chrysler accounts. Janet Muhlrman, 45, an executive vice president at Ross Roy, will become a vice president of Fitch and general manager of the new office. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (95%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (95%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (95%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (87%); MICHIGAN, USA (87%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: FITCH INC; ROSS ROY COMMUNICATIONS INC; OMNICOM GROUP FITCH RATINGS LTD (95%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (93%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FITCH INC; ROSS ROY COMMUNICATIONS INC; OMNICOM GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); OHIO, USA (87%); MICHIGAN, USA (87%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM FAUST (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996



533 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: Economic Sobriety

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Alan Ehrenhalt ("The Voters Sober Up," Op-Ed, Oct. 20) notes that the public mood is one of sobriety rather than ebullient satisfaction. The economic glass is half-full, and it's mostly the top half. But that's still better than the quarter-full of four years ago. Anxieties remain, particularly among working Americans who haven't gone to college, the poor and middle-aged employees who have lost or are in danger of losing their jobs. 
 There is much left to do, as President Clinton admits. If "sobriety" means realism about the pace at which the prospects of these people can be reversed, and the obstacles lying in the way, I'm all in favor of it. But if, as Mr. Ehrenhalt suggests, "sobriety" means resignation that nothing can be done, I couldn't disagree more.
 
ROBERT B. REICH
Secretary of Labor
Washington, Oct. 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: IF AS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); LAYOFFS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); DISMISSALS (69%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (54%); 

PERSON: EHRENHALT, ALAN; REICH, ROBERT B (SEC) BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



534 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Concern About Overvaluation Leads to Selloff of the Dollar

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar dropped sharply late yesterday, hurt by a growing view that its recent surge was exaggerated and an unconfirmed report indicating that Washington wants to reduce the currency's value.
The pullback in the dollar, particularly from its 33-month highs against the Japanese yen, caught some traders off guard. The selling intensified as the dollar fell through some technically important short-term levels. 
 Also contributing to the dollar's weakness was a further rebound in the German mark after its selloff last week on fears of political instability in Russia and optimism about Europe's planned single currency.
"The dollar is kind of swooning here," said Elliott Dix, assistant vice president for foreign exchange at the Signet Banking Corporation in Richmond. "People are selling off yen and going into the mark. They're taking the view that the dollar's overvalued because it's come up so far, so fast."
Some traders said the catalyst might have been a report by Market News Service Inc., a financial news agency, quoting unidentified sources as saying the Administration might begin to "talk down" the dollar if there is no improvement in the trade deficit with Japan, a sensitive political issue.
A lower dollar would make American goods and services more affordable in Japan, and several prominent American exporters have expressed concern over the dollar's rise above 110 yen. The Administration's official position has been that it wants a strong dollar.
In late New York trading, the dollar fell to 112.20 yen from 112.77 yen on Monday, its highest level since January 1994. The dollar dropped to 1.5245 marks from 1.5347. The British pound rose to $1.5975 from $1.5920, extending its rally against the dollar to levels unseen since August 1995.
The dollar had spent much of the day little changed and was marginally higher against the yen, partly on new evidence of economic weakness in Japan that bolstered the prognosis of continued low Japanese interest rates. Low rates depress the value of yen-denominated assets.
The Japanese Government said its index of leading economic indicators for August fell below the important threshold of 50 for the first time in five months. A reading above 50 indicates expansion and a reading below 50 signals a contraction. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); GERMANY (57%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); GERMANY (57%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); US DOLLAR (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GERMAN MARK (77%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); BRITISH POUND (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); INTEREST RATES (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



535 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: U.N.'s Urban Agenda

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your series on "Housing's Hidden Crisis" in New York City (Oct. 6-11) and editorial (Oct. 14) draw a moving portrait of a problem to which no country, rich or poor, is immune. More than a billion people in the world live in abject poverty, a large proportion of whom are homeless. 
 A photograph with your Oct. 6 article shows an apartment in Brooklyn where nine Mauritanians live in three rooms. Hanging on their wall is a photograph of the 180 kings, presidents, prime ministers, foreign ministers and other delegates who gathered a year ago to commemorate the United Nations' 50th anniversary.
I do not know what the immigrants think when they look at it, but they have every right to hold the leaders responsible for commitments they made to foster economic growth, social development, environmental protection and social justice. The Secretary General, too, is answerable to the inhabitants of the world's inner cities.
The General Assembly is considering how to carry out a plan adopted at the second Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) in June in Istanbul. Member states working with representatives of institutions of civil society shared "best practices" aimed at improving the urban environment. The partnerships made Habitat II the most innovative event in the recent cycle of United Nations conferences. We must sustain this momentum.
 
BOUTROS BOUTROS-GHALI
Secretary General, United Nations
New York, Oct. 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (52%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (52%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SURVEYS AND SERIES; EDITORIALS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); BEST PRACTICES (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); 

PERSON: BOUTROS-GHALI, BOUTROS (SEC GEN) BOUTROS BOUTROS-GHALI (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



536 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Health Costs Pose Problems For Millions, A Study Finds

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

 BODY:
A new study by researchers at the Harvard School of Public Health says that 31 percent of Americans were without health insurance or had difficulty getting or paying for medical care at some time in the last year.
The study, reported yesterday in The Journal of the American Medical Association, involved telephone interviews with 3,993 Americans selected at random. 
 "Problems in getting needed medical care affect about 17 million uninsured adults and 17 million insured adults in America," the study said. "Problems in paying medical bills are reported by 13 million uninsured and 17 million insured Americans."
The researchers, led by Karen Donelan and Prof. Robert J. Blendon at Harvard, found that 45 percent of the uninsured and 11 percent of those with health insurance said they needed care and could not get it at some time in the year before the survey.
"Seventy percent of the uninsured said that their symptoms were either 'very serious' or 'somewhat serious' at the time they could not get care," the authors said.
The researchers did not recommend specific policies to solve the problems they described, nor did they speculate on possible effects of a new Federal law intended to help people retain insurance coverage when they lose or change jobs.
Other research suggests that the number of uninsured Americans has increased in recent years as employers cut back coverage for employees and hire more part-time workers without health benefits.
In September, the American Hospital Association said that employer-sponsored health insurance coverage had steadily eroded in recent years, even though many employers were able to control health costs through greater use of health maintenance organizations and other forms of managed care.
Jack A. Meyer, president of the Economic and Social Research Institute, a nonprofit research organization in Washington, documented the changes in a recent survey examining 600 businesses of various sizes. "In the name of cost control," Mr. Meyer said, "some employers are dropping coverage altogether."
Other businesses continue to provide health insurance, but are reducing or eliminating their contributions toward the coverage of employees' family members, he said.
Four of 10 employers said they would prefer to pay just 50 percent of the cost of their workers' health insurance premiums, or less, Mr. Meyer found. "If this trend continues," he said, "health coverage could be priced out of range for more and more working families, especially lower-paid workers."
The Harvard study, financed with a grant from the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, said, "It is a commonly held assumption that the uninsured can get free or charity care if they need it."
But the researchers found that "only 37 percent of the uninsured who reported problems in paying medical bills said that they had received medical care for free or for a reduced charge in the previous year."
Ms. Donelan, the principal author of the study, said: "The sickest people surveyed are most likely to have problems getting the medical care they need. The vast majority of uninsured adults in poor health had difficulty getting care. This contradicts the conventional wisdom that truly sick people can always get care when they need it."
Over all, the study said, 37 million adults reported that they were uninsured at the time of the survey in 1995 or at some time in the prior year. "Fifty-three percent of uninsured adults reported problems getting or paying for health care in the previous year, with 17 million adults saying these problems had serious consequences" for their physical or mental health, family relationships, employment or household finances, the authors reported.
"Cost and the lack of employer-provided coverage are the principal reasons for being uninsured," the study said, adding that very few people are uninsured by choice.
"Fewer than 1 in 10 of the uninsured said that they did not want or need health insurance coverage or just did not think about getting it," the report said.
About 70 percent of the uninsured said they had been employed some of the time they were without health insurance. Many said they had worked for employers who provided coverage to at least some employees.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (58%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (58%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (58%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (58%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (91%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TRENDS (77%); CHARITIES (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); HOSPITALS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT JACK A MEYER (69%); KAREN DONELAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



537 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
Free Rupert Murdoch!

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH 

 BODY:
How do New Yorkers pick a dog in this fight?
In one corner is Rupert Murdoch, ranked this week by Entertainment Weekly as the most powerful man in the media industry, whining in court that a big, bad monopoly, Time Warner, is out to destroy his little, helpless Fox network by refusing to offer its new 24-hour news channel to Time Warner's New York cable subscribers. 
 Squaring off against him is CNN's Ted Turner, newly absorbed by merger into Time Warner, who has likened Mr. Murdoch to "the late Fuhrer" and threatened to "squish" him "like a bug." In a sworn deposition last Friday, Mr. Turner went still further, reiterating his Nazi analogies and accusing Mr. Murdoch of buying politicians from Margaret Thatcher to Newt Gingrich to Rudolph Giuliani.
Mayor Giuliani entered the picture by intruding in the dispute. He hoped to force Mr. Murdoch's news network onto Time Warner cable, ostensibly to save New York jobs, by trying to air it on a municipal channel. A Federal judge has at least temporarily scuttled this scheme, but not soon enough to stop a battle of the wives from breaking out. On Monday Jane Fonda, stopping by Barnes & Noble for a book signing, suggested that the Mayor was Fox's puppet because Mr. Murdoch is a G.O.P. campaign contributor and employs Mrs. Giuliani, Donna Hanover, at New York's Fox channel.
Already this squabble is surpassing any programming aired by either Time Warner or Fox. The New York Post, Mr. Murdoch's local print organ, has upped the ante by dropping CNN listings briefly from its TV grid and asking its readers to ponder whether "Terrible Ted" is either "veering dangerously toward insanity" or has merely "come off the medication he takes to fight his manic depression." In a display of reportorial enterprise, The Post also has taken to canvassing Jewish leaders who have "expressed outrage" over Mr. Turner's compulsive allusions to the late Fuhrer. It's only a matter of time, we can hope, before CNN rounds up its own Jewish leaders to condemn Mr. Murdoch for buying up rights to the "Hitler diaries" in the 1980's and then dismissing the subsequent revelation of their fraudulence with the memorable disclaimer, "After all, we are in the entertainment business."
But even as we pray for this delicious battle of titans to end up on Court TV -- which is itself co-owned by none other than Time Warner -- the question remains: Whom do we root for? The answer: No one.
Mr. Murdoch, who is being investigated in Britain for alleged anti-competitive practices by his satellite service and is the only mogul to have wrangled Federal permission to own both a TV station and newspaper in New York, is hardly the man to decry the monopolistic strategies of Time Warner or scream that his First Amendment rights are being violated. Nor can he argue that his news operation has been barred because of its conservative bent; Time Warner already carries the country's most right-wing TV news operation, Pat Robertson's.
As for Mr. Giuliani and his cronies in the Murdoch cause, Alfonse D'Amato and George Pataki, they would be preposterously out of line even if they were not Murdoch-backed politicians. Since when do we live in a country where government officials can dictate what news (or anything else) appears on TV?
As for Time Warner, I wish it would air several free channels that are M.I.A. in New York, including Fox's 24-hour news; Mr. Murdoch is indeed in the entertainment business, and it would be fun to spend 24 hours a day watching breaking Murdoch "news," like the fake Princess Di sex tapes trumpeted to the world as authentic by his London tabloid, The Sun. Though Time Warner pleads it doesn't have enough slots on its dial, why can't it just drop one of its countless, often redundant and always exorbitant pay or pay-per-view channels?
But that's not going to happen. In our new merger-consolidated media universe, where four equally ruthless and arrogant quasi-monopolies (Disney/ABC and Westinghouse/ CBS being the other two) now decree what all Americans watch and often read, Mr. Murdoch and Time Warner will sooner or later strike a deal as best suits their own economic interests -- no matter what anyone else, judges and politicians included, has to say about it. Whoever wins, it will still be the public that is squished like a bug.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC; FOX NEWS CHANNEL CABLE NEWS NETWORK LP (85%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER INC; FOX NEWS CHANNEL

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); NETWORK TELEVISION (72%); DEPOSITIONS (72%); TESTIMONY (72%); JUDGES (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%); BOOKSTORES (66%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (50%); 

PERSON: MURDOCH, RUPERT; TURNER, TED; RICH, FRANK KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (53%); FRANK RICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



538 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: G.M., Union Set Accord In Canada

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Oct. 22

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation and the Canadian Automobile Workers union tentatively agreed today on a new three-year labor contract, settling a 20-day strike that closed assembly plants and parts factories across Ontario and Quebec and, in a ripple effect, idled nearly 20,000 workers in the United States and Mexico.
The deal represents a compromise for each side, with the union allowing G.M. to sell two auto parts factories while demanding stiff payments to workers in exchange. Auto analysts said the deal would do fairly little to reduce the auto maker's steep labor costs, but that G.M. had sent a message to both the Canadian union and the United Automobile Workers union in Detroit that it would not give in easily. 
 "It sounds like they negotiated the best deal they could realistically hope for" at G.M., said Nicholas Lobaccaro, an auto analyst at Bear Stearns. "A lot of the things they were trying to negotiate were relatively unrealistic."
The Canadian union scheduled a ratification vote on Wednesday, and union officials predicted easy approval by the 26,000 striking G.M. workers. Basil E. Hargrove, the Canadian union's president, said that workers would begin returning to factories as soon as Wednesday evening, which should make it possible for G.M.'s factories in the United States to reopen by this weekend.
The deal here clears the way for G.M. to seek a separate labor contract with the U.A.W. in Detroit. G.M. and the U.A.W. resolved many of their less difficult issues before the Canadian strike began on Oct. 2, and a person close to the union said today that a deal might be reached by the end of this week.
The two sides are still discussing how many blue-collar jobs G.M. will keep in the United States over the next three years. The Ford Motor Company has already committed itself to keep employment at 95 percent of current levels or higher, with the proviso that lower levels will be allowed if the economy goes into a recession or if Ford discovers ways to make its factories more efficient. In exchange, the U.A.W. has agreed to let Ford pay permanently lower wages in any new auto parts businesses that it enters over the next several years.
The U.A.W. wants G.M. to agree to the same terms, although less productive factories may be omitted from the minimum employment requirements. The two sides recessed their talks in Detroit shortly before 5 P.M. today but plan to resume negotiations on Wednesday morning.
Even if G.M. settles soon with the U.A.W., its labor problems may not be over. It faces factory-level negotiations with militant local union leaders at several important assembly plants, including its huge mini-van factory in Doraville, Ga.
Today's deal allows G.M. to go ahead later this year with the sale of a car seat factory in Windsor, Ontario, and a bumpers and seat parts factory in Oshawa, Ontario. The auto maker guaranteed that for nine years the buyer would keep the worker pensions and health care benefits at the same levels G.M. maintained, and would maintain wages at G.M. levels for three years.
G.M. also agreed to offer these workers $42,500 to retire, or up to $80,000 to leave the company if they were not eligible for retirement. And the company promised an immediate bonus of $350 for each worker at all of its factories. All of these payments are in Canadian dollars. At the close of trading today, a Canadian dollar was worth 74 cents in American currency.
Following the example of Chrysler, which reached a contract with the Canadian union on Sept. 17, G.M. also promised 2 percent annual wage increases plus annual raises that cover most of the annual increases in consumer price inflation.
G.M. also agreed to stop requiring workers to work more than eight hours a day at assembly plants in Oshawa that make the Chevrolet Lumina and Buick Regal mid-size sedans. Dean W. Munger, the top labor negotiator for G.M. Canada, had said in an interview on Oct. 4 that it would be difficult to run assembly plants by asking for volunteers to put in overtime, but G.M. agreed to do this.
Ford and Chrysler already rely on voluntary overtime. And all three unionized auto makers are able to require workers to put in six eight-hour days each week here.
G.M. also agreed today to pay same-sex partner benefits for health care and bereavement, something that Chrysler had successfully resisted last month. But G.M. did manage to turn down union demands that the company freeze job descriptions and assembly line speeds. And while G.M. agreed to some limits on its ability to buy more parts from outside vendors, numerous exceptions were allowed, such as when a vendor offers new technology, Mr. Munger said.
While G.M. has refused to identify the buyer of the two auto parts factories because of a confidentiality pact, union officials have said the buyer is Joseph, Littlejohn
& Levy, a New York investment firm, which declined to comment. G.M. executives have said that a new owner will be able to make the factories more profitable by selling parts to rival auto makers that are reluctant to buy from G.M.
Local union officials were convinced that today's labor contract would be approved during the ratification vote on Wednesday.
"Oh yeah, we're not giving anything up, we're gaining," said Paul Goggan, an official at the militant union local in Oshawa. Local union officials unanimously approved the deal today, the first time in the Canadian union's 11-year history that the often fractious G.M. division had approved a contract with the auto maker unanimously.
Analysts put the cost of the current strike at $200 million to $400 million in foregone after-tax profits for G.M. By comparison, a 17-day strike last March at two G.M. brake factories in Dayton, Ohio, produced an after-tax loss of $900 million. Mr. Hargrove warned of a strike here last July, and G.M. responded by stockpiling parts so that this time, the temporary layoffs and foregone profits accumulated less quickly.
G.M. temporarily laid off an additional 1,560 workers today because of the Canadian strike, most of them in Mexico. The strike has now idled a total of 19,931 workers in the United States and Mexico, the company said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CANADIAN AUTOMOBILE WORKERS UNION MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CANADIAN AUTOMOBILE WORKERS UNION INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; MEXICO; CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STRIKES LABOR UNIONS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); STRIKES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (72%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



539 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: The Local Flavor Only, Please;
Westchester Hamlet Fears an Invasion by Starbucks

BYLINE: By MONTE WILLIAMS 

DATELINE: KATONAH, N.Y.

 BODY:
While other communities may gird themselves against the arrival of commercial behemoths like Home Depot or Price Club, here the enemy is relatively small, seemingly innocuous and even coveted in many corners of suburbia.
The adversary in Katonah is Starbucks, the java giant that acts like the Gap, spawning new stores faster than customers can request "a grande skim half-regular half-decaf cappuccino." 
 The Seattle-based coffee company, among the unlikeliest of establishments to evoke cries of "not in my backyard," has people fulminating over its plans to put a store in this pocket of the Westchester County town of Bedford, a leafy, prosperous community about 35 miles north of New York City.
An editorial in a weekly newspaper, The Record-Review, said Starbucks threatened the character of Katonah, a century-old planned community created for people who were transplanted to make room for the New York City reservoir system.
Residents have urged one another to express their displeasure to the Bedford Zoning Board of Appeals, which must grant Starbucks a variance before it can open here. The Bedford Planning Board turned down the company in early October because Starbucks does not fall neatly into any of Katonah's food-use categories. It was classified as a deli, but delis in Katonah do not have tables and chairs and Starbucks does. A vote on the variance is scheduled to take place in November.
At a meeting of the Katonah Chamber of Commerce in mid-October, Starbucks, which plans to move into a building under construction on Katonah Avenue, was the topic of conversation. "There were 40 people there, bankers and lawyers, and they all said the most important thing about this town are its family-owned businesses and diversity of stores," said Jonathan F. P. Rose, a developer who lives in nearby North Salem and works in Katonah.
"Starbucks meets tourists' desires over real needs," charged Mr. Rose, who also works as a consultant helping communities retain their character. "When that happens, you lose the essence of the place."
To understand Katonah's opposition to Starbucks, one must understand this hamlet of less than 5,000, which sees itself as special.
Katonah Avenue, the main artery in the commercial district, looks like Main Street, U.S.A., with a soupcon of artsy sophistication. There are no golden arches, no Gap stores, no Blockbuster's video emporiums. Mostly there are mom-and-pop operations -- delis, grocery stores, locally owned galleries, antiques shops and boutiques. The closest thing to chain stores are branches of NatWest, First Fidelity and the Bank of New York, and a Mobil station.
Residents -- a mix of commuters and writers, artists and photographers -- say they like the place just the way it is -- devoid of fast-food restaurants, which are forbidden, and devoid of national retailers, thanks, they say, to landlords who will not rent to them.
To hear residents tell it, Starbucks may be Pandora's box, opening the hamlet to commercial homogenization.
"The pharmacist here knows if the cough I had six months ago hasn't gotten better," said Lloyd Truffleman, a marketing and advertising executive. "If you let in Starbucks, who knows, you'll look around and the drugstore will be a CVS."
Starbucks was not stunned by Katonah's stance. It ran into similar resistance in a small Minneapolis community and was forced to reconsider plans to open in two San Francisco East Bay communities. But opposition nationwide has been negligible considering the company's growth. In 1991, Starbucks had 116 stores; today it has 970. The company plans for 2,000 by the year 2000.
"The demand for our coffee is so great that sometimes we open stores right across the street from one another," said Jeanne McKay, a company spokeswoman.
To Katonah residents, that is part of the problem. There's a Starbucks in Mount Kisco, a less prosperous village about five miles away. That's close enough, Nancy Zink, editor of The Record-Review, said.
"You don't need a Starbucks on every corner," agreed Teddy Wainwright, who operates the Baker's Cafe on Katonah Avenue. "We have merchants who give people specialized service, and we have a vibrant economy as a result. That's not true of every town."
Some merchants fear that the arrival of Starbucks and inevitably other chains would drive up real estate prices, resulting in the displacement of small businesses. "The chains would be the only ones able to pay the rent," said Laura Marks, owner of Fine Lines, a stationery store.
But Ms. McKay argued that Starbucks would most likely jolt the business community, including those shops that sell coffee, "by increasing awareness" of specialty coffees. "In Seattle, other coffee shops have moved right next door to us," she said.
Deborah Marsten, owner of a natural cosmetics store on Katonah Avenue, agreed that her business would probably pick up with people drawn to the area by Starbucks. "But it would ruin the quaintness of Katonah," she added.
Interestingly, when Starbucks was turned down by the Planning Board, the ruination of Katonah never came up. The issues in descending order of importance were how to classify Starbucks, water consumption and sewage, said Jeffrey Osterman, the town's director of planning.
Ms. Zink and others said they were first told by the Helmes Group, a local architectural and engineering firm, that the coffee company would not be a tenant of a 5,000-square-foot red brick building that the group is building. "There were rumors for months," Mr. Truffleman said. "I don't mean to sound like Bob Dole, but this is a character issue."
But they were dismayed when the matter came before the planning board and they learned that Starbucks was being considered as a tenant. Kevin Helmes, an associate of the Helmes Group, said the company planned to rent 1,500 square feet to Starbucks and the remaining space to two retailers, though he said that no contracts had been signed. Community opposition was not unanimous, he stressed.
"There are some that's for it and some that's against it," he said. "Some think it would bring in business."
Even if Starbucks wins a variance, its overall success here is not guaranteed, residents say. Katonah has a history of fidelity to locally owned stores. A year ago, when Gannett Suburban Newspapers placed vending boxes containing The Reporter-Dispatch outside delis that sold the paper, merchants and residents boycotted the newspaper until the boxes were moved away from the stores.
Moreover, Katonah has a history of exclusionary commercial laws.
In 1897, when New York City began building its reservoirs, the village of Whitlock Station was moved a mile south and renamed Katonah, according to Katharine Barrett Kelly, 88, a Katonah native and Bedford's historian. "People moved their houses piece by piece, although some were moved intact by horse and wagon."
The villagers designated Katonah Avenue the downtown business district. They carefully laid out spots for the bakery, drugstore, hardware store, general store, reading room (now the Katonah library) and churches. Many of these businesses are still in the same buildings.
There were prohibitions against slaughterhouses and the manufacturing of gun powder, soap, candles, starch, glue, ink and turpentine. They banned breweries and distilleries and establishments that tanned skins, Ms. Zink wrote in her editorial.
All true, the Bedford historian confirmed. But she said that she is not worried about Starbucks and that she does not think that a coffee shop would destroy Katonah's character. She points to the hamlet's recent history.
Twenty-five, 30 years ago, there was both an A.& P. and a Grand Union on Katonah Avenue, she said.
Still, she added that she would not patronize Starbucks if it were to come to town. "I have my two cups in the morning at home," she said, "and that's it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The new building, above, going up on Katonah Avenue, right, may have a Starbucks coffee shop as a tenant, if a zoning variance is approved. Some residents are not too pleased about that. "You don't need a Starbucks on every corner," said Teddy Wainwright, who operates the Baker's Cafe, above, in Katonah. (Photographs by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map of Westchester showing location of Katonah. (pg. B2)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%); BK (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STARBUCKS COFFEE CO STARBUCKS CORP (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: STARBUCKS COFFEE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: KATONAH (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ZONING ZONING (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); FAST FOOD (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); SUBURBS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); WRITERS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (63%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, MONTE

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



540 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Nicaragua's New President

 BODY:
Nicaragua has suffered through more than its share of abrupt ideological shifts in recent years. In a 1979 revolution it lurched from the right-wing dictatorial dynasty of the Somozas to the leftist Sandinista regime under Daniel Ortega. Then in 1990 the Sandinistas were displaced in the country's first democratic election by Violeta Chamorro, who wore white and made reconciliation her theme. In the latest turn, a man with authoritarian tendencies, Arnoldo Aleman, was elected President on Sunday.
Throughout it all, Nicaragua has been constant in its poverty. It is the second-poorest country in the Americas, ahead of only Haiti. Mr. Aleman hopes to attract jobs and investment through an unfettered free market. 
 Despite efforts during the campaign by Mr. Ortega, who was Mr. Aleman's chief rival for the office, to distance himself from past Sandinista policies, Mr. Aleman's television ads featuring shortages and censorship under the Sandinistas were effective. He was helped by the blessing of Nicaragua's Roman Catholic Cardinal, Miguel Obando y Bravo. Perhaps most important, Mr. Aleman convinced Nicaraguans that his friendliness with the United States and ties to wealthy Cubans and Nicaraguans in Miami would help attract foreign investment.
Mr. Aleman was an energetic manager and salesman as Mayor of Managua from 1990 to 1995. But his style bore worrisome touches of the caudillos who controlled the country for centuries. He would quiet his adversaries by offering them city jobs. Allegations of corruption were constant, but nothing was proved.
He has further polarized an exhausted country where, in rural areas, former Sandinistas and contras are still shooting at each other. Mrs. Chamorro, who could not succeed herself, gave the country a needed break from extremism. Her Government crafted pacts on the most divisive issues, including property the Sandinistas appropriated for themselves and for thousands of the poor before leaving office. She agreed to let all these people keep their property while compensating the old owners. Mr. Aleman has criticized her conciliatory policies and said he wants to undo these agreements.
Mr. Aleman, a coffee grower, counts as his advisers mainly the wealthy landowners and businessmen of the traditional ruling class. The Liberal Party he controls once belonged to the Somozas. But circumstances may force him to reach out to Sandinista supporters. He will probably not command a majority in the Legislative Assembly, and the Sandinistas retain the power to mobilize large demonstrations and protests. It would be useful for Mr. Aleman to temper his free-market, small-government orthodoxy with the concerns of the poor. He should remember that while foreign investment flourished under the Somozas, the vast majority of Nicaraguans did not.
For models, Mr. Aleman can look to the modernizing rightists in his neighborhood. Former President Alfredo Cristiani in El Salvador and President Alvaro Arzu in Guatemala have made peace with guerrillas and worked to reduce the domination of the rural landowners. Mr. Aleman, too, has the chance to make reforms that less conservative leaders might find impossible. To do so, he will have to follow his own advice to Mr. Ortega not to return Nicaragua to the bad old days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (97%); GUATEMALA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA; NICARAGUA (97%); GUATEMALA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); INWARD INVESTMENT (70%); JOB CREATION (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); COFFEE (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); CENSORSHIP (68%); RELIGION (67%); CORRUPTION (64%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (52%); 

PERSON: ALEMAN, ARNOLDO MIGUEL OBANDO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



541 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Adelphi Panel Estimates Severance Payout

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
Raising new questions about the compensation Adelphi University has given its president, the head of a state panel said yesterday that the president would get $2.7 million in severance, sabbatical and pension payments if he serves out his contract to the year 2001.
The calculation by J. Edward Meyer, chairman of a New York State Board of Regents panel reviewing Adelphi's management, came at a hearing in Manhattan. The panel is considering a petition from campus critics seeking the removal of Adelphi's trustees for failing to carry out their duties. 
 A central issue has been the compensation for Adelphi's president, Dr. Peter Diamandopoulos, which is among the highest of any university president in the nation. Critics say his compensation is excessive, since Adelphi is a small commuter school and its enrollment has dropped more than a third since he took over in 1985.
Besides his retirement benefits, Dr. Diamandopoulos also stands to make a $750,000 profit on a Manhattan condominium that Adelphi bought for his use, Mr. Meyer said. Adelphi spent $1.35 million in 1993 to buy, renovate and furnish the condominium, which is his to use in addition to the president's residence on the Adelphi campus in Garden City, L.I. The trustees later gave Dr. Diamandopoulos the right to buy the condominium for $905,000. Mr. Meyer projected its future value based on a 5 percent annual appreciation.
Mr. Meyer estimated that the retirement payments and condominium profits would total about $3.5 million. Abraham Krasnoff, an Adelphi trustee whom Mr. Meyer was questioning on the witness stand, did not dispute the figures.
Mr. Meyer asked Mr. Krasnoff, who serves on the board's executive compensation committee, whether the benefits "seem somewhat excessive."
Mr. Krasnoff said, "I don't think that's so bad."
As a former trustee at Long Island University, Mr. Krasnoff recalled that Chancellor Albert Bush-Brown received nearly $1 million in severance when he was forced out in 1985. Allowing for inflation, he said Adelphi's figure was maybe $1 million out of line.
It was while recruiting a new chief for L.I.U. that Mr. Krasnoff said he first met Dr. Diamandopoulos, who was his first choice for that job.
After the hearing, a lawyer for the trustees' critics said that Mr. Meyer underestimated Dr. Diamandopoulos's retirement benefits by omitting the interest and investment yield on his severance fund. The lawyer, Amy Gladstein, represents the Committee to Save Adelphi, a coalition of professors, former trustees, former administrators, alumni, students and parents. She also disputed Mr. Krasnoff's comparisons with Long Island University, which is much larger and has several campuses.
The hearings are now in recess until November, when five more days are scheduled. After the testimony ends, the lawyers for the university and the critics will file final briefs and the panel will make a recommendation to the Regents.
Mr. Krasnoff, whose testimony began on Monday, was called by Adelphi's lawyers to rebut accusations that the trustees, most of them recruited by Dr. Diamandopoulos, have been a rubber stamp.
"This is from my view the most involved board of any organization I've been involved in," said Mr. Krasnoff, who retired four years ago as chairman and president of the Pall Corporation, a $1 billion company that makes high-technology filters for fluids. He has served on the boards of many nonprofit institutions, including the business schools at Hofstra and New York universities.
Mr. Krasnoff confirmed earlier testimony that Adelphi's trustees never voted on the president's compensation, even though that is required by state law and the board's bylaws. Only the compensation committee knew the president's compensation, including the option to buy the condominium at a discount.
But Mr. Krasnoff said "that's typical" of other boards he has served on. In 40 years of serving on the board at North Shore University Hospital, he said, he never knew the chief executive's salary.
But he conceded "we were derelict" in not following proper procedure, and added, "It's going to be necessary to change an awful lot of habits at this university."
Mr. Krasnoff said he makes little distinction between corporate and nonprofit compensation. He said Dr. Diamandopoulos should be rewarded for a 'turnaround" in Adelphi's finances, generating budget surpluses, and for revising its curriculum.
But Adelphi "is suffering mightily under this onslaught" of controversy, he said. Asked why most of the deans' posts at the campus are vacant, he said: "It would be impossible to get a good dean under these circumstances. It would be madness to go out and recruit."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ADELPHI UNIVERSITY ADELPHI UNIVERSITY (97%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADELPHI UNIVERSITY ADELPHI UNIVERSITY (97%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; FRINGE BENEFITS; WAGES AND SALARIES SEVERANCE PAY (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LAWYERS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); PETITIONS (71%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE; MEYER, J EDWARD; DIAMANDOPOULOS, PETER ABRAHAM KRASNOFF (93%); PETER DIAMANDOPOULOS (90%); J EDWARD MEYER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



542 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Weak Dollar And Auctions Take a Toll

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The prices of Treasury securities ended substantially lower yesterday as concern over fresh supply weighed on the market for a second consecutive session.
The Treasury's sale of $18.28 billion in two-year notes produced encouraging results, but dealers said there was little follow-through buying after the auction. 
 Weakness in the dollar also took its toll on Treasury securities, which are expected to remain vulnerable until today's auction of five-year notes is out of the way.
"The market traded briefly better after the auction, but when there was no follow-through it came down once again," James Kenney, head of government trading at Prudential Securities, said. "It appears there was strong bidding for the issue but then people tried to sell everything else around it."
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 23/32, to 98 19/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.85 percent from 6.80 percent on Monday. The new 5.875 percent two-year note was yielding 5.91 percent at the close.
The Treasury's two-year note sale produced a high yield of 5.93 percent, and 56 percent of bids were awarded at the high rate.
This was down from the 6.08 percent registered at the last auction of two-year notes on Sept. 25.
A total of $47.89 billion of bids was received, $1.01 billion of which were noncompetitive bids. The bid-to-cover ratio, a measure of auction demand, came in at a firm 2.62.
After the auction results were released, Treasuries extended early losses, ultimately sinking to session lows as the dollar deteriorated in late trading.
"A lot of what has been propelling the markets is the sense that the dollar is getting stronger," David Horner, senior financial strategist at Merrill Lynch, said.
When the dollar showed signs of faltering, he added, the bond and stock markets followed suit.
The dollar fell against the Japanese yen and German mark yesterday, hurt in part by a growing view that its recent run-up was exaggerated. The dollar was also hurt by a report by Market News Service Inc., a financial news agency, quoting unidentified sources as saying the Clinton Administration might begin to "talk down" the dollar if there is no improvement in the trade deficit with Japan.
A weaker dollar makes American assets like Treasury securities less attractive to foreign investors.
Ample gains in weekly retail sales reports also weighed down Treasury prices, analysts said. Both the Mitsubishi Bank-Schroder Wertheim and LJR Research Service reports showed sizable gains for the period ended Saturday, suggesting that consumers might be bouncing back from an extremely weak third quarter.
Economists predicted further price erosion ahead as dealers set up for the Treasury's sale of $12.5 billion in five-year notes today. But once this supply is digested, they said, the market should perk up again.
"Once we chip through the five-year and get the supply out of the way we have a chance to do marginally better into the end of the week," Lee Youngdahl, money market economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, said.
In the municipals market, a deluge of new offerings totaling about $2.2 billion drew mixed results.
Among the large primary offerings, California sold $500 million of general obligation bonds. The bonds were priced to yield from 4.35 percent in 2000 to 5.75 percent in 2026.
Following are the results of the Treasury's auction of new two-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Yield . . . 5.930%
Low Yield . . . 5.890%
Median Yield . . . 5.920%
Accepted at low price . . . 56%
Total applied for . . . $47,890,477
Accepted . . . $18,283,077
Noncompetitive . . . $1,011,000
Interest set at . . . 5 7/8
 
The two-year notes mature Oct. 31, 1998.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (52%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (52%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); US DOLLAR (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (63%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



543 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: It's the Season of Ghosts, Goblins and Green

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: NAVASOTA, Tex., Oct. 21

 BODY:
There is plenty of candy. There are pumpkins painted or plain, real or pre-carved plastic. There are costume kits -- cats and bunnies, Bill Clinton and Bob Dole.
But at Brookshire Brothers, an ordinary supermarket in this small Texas town, there is much more for shoppers: orange and black streamers, Halloween twinkling lights, electric Halloween Candoliers, Cryptkeeper battery-operated doorbells, Pumpkin Patch Kid Carving Tools (also known as knives) and Oreo cookies with special orange-colored filling. 
 Across the store, on Aisle 12, there are the greeting cards: "For baby's first Halloween." "For a special godchild on Halloween." "Just thinking of you . . . and wishing you a wonderful Halloween."
"You've really got to watch yourself," said Susan Allen, a shopper trying to dissuade her 11-year-old son from spending $50 to rent a costume at a mall in nearby College Station. "If you don't, there might not be any money left over for Christmas."
Once upon a time, Halloween was a one-day event for children: trick-or-treat, and that was that. These days, however, it is more like a monthlong extravaganza, celebrated by children and adults alike and eagerly welcomed by merchandisers as one of the high points of their year.
In fact, according to a recent study by the National Retail Federation, Halloween has now officially shot past Mother's Day and Easter to generate more commercial revenue than any other day on the calendar except Christmas.
Just as it has grown in economic significance, the day has become a cultural touchstone, acclaimed as a kind of national Mardi Gras in some quarters but vilified in others.
Some church leaders, citing what they see as the day's glorification of pagan rites or of Satanism, have called for a boycott of Halloween.
Several school districts across the country have placed restrictions on costumes for classroom parties: no cowboys with guns (evokes violence), no hobos (offensive to the homeless) or no monsters (just too plain scary).
Still, as a mercantile event, Halloween has an undeniably huge impact. The retail federation, a trade group, conservatively estimates that Americans spend at least $2.5 billion on Halloween, a figure that does not include the value of promotional tie-ins, like Toyota's current Spooktacular sales event or the promise of "Goosebumps" plastic characters to consumers of Kid's Meals at Taco Bell.
On the pages of "Selling Halloween," an annual trade publication published in February, merchandisers talk about consumers who will seemingly spend any amount on Halloween house decorating "as long as it's creative and looks as good as the house next door." Or they breathe a sigh of relief that no one children's costume seems likely to dominate 1996 the way Power Rangers' costumes did so infamously in 1994, wreaking havoc for other creations in the costume market.
Scholars and salespeople all seem to have their own theories as to why the day -- not even, of course, a holiday by the conventional definition -- has become such a big deal. Some theorize that as Americans' fears of crime have run rampant, the day has increasingly offered a clever way for both young and old to confront the stress.
"It's the whole role reversal of power," said Arthur Goldiner, founder of Scarecrow Inc., a California company that advertises "custom fangs and movie-quality toothcaps." "Children are let out on the street to wander around after dark, soliciting adults and making threats."
Perhaps, but that does not necessarily explain why, in many ways, adults seem to have co-opted Halloween as their own, throwing theme parties without a child in sight.
Eighty percent of all Halloween costume rentals and 65 percent of sales are for adults, says the National Costumers Association, a trade group. Cleopatra is the number one costume for women -- "always has been" -- while "the Dracula thing" remains the biggest seller for men, a spokesman said.
Many experts note that in past generations, Americans' experience with death was different than it is today. Elderly parents were more likely to die in the bedroom next door than at the hospital, and infant mortality rates were higher, so death was perhaps less likely to be the object of cavalier or even humorous treatment in a national day of celebration. But death remains something that people struggle to come to terms with.
"We're all going to die sometime," said Jack Santino, author of a book on Halloween and another on the role of holidays in American culture, who argues that Halloween constitutes a form of "deep play" in which people of all ages are given free rein to think about things like death, pain and evil.
"At Halloween, some of our deepest fears are brought out from under the bed and confronted, but kind of in a playful way," added Dr. Santino, a professor of popular culture at Bowling Green State University in Ohio. "The fact that people enjoy it doesn't mean it's not an important thing."
Another line of reasoning is that Halloween, despite its religious origins, is now viewed as a kind of secular festival that families with spouses of different religious origins can celebrate without some of the tensions that can arise during, say, the Christmas-Hanukkah-Kwanzaa season.
Still, perhaps the simplest and most common explanation for the Halloween bonanza is that it stems from the tendency of the baby-boom generation to indulge their children, themselves or both. Robert Bly, the best-selling author, argues in a recent book, "The Sibling Society" (Addison-Wesley), that Americans live in a state of perpetual adolescence. Could that explain the increased desire to play dress-up?
"Maybe it's the whole inner-child thing -- I don't know," said Pamela Rucker, a spokeswoman for the National Retail Federation. "Many adults do seem to feel this need, though -- 'if my kids can have a party, I can have a party.' "
To be sure, many people here in Navasota, a rural town of about 6,000 people where the local Jaycees advertise "The Best Little Horror House in Texas," say they are suffering from Halloween burnout. And the mention of the December holidays -- which, after all, are just around the corner of the calendar -- almost seems to bring a shudder.
"It's all getting to be too much," said Jackie Woods, clutching her son, 4-year-old Eldridge, and ticking off his -- and her -- Halloween party obligations this month. "Too many things going on."
Ms. Allen said she hoped she had persuaded her son that the $50 rental costume, which she described as "some kind of monster," was a waste of money. "I told him the thing looks like a Ninja turtle, and it's out of his age cycle," she said. "I said, 'Honey, I just don't think it's a good investment for a one-night gig.' "
But for many adults who say they loved Halloween as children and love it now, there are no apologies. "Halloween," said Randall Bridges, a 21-year-old security guard, "is the one day of the year I totally feel comfortable."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cheryl Andersen and her daughter, Jamie, picking out Halloween decorations at Sonny Acres, a store in the suburbs of Chicago. Halloween, which has grown in its appeal to adults as well as children, now produces more profits for retailers than any day except Christmas. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)(pg. A22); Cynthia Sanford and her 7-year-old son, Russell, browse among the Halloween costumes at a Target store in Houston. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PPL (NZX) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448130 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5641 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' WEAR STORES (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: PUMPKIN PATCH LTD (57%); TACO BELL CORP (51%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (54%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (54%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); TEXAS, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: HALLOWEEN; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CHRISTMAS; MOTHER'S DAY; EASTER; HOLIDAYS AND SPECIAL OCCASIONS; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING HALLOWEEN (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); RETAILERS (89%); EASTER SEASON (87%); CATS (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); FAST FOOD (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); BOYCOTTS (68%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



544 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Finish Lower on Technology Selloff

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Traders continued selling to secure profits on technology shares, pulling stocks lower yesterday, as Digital Equipment reported a bigger-than-expected loss and Microsoft's strong earnings failed to satisfy hopes for a blowout performance.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 29.07 points, to 6,061.80, having recovered somewhat from a 53-point loss during the last hour of trading. 
 Broader measures also fell, with the biggest losses coming in the technology-laden Nasdaq market.
Stocks were also pressured by a weak bond market, where interest rates rose as prices fell on concerns about inflation and a flood of new borrowing through Treasury securities auctioned by the Government this week.
After the close of Monday's trading, Microsoft reported that strong demand for its operating systems and office software produced another strong quarterly profit. The profit for the July-to-September period, Microsoft's first quarter, rose 23 percent, to $614 million, or 95 cents a share, exceeding most forecasts.
But as with I.B.M.'s profit report Monday morning, Microsoft's results failed to exceed expectations by as wide a margin as Intel did last week. Many leading technology shares had rallied sharply in advance of the earnings reporting period as investors used last month's indications of growing chip demand to bet on a strong quarter.
Investors were also disappointed by an unexpected loss of $66 million, or 48 cents a share, in Digital's first quarter.
Digital's shares plunged 5 3/8, to 29, or more than 15 percent, as the New York Stock Exchange's most active issue, while Microsoft shares slipped 1 1/2, to 132 1/2, in Nasdaq trading. And I.B.M.'s shares sank 3 1/8 yesterday, to 127, as the Dow industrial's biggest decliner.
Several analysts said it was natural to see investors take some profits after the market's record-setting run, but some found the situation worrisome.
"They sold I.B.M., they sold Microsoft and they decimated Digital," said Ralph Bloch, chief market analyst at Raymond James & Associates in St. Petersburg, Fla. "What does that tell you when a strong earnings report sees a stock selloff, and when you get a bad report they take the stock behind the shed and shoot it? This is not a healthy description of a stock market."
Bond prices worsened in the afternoon as the Government started this week's Treasury refunding, auctioning $18.28 billion in new two-year notes. The bond market will need to absorb an additional $12.5 billion in five-year notes today.
As bond prices fell yesterday, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond -- a key determinant of corporate and consumer borrowing costs -- rose to 6.85 percent from Monday's 6.80 percent.
Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 5-to-3 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume totaled 410.8 million shares, down from 414.6 million in the previous session.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 3.28 points, to 706.57, and the New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 1.70 points, to 376.22.
The Nasdaq composite index dropped 16.41, or 1.3 percent, to 1,220.00, led by big losses in Intel, down 2 1/4, to 105 1/2, and Sun Microsytems, down 3/16, to 59 1/8.
Several pharmaceutical companies reported earnings yesterday that were either in line with or exceeded expectations by many Wall Street analysts.
Bristol-Myers Squibb rose 2 3/4, to 106 7/8, and Eli Lilly gained 1/2, to 69 1/4. Warner-Lambert lost 7/8, to 65 1/4, and American Home Products slipped 1/2, to 65 7/8.
Ontrack Data International, a data recovery company, advanced 2 1/2, to 14 1/2, in its first day of trading as a public company.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); IBMC (BRU) (84%); IBM (NYSE) (84%); IBM (LSE) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (84%); INTEL CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); FLORIDA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); PERSONAL DEBT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



545 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Proposes Aid to Help Welfare Recipients Work

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 22

 BODY:
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman proposed legislation today to overhaul the state's welfare program by shifting about $150 million in spending to child care, transportation, job placement and other support services to help move welfare recipients into the workplace.
The money would come from a variety of sources, among them reducing county welfare administrative costs, tougher enforcement of child support laws and additional Federal aid, and would not mean increased state spending, senior Whitman administration officials said. 
 In keeping with the moderate Republican course she has set for her administration, Governor Whitman's legislative proposal would soften some of the harshest provisions in the new Federal welfare law. Her plan would continue cash benefits and Medicaid payments for legal immigrants, and the five-year lifetime limit on benefits would be extended for individuals who lose their job through no fault of their own.
Senior Whitman administration officials anticipate an additional $80 million under the new Federal welfare and child care block grants, which replace the old Federal welfare programs. In addition, state officials expect saving $20 million to $30 million by reducing administrative expenses at the county level and another $20 million to $30 million on increased child support enforcement efforts. State officials also anticipate the welfare caseload will continue to decline in the coming year, saving the state about $14 million next year.
The Whitman administration also proposes turning over some welfare administrative duties, now handled by the state's 567 cities and towns, to county governments, saving localities about $25 million, which state officials said could be used for property tax relief or other municipal services.
Under the proposal, called Work First New Jersey, Mrs. Whitman plans to double the state's commitment to child care over the next two years and provide welfare recipients with job training, job placement and transportation services. The plan would also let beneficiaries keep more of their outside income and guarantee subsidized child care and health care coverage, through the Medicaid program, up to two years after they have found work. There are about 110,000 families and 30,000 individuals who receive welfare benefits in New Jersey.
Governor Whitman's proposal avoids many of the strictest provisions backed in other states, like the 21-month time limit for welfare recipients that was put into effect earlier this year by Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut. Gov. George E. Pataki, who has submitted a state plan with little detail to the Federal Government, has not yet proposed his plan to the State Legislature in New York. Earlier this year, Mr. Pataki proposed reducing cash benefits for welfare recipients and imposing stricter time limits for childless adults.
"I know that there are some critics who believe that giving states the flexibility to design their own welfare system will encourage a race to the bottom that will leave our most vulnerable citizens out in the cold," Mrs. Whitman said at a news conference at the State House. " 'Work First New Jersey' proves the critics wrong. Our program strikes a fair balance between the responsibility of our able-bodied people to find work and our obligation to help them become self-sufficient."
But advocates for the poor expressed skepticism that the state would be able to generate enough jobs for the huge number of welfare recipients seeking employment in the coming five years. All but 20 percent of the adults in the state's welfare caseload will be required to meet work requirements. The only exceptions will be for elderly recipients, mentally and physically disabled individuals and parents taking care of disabled children, Whitman administration officials said.
"There are not enough jobs," said Kimberly Schevtchuk, a policy analyst for Mercer Street Friends, a social services agency in Trenton, which recently completed a study of job creation and unemployment patterns around the state. "Statewide, there would be three job seekers for every one job. There is considerable variation around the state with some counties having as many as 11 job seekers for every job."
Ms. Schevtchuk also expressed concern that Governor Whitman's proposal did not include additional state dollars for the support services to help welfare recipients achieve self-sufficiency. She also said that many of the support services that Mrs. Whitman outlined were not likely to be in place before the program goes into effect early next year.
"The clock will be ticking before many of these services are available," she said. "The child care slots are not there. The one-stop career centers are not there. And people are being asked to do this immediately and no additional state funds are being put in place for this task."
The Human Services Commissioner, William Waldman, said that the state expected to move about 34,000 welfare recipients into jobs within a year after the plan takes effect.
Although State Labor Department officials project 66,000 new jobs next year, job growth in New Jersey has slowed in the last year. According to John L. Wieting, regional administrator for the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, New Jersey created 30,000 new jobs in the last year, mostly in the service and retail industries.
In many ways, the Governor's plan is similar to the new Federal welfare law. In addition to requiring welfare recipients to move into the work force within two years, the Governor's proposal would also require unmarried teen-age mothers to continue their education and to live with their parents or under adult supervision. Welfare recipients would also be required to cooperate with child support enforcement efforts or risk losing benefits.
At the same time, there will be major changes for thousands of families and individuals who now depend on welfare.
While Governor Whitman has agreed to continue cash and Medicaid benefits to legal immigrants, there will be an end this year to food stamps and Supplemental Security Income benefits for legal immigrants. As a result, the state's caseload for childless adults is expected to swell, and New Jersey will be forced to pick up the cost because the Federal Government will no longer reimburse states for giving cash benefits to legal immigrants.
In addition, mothers with infants as young as 12 weeks will be required to find a job. Child care advocates worry that there are not enough child care slots for young infants. But mothers with children under age 6 who cannot find appropriate, affordable child care are exempt from the work requirement.
The Governor's proposal, outlined in four separate bills, is expected to be introduced in the Legislature later this week. And Mrs. Whitman said that she was hoping to win bipartisan support. Both Assembly Speaker Jack Collins and Senate President Donald T. DiFrancesco, who joined Mrs. Whitman at today's press conference, promised that the legislation would be voted on by the end of the year. State officials expect the program to be put into effect within 30 days after it is signed into law.
State Senator Wayne R. Bryant, a Democrat from Camden and a sponsor of the Governor's proposal, said that it built on bipartisan efforts to establish a "solid foundation of welfare reform in New Jersey."
Mr. Bryant said that he was particularly pleased that New Jersey's efforts to revamp the state welfare program would allow welfare recipients to meet work participation requirements if they are are enrolled in a work-study program.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF LEGISLATION (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAID (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); FAMILY LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CHILD CARE (78%); COUNTIES (77%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); TAX RELIEF (65%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%); PROPERTY TAX (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



546 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 92 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Less State School Aid Seen

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
When inflation and enrollment increases are taken into account, most school districts will experience a loss in state aid under the $4.2 billion school financing plan developed by the Whitman administration, an independent policy research group said yesterday. 
 The Center for Analysis of Public Issues, of Princeton, also said that the administration's core curriculum standards were too broad and that more specific educational initiatives are needed. The Legislature is to consider the administration's plan after the November elections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR ANALYSIS OF PUBLIC ISSUES

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR ANALYSIS OF PUBLIC ISSUES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CURRICULA (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); ELECTIONS (85%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (85%); CORE CURRICULUM (83%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (82%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



547 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Plea Is Renewed for Brazilian Devaluation

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Rudiger Dornbusch, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who is known for predicting the devaluation of the Mexican peso, said yesterday that Brazil's currency was seriously overvalued.
"Brazil has had a brutal appreciation in real terms without commensurate growth in productivity," Mr. Dornbusch told an audience at the Commercial Bank of New York. 
 He repeated recent pleas that the Brazilian currency, the real, be weakened before a crisis erupted that could cause investors to bail out of Brazilian securities.
Although generally comfortable worldwide growth and low interest rates provide a favorable environment, he said, Brazil could find itself facing a currency crisis in the event of an unexpected shock. And he added, "If you have cavities, go to the dentist or you'll have root canal during vacation."
Brazil's annual inflation rate has run at roughly 13 percent over the last year, compared with annual inflation of about 3 percent in the United States.
Mr. Dornbusch made his remarks on a day that Latin American debt prices fell significantly, spurred by dealer selling.
In his remarks, the M.I.T. economist listed Brazil's three major maladies as: 15 years without growth per capita in the gross domestic product, the lack of a balanced budget, and a need for administrative changes -- something now held up in the Brazilian Congress.
Mr. Dornbusch did not predict a major devaluation, saying that two more years of the current situation would be "difficult but not impossible, because in Brazil the impossible is routine."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (72%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS DEVALUATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INFLATION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUDGETS (73%); TRENDS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); BONDS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); 

PERSON: DORNBUSCH, RUDIGER (PROF) RUDIGER DORNBUSCH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



548 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE REPUBLICAN;
Dole Shows High Spirits Across Michigan

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: TROY, Mich., Oct. 22

 BODY:
A couple of times today, Bob Dole was suddenly electrified with enthusiasm, all in the spirit of insisting that he would win the election, even though the polls show him falling increasingly behind.
At an outdoor rally here in this Detroit suburb, the Republican Presidential nominee was reciting his plan to end frivolous lawsuits when he spotted a favorable poster and responded to an encouraging comment from someone in the crowd. 
 "I like it!" he exclaimed. "I like it, I like it. I like all these signs."
In an instant, the previously low-key candidate seemed inspired. "Here we go!" he chortled. "This is the kind of spirit that will win the election! Right out here! Right out there!" The crowd cheered.
"I never did meet President Dewey, did you? No!" he declared, referring to the former New York Governor who was expected to win the Presidency from Harry S. Truman in 1948. "I'm like Harry Truman. I'm from the Midwest, and I'm plain-spoken, and I'm going to win whether you like it or not!"
His suddenly spirited exhibition came as he wrapped up a two-day bus tour of Michigan before heading for a rally in Ohio, two states he needs if he is to beat President Clinton but where Mr. Clinton holds solid leads in the polls.
As Mr. Dole soldiers on here in the Midwest, he seems tireless and has generally remained chipper.
But his nine speeches over the last two days have been relatively subdued and free of the harsh, sustained attacks on Mr. Clinton's ethics that preoccupied Mr. Dole last week.
So his bursts of energy today stood out all the more. And while his speeches today featured a mea culpa about the financing of political campaigns, his audiences responded far more enthusiastically to his fighting spirit.
The former Kansas Senator entertained the crowd here with a spirited riff on his familiar theme that Mr. Clinton likes to please everyone.
He told the crowd that if there was "anything you ever wanted in your life, these next two weeks is the time to write the President." He continued: "In fact, if you just give me a note, I'll take it to him. I may want something myself. And I'll get it, these last few weeks."
To the laughter of the crowd, he went on to combine Mr. Clinton's eagerness to please with the current controversy over Democratic fund-raising techniques.
"You want to spend the night in the Lincoln Bedroom for, say, $100,000?" Mr. Dole asked. "We'll get it for you. Whatever you want, we'll do it. You want to visit Indonesia? We'll arrange a trip. You want to go to India to see some of Gandhi's relatives, who gave $300,000 and owe $10,000 in back taxes? We'll work it out for you."
The references to India and Indonesia were to sources of questionable Democratic Party contributions.
Mr. Dole began his day with his bus caravan in the town of Frankenmuth, in east-central Michigan. The town, founded in 1845 by German missionaries, prides itself on its German heritage.
It was there that Mr. Dole repeated his recent theme that foreigners should not be able to make financial contributions to American political campaigns.
He intended to raise questions about foreign contributions to President Clinton and the Democrats, but he acknowledged -- as a new commercial by the Clinton campaign asserts -- that the Republicans had also accepted foreign money.
"Both parties have been involved in this," he said. "Both parties have done things that shouldn't have been done."
His next stop was at the high school football field in Grand Blanc, a pocket of Republicanism in otherwise strongly Democratic Genesee County. The biggest employer is General Motors, which has been enjoying something of a boom.
That was a tricky topic for Mr. Dole to navigate and still make a case for his economic plan. He initially painted a bleak picture nationally, citing stagnant wages, increased bankruptcies and higher credit-card debt. At the same time, he acknowledged a brighter Michigan economy, which he attributed to the policies of the state's Republican Governor, John Engler.
Mr. Dole also talked to the students about campaign finance changes, again including himself in his indictment of the system.
"All of us in politics have been guilty one way or another when it comes to campaign financing," he said.
"I don't mean violating the law," he hastened to add.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Continuing his campaign bus tour in the Midwest, Bob Dole talked with former Secretary of State George P. Shultz before a campaign rally in Grand Blanc, Mich., at the high school football field. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; PUBLIC OPINION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); ETHICS (69%); FUNDRAISING (62%); LITIGATION (57%); SUITS & CLAIMS (57%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; SEELYE, KATHARINE Q BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



549 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-14
 
BOSNIA ELECTIONS POSTPONED
Municipal elections for Bosnia were postponed for the second time, largely because of continued Serbian resistance, raising more questions about the future role of American forces in Bosnia. A1
 
A DIPLOMAT'S NIGHTMARE
The official given the task of trying to placate American trading partners about the law punishing certain foreign companies doing business in Cuba has found himself facing anger wherever he goes. A1
 
TURNAROUND IN MIDEAST TALKS
The American mediator to the Mideast talks, after announcing he was leaving, made a decision to stay after learning that progress had been made on the issue of Israeli troops in Hebron. A10
 
Tight Israeli security angered the visiting French President. A10
 
NICARAGUAN PROMISES CHANGE
The man who won Nicaragua's presidential election -- who has devoted his life to business and has been contemptuous of politics -- promises to wipe out the Sandinista past and to build the economy. A3
 
BACKING OFF FROM AFGHAN GROUP
The United States is inching away from its initial moves toward the Islamic group that has taken power in the Afghan capital, because of the fluid military situation and its stance on rights. A14
 
AN OFFER ITALY CAN'T BELIEVE
Now that the Mafia has started to spill the beans, the authorities do not know how to find the truth in an ocean of testimony, also spotlighting the failure of the country's witness program. A8
 
JAPANESE TRADER ARRESTED
The former copper trader accused by Sumitomo Corporation of racking up $2.6 billion in losses was the first person arrested in investigations into manipulation of the world copper market. D1
 
A Cambodian leader met with a former Khmer Rouge leader. A12
 
Bridgwater Journal: Mad cow disease and its market malaise. A4
 
National A16-23
 
WARNING SOLDIERS OF EXPOSURE
The Pentagon announced that it would notify 20,000 gulf war veterans that they may have been exposed to nerve gas. A1
 
G.O.P. LOOKING TO MAINTAIN LEAD
Republican leaders are urging their Congressional candidates to cut loose from Bob Dole and work on maintaining a majority, advice the dovetails with a poll showing Democrats holding an advantage. A1
 
CLINTON SKIPS PARTISANSHIP
As much as he wants his party to recapture the Senate and House, the President is avoiding partisanship in Congressional races. A1
 
Mr. Clinton called for NATO to extend its membership. A20
 
In Michigan, Bob Dole expressed rare enthusiasm. A21
 
Mr. Dole has a plan to index capital gains to inflation. A21
 
The Sierra Club pushed the environment as a campaign issue. A21
 
A negative Senate campaign in Minnesota may boomerang. A21
 
GHOSTS, GOBLINS AND GREEN
Halloween has now officially shot past Mother's Day and Easter to generate more commercial revenue than any other day on the calendar except Christmas. A1
 
FIRES RAGE IN CALIFORNIA
California firefighters battled a half-dozen major blazes that seared a total of more than 35,000 acres in the most destructive fires the state has seen in three years. A16
 
FUROR OVER ANTI-ABORTION AD
Viewers have bombarding two Chicago television stations with complaints about a graphic anti-abortion advertisement. A16
 
TROUBLE WITH HEALTH CARE
A study said 31 percent of Americans were without health insurance or had difficulty getting or paying for medical care. A18
 
GUILTY PLEA IN RUBY RIDGE
A senior F.B.I. official agreed to plead guilty to obstruction of justice for destroying a review of a deadly 1992 standoff in Idaho. A19
 
NORTHEAST HIT BY FLOODS
 
Three days of torrential rains across New England brought widespread flooding, stranding dozens of people in shelters. A22
 
Blacks were urged to mount a campaign against AIDS. A16
 
In tests, nicotine inhibited a plaque found in Alzheimer's patients. A19
 
Metro Report B1-8
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
New York rock clubs as endangered species. C13
 
Rival architects focus on London. C13
 
Running a New York rock club can be difficult. C13
 
Early music's encore. C13
 
Sports B13-19
 
Baseball: Yankees beat the Braves in Game 3. B13
 
Columns: Vecsey on the World Series B13
 
Hockey: Rangers anger Coach Colin Campbell. B19
 
The Living Section C1-9
 
 What it's like to be Oliver Sacks, neurologist and author. C1
 
Health C11
 
Obituaries B20
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A24-25
 
Editorials
 
Sorting out Medicare.
 
Nicaragua's new President.
 
A drug-treatment compromise.
 
Letters
 
Thomas L. Friedman: Help wanted -- bulldozers.
 
Frank Rich: Free Rupert Murdoch!
 
Anthony H. Cordesman: No jobs, no peace.
 
Randall Rothenberg: A million channels and nothing on.
 
Hendon Chubb: The little town that said no.
 
Chronicle B8
 
Crossword C18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 8053 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (66%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ISRAEL (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); CUBA (90%); FRANCE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUMITOMO CORP (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ISRAEL (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); CUBA (90%); FRANCE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ELECTIONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (74%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); ORGANIZED CRIME (71%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (70%); VETERANS (69%); WITNESSES (69%); DESERT STORM (69%); COPPER MARKETS (69%); TESTIMONY (69%); COPPER INDUSTRY (67%); HALLOWEEN (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); CHRISTMAS (60%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (52%); RELIGION (52%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (81%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



550 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE SENATE;
In Minnesota Race, Negative Ads Outnumber the Lakes

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, Oct. 20

 BODY:
On the screen are a faded Capitol on a gray background and a cartoon figure with the distorted face of Senator Paul Wellstone. With clown music playing, a cartoon arm pops out holding a sign reading, "LIBERAL."
The announcer in the 30-second television commercial says: "Since he's been in Washington, Paul Wellstone has cast one liberal vote after another. He voted against the balanced-budget amendment. He voted against the death penalty for murderers, terrorists and drug kingpins. And he's voted against workfare time and again. Paul Wellstone voted for higher taxes 48 times. He even voted to raise taxes on some Social Security benefits. And he's rated the No. 1 spender in the entire Senate. Paul Wellstone: embarrassingly liberal and out of touch." 
 Former Senator Rudy Boschwitz and the National Republican Senatorial Committee have been running advertisements like this incessantly for most of this year as Mr. Boschwitz tries to regain the Senate seat from Minnesota that he lost to Mr. Wellstone in 1990.
But the negative campaign may have boomeranged.
A statewide poll taken two weeks ago by The Minneapolis Star Tribune and WCCO-TV asked voters whether they had seen television advertisements about the Senate race and whether the commercials had generally made them more likely to vote for Mr. Boschwitz or Mr. Wellstone.
Of the 900 voters surveyed, 90 percent said they had watched advertisements about the race, which have been running round the clock on television. Although the number of Boschwitz advertisements this year have far exceeded those for Mr. Wellstone, 44 percent of the voters said the advertisements had made them more likely to vote for the Senator, and only 30 percent said Mr. Boschwitz.
Moreover, in the last month, when the advertising bombardment has been heaviest, voters' opinion of Mr. Wellstone rose and their opinion of Mr. Boschwitz fell, the poll showed.
The Boschwitz advertisements "have had a hard-edged and caustic tone that I would expect irritates people," said Steven Schier, chairman of the political science department at Carleton College in Northfield, Minn. "Negative ads have worked here in the past, but this may be overkill."
While Mr. Boschwitz has been running negative advertisements almost entirely, Mr. Wellstone has broadcast a mix. About half his commercials describe his position on issues. The other half usually begin with his stand on an issue, then take a shot at Mr. Boschwitz and then return to a positive statement about Mr. Wellstone.
The Wellstone seat is one that Democrats believe that they must hold if they are to stand any chance of regaining control of the Senate. Republicans now have a majority in the Senate of 53 to 47. Assuming President Clinton is re-elected, giving Vice President Al Gore the tie-breaking vote, Democrats must have a net gain of three seats to have a majority.
The Minnesota race is close. The same Star Tribune/WCCO poll showed Mr. Wellstone ahead by nine percentage points, but other recent polls have shown a closer race.
The two candidates could hardly be more different in their personalities and ideologies.
There is a touch of Fiorello La Guardia in Senator Wellstone, a hyperactive little man with a high-pitched voice who wants to kiss every baby he sees and shake every hand he can reach. A former college professor, he took his battered green school bus, his rolling campaign headquarters, to the University of Minnesota homecoming parade on Saturday and waved joyously from the rear platform.
Periodically, the 52-year-old Senator jumped off the bus to slap hands with students outside a fraternity house or to get thrown in the air on a hand-held trampoline. He craves attention from reporters and seems to gain nourishment from crowds.
Probably the most liberal Democrat in the Senate, he is the only incumbent running for re-election who voted against the Republican welfare bill that Mr. Clinton signed last month. He advocates universal, Government-run medical insurance and more spending on education and environmental protection.
Mr. Boschwitz -- 65, tall, thin and gray-haired -- is more reserved. He made a fortune in the plywood business and was known around the state before he was first elected to the Senate in 1978 because of his appearances in television commercials promoting his business. He served two terms in the Senate before being ousted by Mr. Wellstone, who won 50 percent of the vote to 48 percent.
Mr. Boschwitz went to the homecoming parade, too, on Saturday. But he spent less time than Mr. Wellstone, marched with more reserve when he was there and drew less notice. He clearly prefers campaigning in small groups and in predictable settings without reporters.
Ideologically, Mr. Boschwitz embraces most of the national Republican economic and social agenda, including deep tax cuts, fewer government regulations and limits on spending for social programs.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Wellstone said he expected the advertising attack against him to backfire. "People have become angry with how disrespectful it is," he said.
But Mr. Boschwitz said he had no reason to apologize. "Our ads have had a sense of purpose and a sense of humor, and I'm happy with them," he said. "We call it defining the opposition."
He also professed no concern about the latest poll showing him trailing.
"I was nine points ahead in the polls in 1990, and I lost," he said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SMN1 (FRA) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (95%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) SENATOR ENTERTAINMENT AG (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA; UNITED STATES (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (95%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING; ELECTIONS POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); BUDGETS (71%); CAPITAL CRIMES (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); TERRORISM (56%); MURDER (56%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BOSCHWITZ, RUDY; WELLSTONE, PAUL (SEN) BILL CLINTON (71%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



551 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Troubleshooter Discovers Big Trouble From Allies on Cuba

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 22

 BODY:
Two months ago, President Clinton handed a top Commerce Department official, Stuart E. Eizenstat, the knotty task of placating America's trading partners infuriated by a new law that punishes certain foreign companies doing business in Cuba. On his first diplomatic shuttle abroad, he was pelted with eggs in Mexico.
Things haven't gotten much better since. 
 Since President Clinton signed the law in March, it has provoked a flurry of denunciations and formal protests from some of America's closest allies that has included, as one State Department official put it, "the most undiplomatic language I've ever seen."
Mexico and Canada have passed retaliatory legislation. And the European Union is challenging the law in a new court under the World Trade Organization, although Mr. Clinton suspended its stiffest measures for six months, a period that coincides with the election campaign.
Now, despite Mr. Eizenstat's missions to 12 foreign capitals to meet with political and business leaders, the anger shows little sign of dissipating. And that has raised concerns that the law could provoke a trade war or at least undercut popular support in the United States for the trade agreement that created the World Trade Organization.
At the same time, Mr. Clinton has found himself in the home stretch of his re-election campaign exposed to criticism from Cuban-Americans and Republicans who say he has not acted forcefully enough to punish Cuba.
"If you want to send a signal, you got to send a signal," Bob Dole, the Republican challenger, declared in the first Presidential debate, accusing Mr. Clinton of doing too little even as the trading partners accused him of doing too much.
In the thick of it is Mr. Eizenstat, a veteran lawyer and Democratic adviser, who served as President Carter's chief domestic policy aide and then stayed on in Washington as a lobbyist during the 12 years of Republican control of the White House. He joined President Clinton's Administration in 1993 as representative to the European Union before becoming the Commerce Department's Undersecretary for International Trade earlier this year.
"It is not," Mr. Eizenstat said, "the easiest task I've ever had in government."
The law -- known as the Helms-Burton Act, after its Republican sponsors, Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina and Representative Dan Burton of Indiana -- seeks to punish foreign companies that use factories or other property in Cuba confiscated from Americans after the revolution that brought Fidel Castro to power in 1959.
Among other things, it requires the State Department to deny visas to executives of such companies and their families -- a punishment already imposed on a Mexican telecommunications company, Grupo Domos, and a Canadian mining concern, Sherritt International.
The law also gives American citizens and companies the right to sue the foreign companies that use confiscated property for restitution in American courts.
Mr. Clinton initially opposed the Helms-Burton Act, but he signed it in March amid the public furor that erupted when Cuban jets shot down two planes flown by Cuban-Americans off Cuba's coast last February. In July, he allowed the law to take effect, but suspended the provision allowing the lawsuits against foreign companies, at least until January.
It was, his aides said at the time, an effort to demonstrate resolve to Cuban-Americans in two important electoral states, Florida and New Jersey, while buying time to defuse the angry warnings of retaliation from abroad.
While the law's supporters argue that it does not seek to curb foreign trade with Cuba but simply targets those companies exploiting confiscated resources, its critics in Mexico, Canada and Europe have called it an "extraterritorial" effort by the United States to impose its foreign policy on others. On the eve of Mr. Eizenstat's visit to Mexico, President Ernesto Zedillo said it was "simply a violation of international law."
Given the anger from America's allies, Mr. Eizenstat's mission appears doomed.
Most of his work has involved bearing the brunt of the outrage over the bill -- not just from the allies, but from Cuban-American groups angered that the law's sharpest bite had been postponed. It was a measure of the domestic politics involved that Mr. Eizenstat's mission did not take him abroad, but rather to Florida and New Jersey.
Mr. Eizenstat acknowledged that he was unlikely to persuade the trading partners to accept the law, as well as a similar one that imposes sanctions on foreign companies that invest in Libya and Iran.
Instead, he said his strategy was to rally support for other steps that nations could take to increase pressure on Mr. Castro's Government. On his diplomatic trips, he has touted a series of proposals for nations to use their embassies to promote human rights, for companies that operate in Cuba to adopt "best business practices" like fair wages, and for nongovernment organizations to promote reforms in the Cuba's media, penal system and judiciary.
In an interview in his office at the Commerce Department, Mr. Eizenstat said these "modest steps" could speed a transition to democracy in Cuba and thus preclude the need for the Helms-Burton law. While he insisted that the President would not try to reverse the law, he suggested that America's trading partners could persuade him to suspend the punitive measures a second time.
He preferred not to characterize the strategy as a carrot or a stick. "The issue is whether they can, on their own, develop concrete and specific measures to which the President can point," he said.
Mr. Eizenstat plans to make a second tour of European capitals beginning this week and fully expects to hear more "unadulterated, undiluted anger." But he says the controversy has had an effect.
"The issue of democracy in Cuba," he said, "would not have been put on the radar screen if not for Helms-Burton."
For their part, the trading partners remain determined, warily hopeful that Mr. Clinton will somehow get around the law once Election Day passes and, as one diplomat put it, the "silly season" ends.
Another diplomat for one of America's closest allies said, "Everybody is sort of holding their breath and hoping that after these elections, people will bring this under control."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stuart E. Eizenstat was pelted by eggs during his trip to Mexico. (Amy Toensing for The New York Times)(pg. A14)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: S (TSX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (50%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (50%); SIC1061 FERROALLOY ORES, EXCEPT VANADIUM (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (95%); MEXICO (94%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION SHERRITT INTERNATIONAL CORP (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES; MEXICO; CANADA; UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (95%); MEXICO (94%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES ; CUBAN-AMERICANS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); LOBBYING (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); TRADE DISPUTES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; EIZENSTAT, STUART; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); FIDEL CASTRO (57%); DAN BURTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



552 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE ISSUES;
Dole Tax Plan Would Shelter Some Gains

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 22

 BODY:
Bob Dole has added a potentially far-reaching and controversial element to his economic package, promising that he would act immediately to exempt from capital gains taxes any inflation-induced increase in the value of land, homes, businesses, stocks or other assets.
Mr. Dole was acting at the behest of his running mate, Jack Kemp, who has argued that the move will spur economic growth by freeing trillions of dollars of wealth currently locked up in property that people do not want to sell because of the taxes they would have to pay. 
 For several weeks, Mr. Kemp has been talking about the campaign's commitment to such indexing of capital gains to inflation, and Mr. Dole gave it a public, if backhanded, endorsement on Monday.
"Jack's talked about indexing, which is fine with me, of capital gains," Mr. Dole said.
Indexing capital gains to inflation has long been criticized by the Clinton Administration as administratively impossible because it would require taxpayers to make extremely complicated calculations about how much of any increase in asset values derived from inflation. But the idea has been a favorite of conservative economists and the tax-cutting wing of the Republican Party for years.
The move's effect would be primarily felt by people who had held property for long periods or in times of high inflation. Mr. Kemp uses the example of an entrepreneur who paid $100,000 for a business in 1980 and sold it now for $160,000.
Mr. Kemp says that since the inflation during that period alone would account for the increase in the business's value, there would be no capital gains tax on the sale. Any gain above that attributed to inflation would still be taxed, although Mr. Dole has already promised to reduce the top capital gains tax rate by half, to 14 percent.
Mr. Kemp has been arguing that Mr. Dole could enact the change to indexing through an executive order. But it is unclear whether using an executive order to change tax policy is constitutional because the authority for originating tax law rests with the House. Indeed, this issue was debated among Republicans in 1992, when President Bush flirted briefly with a similar proposal.
Proponents say an executive order would change only the regulations defining the costs associated with capital gains, arguing that inflation falls into that category, and not the underlying tax laws. They also say that by using an executive order, Mr. Dole could bypass legislative wrangling over the issue and enact the policy from his first day in office.
Although the idea of indexing capital gains to inflation was not included in the economic plan Mr. Dole introduced in August, he provided Congressional tax analysts with additional details a few weeks later, including a provision for introducing indexing in 2001.
At the urging of Mr. Kemp and other proponents of the idea, including Theodore J. Forstmann, the Wall Street investor, and Wayne D. Angell, a former Federal Reserve governor, Mr. Dole agreed earlier this month to make a public commitment to indexing capital gains starting next year.
Advocates of the plan estimate that Americans are currently holding property with unrealized capital gains of $7 trillion due to inflation. Under current tax law, the tax liability on those assets would be $2 trillion, and Mr. Dole's plan would eliminate that liability altogether.
"It would address one of the biggest issues facing the country today," Mr. Kemp said in a telephone interview, asserting that indexing capital gains would end a "confiscatory and immoral" tax policy that left some taxpayers with less wealth than when they started.
Mr. Forstmann, a close associate of Mr. Kemp who was a member of a committee appointed by Republican Congressional leaders that studied the tax code last year, said relatively few of the assets were held by wealthy investors.
"Ordinary Americans, that mass of people out there, they have one or two main assets, the house and the business," Mr. Forstmann said. "They tend to have these things for a long time. If you had an asset for the last 20 or 30 years, there is a huge inflation component in its value. It looks good, but in terms of purchasing power, you may have less than when you bought the asset. To tax that, it's confiscation."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CAPITAL GAINS TAX TAXES & TAXATION (95%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; KEMP, JACK; STEVENSON, RICHARD W GEORGE W BUSH (54%); THEODORE FORSTMANN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



553 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Netscape Revenue Quadruples in Quarter

BYLINE: By PETER H. LEWIS 

 BODY:
Declaring it has made significant inroads into the corporate software market, the Netscape Communications Corporation said yesterday that revenue quadrupled in the third quarter as it reported earnings that were slightly higher than estimates.
The young company, best known for its Navigator software used by millions of people to browse the Internet's World Wide Web, earned $7.7 million, or 9 cents a share, up from $175,000 in the quarter a year earlier. Revenue rose 329 percent, to $23.3 million. 
 The earnings were a penny above Wall Street expectations, according to a survey of analysts by First Call.
Still, shares of Netscape were little changed in after-hours trading. The company announced its results after the market closed. Earlier, shares of Netscape, which went public in August 1995, closed down 25 cents, at $44.50, in Nasdaq trading.
Analysts said that Netscape's growth, while impressive, had to be measured against the size and power of its main competitor, the Microsoft Corporation. On Monday, Microsoft reported stronger-than-expected earnings growth for the latest quarter, and is on track toward $10 billion in revenue for the year.
"Although it scaled dramatically, Netscape is battling with a giant company that is also scaling very dramatically," said Stan Dolberg, an analyst with Forrester Research Inc. of Cambridge, Mass.
In comments yesterday, Netscape officials made it clear that they intended to tap into the rich revenue vein of the corporate intranet market. Based on the same technology that links millions of computers worldwide on the Internet, corporate intranets are private networks used to allow workers to exchange electronic mail and tap easily into company data bases.
James Barksdale, Netscape's president and chief executive, said about 80 percent of the company's revenue now comes from intranet products and services. Among its largest corporate customers are Chrysler, J. C. Penney, GE Information Services, Shell and Federal Express.
Last week, Netscape announced a series of new products for corporate intranets. They will compete not only against Microsoft's products, but also against offerings from the the Oracle Corporation and International Business Machines . Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, said last December that Netscape was his company's prime competitive target.
"It is definitely intimidating to have the dominant player in the software industry, with $7 billion in cash, coming after you, but we believe Netscape has a defensible position," said Michael L. Speiser, a research associate at the Deutsche Morgan Grenfell Technology Group in New York.
Mr. Speiser said that while the so-called Internet browser war between Netscape and Microsoft had received the most public attention, neither company made much money at it. Microsoft gives away its browser, Internet Explorer.
But the corporate intranet software market, analysts say, could swell to a $10-billion-a-year business by the year 2000.
"What we're seeing is the beginning of what is going to be an explosive marketplace, and Netscape seems to have a pretty significant share," said Daniel H. Rimer, an analyst with Hambrecht & Quist in San Francisco.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 24, 1996, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day yesterday about the third-quarter results of the Netscape Communications Corporation misstated the company's revenue. It was $100 million; the $23.3 million figure represented the revenue a year earlier.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Netscape Communications Corp. (NSCP,NNM)"

Qtr. to Sept. 30	1996	1995	%Ch	Rev.	100,016,000	23,308,000	+329	Net inc.	7,657,000	175,000	3,000	Sh. earn	.09	-	 	
 
All figures are restated for the merger of Netscape and Insoft Inc., which was accounted for as a pooling of interests.
Results are for the third quarter.
 
Yesterday's closing price: $44.50
Down 25 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (93%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (84%); FORR (NASDAQ) (67%); IBMC (BRU) (58%); IBM (NYSE) (58%); IBM (LSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (51%); DBK (FRA) (51%); DBK (BIT) (51%); DBETN (JSE) (51%); DBA (ASX) (51%); DB (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (93%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (93%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (67%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP AOL INC (93%); ORACLE CORP (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (84%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (67%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (58%); GXS INC (53%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); INTERNET BROWSERS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INTRANETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



554 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: An Endangered Species: Rock Clubs in New York

BYLINE: By NEIL STRAUSS 

 BODY:
New York City may be one of the cultural capitals of the world, but it's not always easy to present culture here. Rock clubs in particular find that, even as competitors like the Academy and Roseland are being converted to other uses, staying in business is a daily challenge.
"It is more difficult to get a club open and to keep it open once it's licensed than it ever used to be," said Robert Bookman of Pesetsky & Bookman, a law firm that represents more than 50 local clubs. "There is no welcome mat in New York City for night life establishments." 
 To start with, many owners say, rock clubs are simply not lucrative. Because bands receive 80 to 90 percent of the take from ticket purchases, clubs must look to drink sales as a chief source of revenue. This can be a problem since the average rock and pop concertgoer is under 21, and national alcohol consumption is on the wane. When Irving Plaza booked the punk band Green Day on St. Patrick's Day two years ago, it sold 1,000 tickets but distributed only 60 of the wristbands that go to those who are old enough to drink alcohol legally.
Then there are the city and state regulations: To operate a rock club, the owner may need as many as 56 permits, ranging from a public assembly license to a carbonic gas permit for the beer taps. And the requirements to obtain those permits are getting constantly tougher.
Two years ago, the State Liquor Authority granted community boards the right to review liquor license applications, and that has kept projected clubs like the Sunshine Theater on Houston Street from opening. With the passage of what's been nicknamed "the rowdy bar bill" last month, renewals of liquor licenses for existing clubs are now subject to community board review as well.
Many club owners applaud this measure, saying that nightspots need to maintain good relations with residential neighbors. On the other hand, they point out, one angry and influential insomniac can destroy a club.
As if all this weren't enough, it is increasingly difficult to find a building in Manhattan with the specifications for a rock club: a flat-floored, column-free space of over 15,000 square feet, several exits and an unobstructed view. Most of them are being sold as sites for high-rise buildings.
When a prospective owner does find one, it is extremely expensive. Regulations revised several years ago make it necessary for new clubs, in the few neighborhoods still zoned for them, to have 12 square feet a person in a concert hall and 4 square feet a person elsewhere for them to gather. Plans for one new concert facility in Manhattan last year were scrapped after construction was estimated at $2 million and the annual rent at over $600,000.
The result is that the rock clubs operating regularly in Manhattan are in spaces that predate the new regulations, like Tramps, Irving Plaza, Wetlands and, for the time being, Roseland. The owners of these clubs say they must scramble to stay afloat.
Irving Plaza, the club on 15th Street and Irving Place, where every rocker from Eric Clapton to Nine Inch Nails has performed in the last few years, is a prime example.
At the average Irving Plaza show, the ticket price is $15 (before the surcharges, which Ticketmaster keeps). If the club, which can hold 1,000 people, sells out, it takes in $15,000. Then it must pay a $5,000 guarantee to the band; $3,000 for advertising; $1,250 for house and technical staff; $850 for security guards (or more for an audience that likes to mosh); $600 for insurance; $620 for catering and meals for the bands; $500 for sound and lights; $250 for ticket-printing fees, and $100 in copyright fees. That leaves little to split, 20 percent for the club and 80 percent for the band.
The club is often in debt, its owners say, especially since 80 percent of its shows don't sell out. For Bob Mould's well-attended two-night stand this month, Irving Plaza lost $6,000.
"There's a misconception that clubs and club owners are rolling in dough, but a crisis expenditure like a new air-conditioning system or flooding repairs could make or break a club," said Andrew Rasiej, who owns Irving Plaza with Bill Brusca, a former manager at the Ritz rock club.
Because the owners of Irving Plaza also promote their own shows, they can make a little more money by charging $500 in rent per concert and taking 15 percent of overall expenses as a promoter's fee. But since the club is essentially paying itself, in order even to earn that money, the show must make a profit equal to that amount.
As for alcohol, sales average one $4 beer for each legal-age concertgoer. If 1,000 people attend a show and 500 are over 21, (a high estimate), the bar takes in $2,000. After buying the beer (about a dollar each), paying 8.25 percent sales tax, paying the bar staff and taking care of other expenses like liquor liability insurance and the soda system lease, Irving Plaza ends up with a $1,000 profit.
But there are still general operating costs to cover. With an average of 12 shows a month, Irving Plaza doesn't even cover its $15,000 a month rent with bar receipts, let alone thousands of dollars for gas, electricity, telephone, building insurance, maintenance and permit fees.
So how do Mr. Rasiej and Mr. Brusca make do?
They find little ways to scrape up extra revenue, like making a few hundred dollars from a coat check concession and another few hundred dollars as a 15 percent commission on merchandise that bands sell in the club. Record labels help by renting the bar for a party before or after a show. The club also has other kinds of events to make money, like swing dances on Sunday nights, trendy dance parties like Sugar Babies after concerts on Monday nights and private corporate parties. And sometimes a club is leased for video and film shoots.
All of this is still relatively small change, however. Almost every large, successful club has found more clever ways to stay in business. Irving Plaza made a deal with Metropolitan Entertainment, the concert promoter, which entitles the club to an equal share of the profits (or losses) if any rising band once booked at Irving Plaza goes on to play for Metropolitan in a larger concert hall in the area, even as big as Madison Square Garden.
Mr. Rasiej is also a part owner of Galaxy Restaurant and operates the 119 Bar, both on 15th Street and Irving Place. In addition, he started an Internet company called the Digital Club Network (with the Knitting Factory owner Michael Dorf) with investment by Apple Computer and MCI. Although Mr. Rasiej has used profits from these ventures to help Irving Plaza, he said this year the club might finally make money on its own.
Mr. Rasiej, Mr. Bookman, Mr. Dorf and other club owners and concert industry executives say clubs need a trade group to represent their interests. So Mr. Rasiej has helped start the New York Nightlife Association, an umbrella group for concert halls, dance clubs and bars, that intends to publicize the cultural and financial value of nightspots to the city and to work on improving community relations and reducing operating costs.
"Why do I go through this?" Mr. Rasiej asked. "Because I believe in the long-term viability of Irving Plaza and the music business in general."
 In addition, the per-ticket share of the promoter's fee was $1.98 (not $1.32), and the per-ticket share of the total expenses was $15.20 (not $14.54).

CORRECTION-DATE: October 26, 1996, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Wednesday with an article about the financial problems of rock clubs in New York City misstated the the total cost of promotion in some editions for a typical capacity concert at one club, Irving Plaza, in Manhattan. Other figures in the chart, based on the incorrect figure, were also in error.
The promoter's fee for the concert was $1,983 (not $1,317). Thus the club's total expenses for the concert were $15,203 (not $14,537), and the club showed a loss of $203 (not a profit of $92.60). Since no revenue remained (rather than $463), the band shared in no profit; it did not make $370.40.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The band Rusted Root performing at Irving Plaza this week, as seen from the sound technicans' area. (Rahav Segev for The New York Times) (pg. C13)
 
Table: "ADDING IT UP: Rock Club Economics" shows where the money goes from each $15 ticket at Irving Plaza, based on a capacity crowd of 1,000. (pg. C18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: IRVING PLAZA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS; ROCK MUSIC; MUSIC; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LICENSES; INDUSTRY PROFILES DRINKING PLACES (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (74%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (74%); TICKET SALES (73%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (73%); BEER & ALE (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (70%); ZONING (70%); 

PERSON: STRAUSS, NEIL CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996



555 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Singapore Doesn't Claim to Be Model for Anyone

 BODY:
To the Editor:
William Safire (column, Oct. 21) calls Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore "a tinpot tyrant with dynastic pretensions" in a discussion about China, Indonesia and fund-raising in the United States in which Singapore has no part. 
 At the World Economic Forum in Switzerland last February, Mr. Safire put the same accusation to Deputy Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, who reminded Mr. Safire that Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong had invited him to debate with him publicly and to educate Singaporeans on the evils of their Government but that Mr. Safire had declined the invitation.
Singapore is a multiparty parliamentary democracy. Nine general elections have been held in five-year intervals since 1959. All ministers are elected members of Parliament. Senior Minister Lee and the deputy prime minister have repeatedly been re-elected.
Singapore society is relatively drug-free, corruption-free and crime-free and, contrary to Mr. Safire, transparent and accountable. The 1995 World Competitiveness Report rated Singapore No. 1 in world competitiveness and in administration of justice in Asia. Singapore does not pretend to be a model for anyone.
 
CHAN HENG CHEE
Ambassador of Singapore
Washington, Oct. 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: SINGAPORE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (58%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (58%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE; SINGAPORE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SINGAPORE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CHEE, CHAN HENG (AMB); SAFIRE, WILLIAM; LEE KUAN YEW (MIN) LEE HSIEN LOONG (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



556 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Economic SceneGood news for Dole in a new study of his tax plan.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
SINCE August, Bob Dole has been trying to sell the virtues of "supply side" tax cuts to a skeptical public. Mr. Dole's call for "a new Independence Day for the American taxpayer," it seems, has effectively been parried by President Clinton's warning that the Dole economic plan "would blow a hole" in the deficit.
Missing from the debate is a nonpartisan assessment of the proposed tax cuts. Check that: missing until now. Coopers & Lybrand, the accounting and consulting firm, has just completed an independent technical analysis of the plan that uses a dynamic computer model to track the likely fiscal and economic consequences. And for the most part, it is good news for the Republicans. "The plan pretty much works the way Dole-Kemp says," concludes John Wilkins, a former number-cruncher for the Treasury who now directs Coopers & Lybrand's Tax Policy Economics Group. 
 The catch is it wouldn't work the way the more zealous supply-siders in Mr. Dole's camp would have you believe.
Supply-side economists have long contended that official estimates of the impact of tax cuts on Government revenues are biased because they neglect the impact of changing incentives to work and save. There is some truth to this. While a few behavioral effects are built into the Government's computerized tax models, they generally assume that interest rates, national output and employment are not affected.
The Coopers & Lybrand model aims to remedy that defect by linking the standard "micro" models that focus on supply and demand to the "macro" models that look at broad economic changes.
No model, of course, is better than its assumptions: garbage in, garbage out. But here, the magnitudes of "dynamic" assumptions so dear to the supply-siders are fairly conservative. Coopers & Lybrand does not claim, for example, that personal savings would rise if marginal tax rates were lowered -- indeed, it assumes the rate would fall if incentives to defer pay are reduced. Moreover, the model assumes that the Federal Reserve would maintain a monetary policy that did not permit unemployment to fall below the point now judged to generate wage inflation.
Nonetheless, the study finds that the $548 billion tax cut over six years would be partly offset by $124 billion in new revenues -- just $20 billion less than the Dole camp estimated.
A bit of the "reflow" is the indirect result of more rapid capital formation. A bit comes from the increased incentive to work, with 1.4 million new jobs being created above the 5.4 million jobs in the status quo scenario. But most of the revenue comes from the reduction in marginal tax rates that would dampen incentives to defer income or take it as fringe benefits.
If the Dole plan passes muster with the green eyeshade types, why has it been treated with disdain by so many mainstream economists? Perhaps because Mr. Dole's spinmeisters have been peddling two different stories.
One is the purely technical tale produced by Mr. Dole's centrist economic advisers. It asserts that the tax cuts are compatible with a balanced budget, provided Washington finds ways to cut spending sufficiently. The plan does not depend on a burst of enterprise and savings that raises economic growth rates. And that's the same lens through which Coopers & Lybrand views it, projecting a modest gain in gross domestic product by 2002 of about 1 percent above and beyond what the economy might achieve without tax cuts.
The other story is latter-day voodoo, an attempt by Republicans who have long been skeptical of Mr. Dole's traditional fiscal conservatism to bathe his candidacy in the uplifting light of supply-side rhetoric. They persuaded Mr. Dole to set a "goal" of 2 percent-plus growth in productivity -- twice the rate of the last two decades. And Mr. Kemp, his running mate, has repeatedly trumpeted the goal of a 5 percent after-inflation growth rate, double the current 2.5 percent trend. So economists' negative reaction has been driven by the apparent disconnect between experience and expectation.
In part, too, the critics have reacted negatively to the Dole contention that he can achieve substantial cuts in the growth of spending while still raising military outlays and not touching Social Security. That is no problem for the Coopers & Lybrand economists, who simply assumed that the cuts would be made. "It's a separate question whether the spending cuts are politically possible or desirable," Mr. Wilkins argues.
The paradox here is that, for all the hostile words from professionals on the desirability of across-the-board tax cuts, there is little disagreement that lower marginal tax rates are a legitimate goal of tax reform. Perhaps after the election when Washington gets back to the business of political compromise the point will seem obvious.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541219 OTHER ACCOUNTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (93%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (93%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: COOPERS & LYBRAND COOPERS & LYBRAND (93%); COOPERS & LYBRAND (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COOPERS & LYBRAND

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; MODELS (SIMULATIONS) TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ELECTIONS (72%); INFLATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; DOLE, BOB; WILKINS, JOHN BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



557 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Caribbean Nations Find Little Profit in Aiding U.S. Drug War

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BRIDGETOWN, Barbados

 BODY:
Hoping for American gratitude and assistance, the English-speaking countries of the eastern Caribbean have in recent years devoted larger portions of their meager budgets to fighting drug trafficking. But now, to the dismay of many in the region, the United States is responding with a policy of economic retrenchment.
Legislation to give Caribbean countries the same free-trade benefits as Mexico and Canada has been shelved in Congress, and a little-noticed provision of the minimum-wage bill that President Clinton signed in August eliminates Federal tax incentives to encourage low-interest loans to the region. Also, the two sides are in a bitter dispute over export quotas for bananas, the backbone of most economies in the area. 
 "What is the message being sent?" Keith Mitchell, the Prime Minister of Grenada, asked. "It is that our friends are abandoning us, that the rug is being pulled from under us, that we are being told we must sink or float on our own."
The scaling back of Washington's economic commitment comes with the region's re-emergence as a favorite transit zone for cocaine and heroin traffickers. Caribbean countries are largely cooperating with antidrug efforts, United States officials say, and their leaders are clearly rankled by what they see as a lack of American economic support.
"We've surrendered our sovereignty," James Mitchell, Prime Minister of St. Vincent and the Grenadines, said at a recent meeting of the Caribbean Americas Business Network in Miami. "We've given the U.S. all the cooperation in the world. What else do they want?"
American officials acknowledge some of the complaints, but they also say that eastern Caribbean nations have passed up opportunities through membership in regional lending institutions to ease their economic dependence on Washington.
For their part, leaders of the 14 nations making up the Caribbean Community, a regional economic association known as Caricom, have been urging the Clinton Administration to grant them trade parity with Mexico and Canada, the United States' partners in the North American Free Trade Agreement.
But Congress adjourned this month without taking action on the measure, which was intended to supplement the largely moribund Caribbean Basin Initiative created by the Reagan Administration.
In a report last month, the Council on Hemispheric Affairs, a Washington-based research group, attributed the delay in action to "partisan and special interest opposition" in Congress. The council said American legislators were wary of offending fruit lobbyists.
Caricom leaders say they need access to free trade to help compensate for a drop of nearly 90 percent in American economic assistance to the region over the last decade, from $225 million to $26 million. In August, a provision in the new minimum-wage law ended tax breaks for American corporations doing business in Puerto Rico.
At the same time, Washington is challenging the traditional system of trade preferences that allows many Caricom nations to export their products to European nations either duty free or at vastly reduced tariff rates. One such proposal, which Caribbean leaders say could cripple the region's banana industry, is now before the World Trade Organization.
"It seems shortsighted and baffling," said Frank Alleyne of the Institute for Social and Economic Research at the University of the West Indies. "What about the cost in social unrest? If they succeed, drug cultivation will increase, mark my word. Farmers must find another crop, and that crop is marijuana." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); MEXICO (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%); SAINT VINCENT & THE GRENADINES (79%); GRENADA (79%); BARBADOS (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS NETWORK INTERNATIONAL (54%); CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN AREA; UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); MEXICO (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%); SAINT VINCENT & THE GRENADINES (79%); GRENADA (79%); BARBADOS (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); LOBBYING (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); TAX LAW (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); TAX RELIEF (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); HEROIN (72%); COCAINE (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); EXPORT CONTROLS (69%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ROHTER, LARRY BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



558 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Slips vs. the Mark But Climbs Against the Yen

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell to the lowest level in a month against the rallying German mark yesterday, but climbed above 113 Japanese yen for the first time since January 1994.
Traders attributed the dollar's behavior largely to strength in the mark, which surged on new indications that Germany would not lower interest rates further and a surprise reduction of interest rates in Italy. The relative attractiveness of German rates raised demand for marks. 
 The dollar's strength against the yen resulted indirectly from a broad retreat by the Japanese currency, particularly against the mark, as investors in Japan continued to funnel money out of the country into higher-yielding opportunities abroad.
"The strength of the mark has been the primary focus of the day," said John McCarthy, foreign exchange manager at ING Capital Markets Inc. in New York.
In late New York trading, the dollar was at 1.5207 marks, down from 1.5245 Tuesday and the lowest level since Sept. 25. The dollar was at 112.93 yen, up from 112.20. Earlier in the trading day the dollar climbed as high as 113.15 yen, a level not seen for 33 months.
A growing sense that German interest rates are unlikely to fall were reinforced by two leading Bundesbank officials.
Otmar Issing, chief economist of Germany's central bank, said in a television interview that there was no need for further reductions. Johann Wilhelm Gaddum, member of the Bundesbank directorate, said the bank wanted to keep rates unchanged "as long as possible."
The mark derived further strength after the Bank of Italy cut its official discount rate by 0.75 percentage point to 7.75 percent effective Thursday. The bank said the reduction was justified by new signs of diminished inflation in Italy, falling below 3 percent for the first time since 1969.
Traders attributed the yen's weakness partly to further indications that interest rates in Japan are likely to remain at postwar lows for the forseeable future.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday: 1.2530 Swiss francs, unchanged; 5.1385 French francs, down from 5.1525; 1,527.50 Italian lire, up from 1,524.20; 1.3436 Canadian dollars, down from 1.3450. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (87%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; JAPAN; GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (87%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



559 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Wave of Strongmen Make West Africa Their Oyster

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, Oct. 23

 BODY:
When State Department planners sat down to work out an African itinerary for Secretary of State Warren Christopher's first trip to the continent, seeking to play up news of positive change in each of Africa's regions below the Sahara, West Africa presented a special problem.
If this region saw a wave of transitions toward democratic rule at the start of the decade, more recently it has become the stage of one setback after another as elected governments have been overthrown by soldiers while incumbents have liberally fiddled with the rules governing voting to insure that they win. 
 In the end, Mr. Christopher chose to visit Mali, widely considered to be one of only two unambiguously democratic countries in West Africa; the other is Benin.
But diplomats say the very narrowness of the choices for the itinerary underscored a major looming challenge to Western policy toward this region: the resurgence of military strongmen who seek to remake themselves into civilian leaders.
If the military coup has faded out of fashion in other parts of the continent, it is enjoying a strong resurgence in West Africa, where soldier-politicians all seem to be reading from the same tightly written script.
In the most recent example, in the tiny country of Gambia, a 31-year-old former captain, Yahya Jammeh, who seized power overthrowing an elected Government in 1994, won election to the presidency last month in a vote widely perceived as unfair.
After seizing power, Mr. Jammeh -- following the lead of several other West African countries led by soldier-politicians -- banned established political parties, jailed many of his prominent critics, carried out repeated attacks against the press and then called elections that gave little time for opponents to organize.
Predictably, major donors to Gambia, like the European Union and the United States, denounced the repression and the country's electoral process. But having seen others in the region get away with much the same thing, Mr. Jammeh apparently decided the risks involved in his efforts to stay in power were worth it.
"Each time there is a coup like this, followed by an election, we have grown accustomed to a standard reaction from the West," said a senior African diplomat, who insisted on not being identified. "They denounce the thing and cut off aid at first, but before long we are back to business as usual. We've already seen that in Niger, Chad and now in Gambia this year, and there are certainly more to come."
With Mr. Jammeh's swearing-in last week, 11 of 17 countries in the region are led by military men turned civilian presidents.
In Nigeria, the continent's most populous country, the signs are multiplying that President Sani Abacha, a general who seized power in a coup in November 1993 after the military canceled the most democratic election in that country's history, is planning to seek election in a bid for international legitimacy that critics say would almost certainly not involve a fair competition.
Supporters celebrating General Abacha's 53d birthday recently toasted the publication of a new book on the philosophy of "Abachaism." And in recent weeks the Nigerian press has been filled with the statements from Nigerians promoting the idea of the general's candidacy in elections promised for 1998.
Western diplomats say that any bid for electoral office by General Abacha would probably follow the same pattern as Mr. Jammeh's.
And if the West, the principal source of the lending and tourism that support the Gambian economy, cannot oblige that tiny country to apply even minimal rules of political fair play, this reasoning goes, what can possibly get in the way of giant Nigeria, an oil-producing country of more than 100 million people? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (99%); WESTERN AFRICA (96%); GAMBIA (94%); NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); NIGER (79%); MALI (79%); CHAD (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; NIGERIA; GAMBIA; AFRICA (99%); WESTERN AFRICA (96%); GAMBIA (94%); NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); NIGER (79%); MALI (79%); CHAD (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); POLITICS (90%); COUPS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTION LAW (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: YAHYA JAMMEH (90%); SANI ABACHA (65%); WARREN CHRISTOPHER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



560 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Rise as Sale Of Notes Ends

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Treasury prices rose yesterday for this first time this week, after the market absorbed another large issue of new supply.
Relieved that the Treasury's sale of $12.5 billion in five-year notes was out of the way, prices staged a modest rally in the afternoon and moved into positive territory after two consecutive days of losses. 
 Talk of Federal Reserve buying in the five-year sector was also seen bolstering prices in the aftermath of the auction.
"Supply is out of the way, the auction came pretty much right where it was expected to come and we saw some relief trade," said Michael McClure, head of government bond trading at Zions First National Bank Capital Markets. "People are going back to their bullish ways."
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 1/32, to 98 29/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, slipped to 6.83 percent from 6.85 percent on Tuesday.
Without any economic data to focus on, the market relied on supply again yesterday for much of its direction. Market analysts characterized the Treasury's five-year note sale as largely in line with expectations.
They noted, however, that the market appeared better prepared for the supply than it had been on Tuesday, when the Treasury's two-year note sale gave way to widespread selling.
The Treasury sold the five-year notes at a high yield of 6.325 percent, awarding 55 percent of the bids at the high rate. Of the $28.181 billion in bids received, $326 million were noncompetitive offers.
The bid-to-cover ratio, a gauge of demand for the issue, came in at a slightly soft 2.33.
"It was really plain vanilla," said John Canavan, Treasury market analyst at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates Inc. "There was nothing particularly exciting about it one way or the other."
Talk that the Federal Reserve was buying five-year notes on behalf of foreign central banks helped reinforce the price gains, analysts said.
Dealers could not confirm the Fed purchases, but said the behavior of the market and the widespread nature of the reports suggested the central bank might have been active.
With supply out of the way, the bond market is now expected to begin looking ahead to tomorrow's report on September durable goods orders and next week's busy calendar, which includes key October employment figures.
Economists said the market was hoping that the coming numbers would be supportive, but hesitant about betting on further price gains.
"There are still a lot more hurdles ahead," said Kim Rupert, senior economist at MMS International. "Most people are still expecting friendly numbers, but no one is making a strong play yet."
In the corporate market, cable and media debt dominated trading, but the sector was marred by further widening in TCI Communications paper, traders said.
The slide in TCI debt has slowed, but issues still widened in the range of 5 to 10 basis points into the close. TCI debt has widened by more than 40 basis points since the Standard & Poor's rating agency said late Friday that it might downgrade the credit to junk status. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Elsewhere, Viacom Inc. debt was softer for the second consecutive session after news that it might pay MCA $1.45 billion and exchange its 50 percent interest in the Sci Fi Channel for complete control of the USA Network.
Viacom debt due in 2005 closed at 190 basis points bid, 185 basis points offered. Spreads firmed early after an S.& P. ratings affirmation late on Tuesday, one trader said, but the paper soon retreated to wider levels.
Following are the results of the Treasury's auction of new five-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Price . . . 99.683
High Yield . . . 6.325%
Low Yield . . . 6.240%
Median Yield . . . 6.300%
Accepted at low price . . . 55%
Total applied for . . . $29,180,705
Accepted . . . $12,500,705
Noncompetitive . . . $326,000
Interest set at . . . 6 1/4%
 
The five-year notes mature Oct. 31, 2001.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since July. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TCOMA (NASDAQ) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT ZIONS FIRST NATIONAL BANK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



561 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Drawing Lines in the Shore's Sand;
Plan to Let Nature Rule Worries Investors and Homeowners

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY 

DATELINE: HARVEY CEDARS, N.J.

 BODY:
Picture this scenario of life along the New Jersey coast in 50 years: The Atlantic Ocean is about eight inches higher than it is now and several yards farther inland. The storms that batter the shoreline are far more destructive. And houses now on the most vulnerable parts of the coast are flooded.
That is the scenario that coastal scientists at Rutgers University projected in a report for the state, paid for with $200,000 in Federal money. 
 The scientists draw what some call a radical conclusion, at least for New Jersey: let nature take its course.
The report, which was released this fall, calls for a major shift in policy, from defending and rebuilding coastal beaches and property in high-hazard areas to removing storm-damaged buildings in those places and letting nature reclaim the beach. Although aligned with Federal thinking prompted by the devastating Mississippi River flooding in 1993, that philosophy has been considered heresy along the shore.
The study has touched off angry resolutions in town halls and in the State Legislature. Businessmen and politicians shudder at the thought of eroded beaches exposing billions of dollars in ocean-front investment -- from the gaudiest Atlantic City casinos to the tiniest beach bungalows -- to the wrath of the sea. They denounce the draft as suicidal strategy: abandonment of the shore and a "blueprint for dismantling the great heritage" of shore resorts.
Environmentalists say that with the sea level rising, the impact of coastal storms will worsen by 2050, and oft-damaged buildings and roads should be sacrificed to nature both to improve personal safety and to reduce costs.
In the uproar, the state's Department of Environmental Protection has for now scrapped public meetings on the draft report. It stresses that the draft is only a possible ingredient in their revision of the state's 1981 coastal policy.
To environmentalists, the agency seems to be backpedaling. The findings in the report, by Norbert Psuty, director of the Institute of Marine and Coastal Sciences at Rutgers University, are not too far afield of goals the department outlined months ago. They include encouraging shore towns not to zone vulnerable areas for development and to consider carefully whether to rebuild structures destroyed by storms.
Since the 1993 Mississippi floods, the Federal Government has promoted the idea of abandoning property. In an attempt to save millions in future Federal flood insurance payouts and disaster relief costs, the Federal Emergency Management Agency has spent $192 million, primarily in the Midwest, to buy thousands of homes and build new ones for storm victims on higher, safer ground, among other measures.
Since 1978, 75 percent of the Federal flood insurance paid in New Jersey, $268 million of $360 million, has gone to property owners in the state's four coastal counties -- Monmouth, Ocean, Atlantic and Cape May -- most in towns along the Atlantic or on major bays. In Monmouth County alone, the Army Corps of Engineers is restoring 21 miles of beach at a cost of $226 million.
A year ago, New Jersey created a buyout program like the Federal Government's. With $30 million in voter-approved bonds, the program, Blue Acres, is intended to buy flood-prone property or storm-damaged homes along the coast or in the flood plains of the Passaic River and its tributaries in three northern counties. The land would then be dedicated to conservation or recreation.
Although the start-up money is modest and there have yet to be any transactions, the program is significant because it is the first buyout plan the state's environmental department has endorsed.
Dr. Psuty's report also urges buying out property owners. His report's basic premise is that the sea level is rising about 16 inches a century. He contends that broadening beaches by pumping sand from the ocean bottom and rebuilding dunes will not provide adequate protection against intense storms in high-hazard areas.
Because of the rising sea level, he said, storms like the worst ones of the last half century would produce surges at least a foot higher by 2050. "Water will reach into places it never reached before," he said.
He proposes that planning in high-hazard areas include buying damaged property, moving residents out, banning new development, relocating roads, sewer lines and other components of the infrastructure, and ending beach-rebuilding projects in areas with high rates of erosion.
Although the report does not pinpoint any high-hazard areas, Dr. Psuty noted that the Corps of Engineers found in 1971 that 82 percent of the 127-mile shoreline was experiencing critical erosion, 9 percent was eroding but not critically, and 9 percent was stable. Monmouth and Ocean counties have been particularly prone to storm damage.
North Carolina has already adopted the kinds of regulations Dr. Psuty is proposing for New Jersey, including a 10-year-old regulation limiting reconstruction of storm-damaged coastal homes. Under the regulation, up to 800 beach houses heavily damaged by Hurricane Fran on Sept. 5 may not be able to be rebuilt.
The Jersey Shore Partnership, which includes local government officials, banks and utility companies, is leading the protest against Dr. Psuty. It has condemned the draft as "sky is falling" philosophy and urges rejecting the idea of not rebuilding eroded beaches.
"We just can't walk away," said S. Thomas Gagliano, a former state senator who helped form the partnership and now heads it. "And we can't send out alarms to banks and insurance and investment companies that the shore is a high-hazard area and don't come here. We don't want to frighten people or infringe on property rights or make beachgoers feel unsafe. Rutgers's attitude is we must retreat and having beachfront property is a liability and you ought to move away."
Mr. Gagliano said that the report ignored quality-of-life issues and overemphasized the rising sea level. "I don't know if that's really important to generations of people," he said. "It's only inches in a century."
The partnership, he said, endorses the Blue Acres program, and agrees that owners of repeatedly damaged buildings should have the option of selling to the state. But the partnership, he said, wants individual properties pinpointed for buyouts, while the report sends out signals about a broader "attitude against rebuilding."
In Harvey Cedars, a sliver of a resort on Long Beach Island, squeezed between the ocean and Barnegat Bay, some owners say they are not averse to selling storm-damaged homes if they can recover their investments. But Fred Rice, part owner of the Harvey Cedars Marina, said the Rutgers report was a "little late," given the billions invested in the shore decades ago.
The value of property here far exceeds that in the Mississippi flood plains, with many tiny lots starting at $400,000, Mr. Rice said. "How are they going to pay market value for that?" he said.
Dr. Psuty called talk about "retreat" an overreaction. "I never used the word," he said. He said his critics were thinking only of economics, development and property taxes, and ignoring reality.
"The hazards are going to increase," he said. "I don't know how you can turn your back on that. You have to come up with alternatives."
One shore community, Belmar, has done just that. After repeated poundings by hurricanes over the years, the town has responded by moving public structures out of harm's way: the southern quarter-mile of its frequently damaged 1.25-mile boardwalk can be dismantled as storms approach, and newly built bathhouses can be unhooked from sewer lines and wheeled away.
Mayor Kenneth Pringle of Belmar has parted company with some of his counterparts. He said that nonshore taxpayers were wearying of Federal spending to rebuild beaches and provide disaster relief for owners of damaged shore property.
"If someone wants to throw their money away, that's their prerogative," Mayor Pringle said. "But I don't know if we should subsidize expenditures close to the shore and automatically bail them out if they make a bad bet."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A quarter-mile section of the boardwalk in Belmar, N.J., was designed so that it can be removed and protected when a storm nears; A report by scientists at Rutgers University suggests that New Jersey should discourage development on vulnerable beachfront areas like this one in Harvey Cedars. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) (pg. B1); Norbert Psuty recently completed a study of the Jersey Shore. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times) (pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BEACHES; SAND AND GRAVEL; EROSION BEACHES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); FLOOD INSURANCE (89%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); EROSION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); RIVERS (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (63%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT NORBERT PSUTY (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



562 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Vote Yes on the Bond Act

 BODY:
In 1990 New Yorkers narrowly defeated a proposed bond act providing $2 billion in long-term capital to preserve open space and otherwise enhance New York State's environment. The voters will have a chance to rectify that error on Nov. 5. This year's ballot includes a proposal that would allow the state to sell $1.75 billion in bonds for many of the same projects that were left unfunded six years ago. New Yorkers, who have approved nine other environmental bond acts in this century alone, can honor their long tradition of stewardship by voting yes.
The 1990 proposal coincided with a gubernatorial race between Mario Cuomo and a weak Republican opponent. Assuming an easy Cuomo victory, many downstate residents who normally would have voted for the bond issue stayed away from the polls. The act was also heavily weighted toward the purchase of undeveloped land, inspiring exaggerated fears among upstate New Yorkers that Albany would seize their property. The upstaters turned out in droves to vote no. 
 This year's act would spread the money over a range of projects aimed at cleaner air and water. The bulk of it, $1.1 billion, would be spent on protecting lakes, rivers, seashores and drinking water. This sum includes $150 million for land acquisition, less than necessary but more than is now available. The balance would be spent on urgent solid-waste projects, such as closing the Fresh Kills dump on Staten island; on cleaning up polluted industrial sites, and on clean-air programs, including a project to replace coal-fired boilers in New York City schools.
The most important difference this time around is Gov. George Pataki's involvement. The bond act is an obvious way to burnish his credentials on environmental issues. But whatever his motives, he has traveled tirelessly across the state in behalf of the proposal and has won over many adversaries, including the unions, to his cause.
The act faces only two real dangers. One is voter indifference, which the Governor and his allies are working hard to prevent. The other is the argument -- forcefully advanced by Michael Bragman, the State Assembly's majority leader -- that the state cannot afford any more debt. Mr. Bragman notes that New York has a terrible credit rating and says that pay-as-you-go financing is a more responsible course.
These are serious but incomplete arguments. A lot of important projects -- Fresh Kills, for example, or the dozen or so sewage treatment plants necessary to help rescue Long Island Sound -- simply cannot await piecemeal funding. Second, there is no guarantee that future legislatures will approve annual appropriations for environmental purposes. Finally, problems ignored now are sure to become more complicated and costly later on. New York City's Independent Budget Office says that when inflation is taken into account, pay-as-you-go financing of the same projects covered by the bond act would not be any cheaper.
For these and other reasons, the Clean Water/ Clean Air Bond Act is a sound economic investment. It is also a wise investment in the state's environment, one that future generations will surely applaud.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; EDITORIALS; REFERENDUMS; WATER POLLUTION; ENVIRONMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); REFERENDUMS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (72%); LAKES (72%); WATER QUALITY (67%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



563 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: The New Face of Europe's Far Right

 BODY:
Austria's far-right Freedom Party continued its troubling electoral climb in voting earlier this month. Confounding predictions that it had reached the natural limits of its support, the Freedom Party pulled within striking distance of the country's two mainstream parties in elections for the European Parliament and did almost as well in Vienna's municipal elections. If it makes further gains in the next parliamentary election, the party may get a chance to form a government.
The far right's resurgence is scarcely limited to Austria, though nowhere else has it come quite so far. In France, Jean-Marie Le Pen's anti-immigrant National Front has been a major political factor for well over a decade and has recently gained strength. In Italy a leader of the old neo-Fascist movement, Gianfranco Fini, has become a major national figure after cleansing his party of some of its most objectionable elements. 
 In Austria the Freedom Party's leader, Jorg Haider, has expressed admiration for veterans of the Nazi SS. His father was an active Nazi. Since World War II a party with such a benign view of Nazism has not come so close to power in Europe.
The 15 countries of the European Union, already coping with high unemployment and immigration, have begun to prune the benefits of the postwar welfare state to meet budget targets for a single European currency. France has sought economies in health-care benefits, Germany has adopted a law allowing reductions in sick pay, and Italy's austere new budget includes pension and health-care cuts. That has fueled a backlash, particularly among anxious working-class voters, with the far right reaping most of the protest votes.
But backlash is not the whole story. Unemployment, in fact, is scarcely a factor in Austria. While most countries are reluctant to acknowledge it, Fascist ideology is a deep-rooted historical strain in European politics.
The wellsprings of Fascist support are typically anxiety about crime, social strife and foreigners and a feeling that liberal democracy is corrosive of national identity. In Austria, Mr. Haider has combined the appeal of youthful athleticism, populist immigrant-bashing and symbolic gestures toward Austria's past Nazi sympathies.
European parties of the center-left and center-right need to sharpen their own appeals to the voters who used to support them but are now streaming to the parties of the far right. In particular, they should reconsider their rush to create a single currency by the end of this decade. That goal, which has little appeal to voters, has forced parties to raise taxes and cut benefits without regard to economic cycles and political consequences.
A far-right triumph in Austria would have few direct consequences for the United States. But it would threaten the European Union's plans for closer economic integration and expansion eastward. It could also legitimize extreme-right-wing parties in neighboring countries like Germany, Italy and Hungary and set a negative example for the countries of the former Yugoslavia, where democratic traditions barely exist.
Far-right parties, as long as they play by the democratic rules, should be free to contest for votes and power. Mainstream parties need to meet their growing challenge by addressing the voters' anxieties that are fueling the rightist surge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); AUSTRIA (94%); FRANCE (92%); ITALY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRIA; EUROPE; EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); AUSTRIA (94%); FRANCE (92%); ITALY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); IMMIGRATION (88%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); EURO (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); CURRENCIES (64%); CITIES (56%); 

PERSON: JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



564 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Lenasia Township Journal;
Learning to Rebuild South Africa, Brick by Brick

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: LENASIA TOWNSHIP, South Africa, Oct. 17

 BODY:
Isaac Makoko is building a brick wall. If it isn't straight, he will have to tear it down and begin again. If he gets it right, he has the pleasure of watching the next trainee dismantle it. It's easy -- his mortar is actually mud.
In this impoverished township south of Johannesburg, next to a squatter camp and housed in what used to be the workers' dormitories of a brickyard, is the Union Building Trades Project, a trade school founded with a $4.2 million grant from the United States Agency for International Development and run by a bricklayer from Ogden, Utah, who works for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. 
 If South Africa is ever to make good on its promise to build millions of new houses, schools like this are going to have to pour out new carpenters, masons, electricians and welders.
"The Clay Brick Association told me the country's going to need 10,000 bricklayers a year if the Reconstruction and Development Program is ever going to take off," said Bill Smith, the school's director. "We train 200 a year. It's a drop in the bucket."
There are about 80 other trade schools, of varying quality, in South Africa, he said. But this is the only one that specializes in taking unemployed men from black and mixed-race townships. It gives them 12 weeks of training in a trade -- enough to get them started up the ladder from minimum-wage apprentice to top-wage artisan.
For example, "there are about 40 skills on the bricklayer's test, from laying a straight line up to building an arch," Mr. Smith said. "By the time they graduate from here, they should be able to build a wall and a column, use a plumb, maybe read a blueprint." An illiterate worker will at least learn to read a tape measure and a "Danger" sign and to total his weekly pay to be sure he was not cheated.
The school emphasizes real-world discipline. Be late three times and you're out. No sitting down. No hard hats off. Lose a tool and you buy its replacement. One locker in the tile classroom has a scrawled warning: "You steal my tools, I steal yours. Just be yourself, brother."
Before trainees graduate, they also get a quick course in running a contracting business. For some the leap is enormous and confusing. They are taught about submitting bids and managing cash flow. But they also get talks on dressing for success and on being ready to look white businessmen in the eye -- in many African cultures, meeting a gaze directly is a sign of disrespect, not honesty.
Mr. Makoko, 28, said he had a 12th-grade education, but had never had a job. "I knew nothing about how to lay bricks and mortar," he said. "Since I'm here, I've got an advantage when I look for a job."
Isaac Manda, 41, said he was once a quality inspector in a cough drop factory, but it moved to Cape Town. "I lost my home ... I lost quite a lot of things," he said quietly, his eyes fixed on the tile he was sanding smooth. "But now I hope to recover it."
Although his family is in Soweto, a 10-minute drive away, he lives in the school's dormitories all week. "We have transport problems in Soweto," he said. "I don't want to disappoint. If I am late, I'll have a fight, and I don't want to fight because they treat me well."
He dreams of having his own business, but the immensity of the obstacles becomes clear as he describes going to a trade fair and seeing a spirit level he coveted -- just one of about 20 tools a tile-and-plaster worker needs. "It could measure degrees," he said admiringly. "If you wanted to make a floor slope five degrees so water would flow down, it would make your job easier. But the problem was, it cost 1,260 rand."
When he graduates, he said, he hopes to make 3,000 rand a month -- about $670. He's optimistic. The average employed graduate makes about $250. About half the trainees find work, usually at large construction comoanies like Grinaker or Stocks & Stocks.
The big success story is Chandler Naick of Lenasia. He spoke when Vice President Al Gore visited the school last December and, with the salesmanship of a recruiting brochure, reported: "Two years ago, I was unemployed. I came here and learned plumbing. I'm working at the moment. I have 200 people under me. I drive a Mercedes."
Why you? he was asked afterward. "I think I was one of the lucky ones," he replied. "And maybe I was more determined."
The school is scheduled to be turned over to South African leadership in December. But it is running into difficulties related to union politics here, which are often militant, messy and parochial.
In another legacy of apartheid, there are several unions in each industry, usually one for skilled white workers and several for unskilled black workers, each affiliated with a different political party. That is the case in the building trades, and the competing black unions affiliated with the school have not been able to agree on a replacement for Mr. Smith.
They also picked the school's last crop of instructors, some of whom were better connected than they were skilled, Mr. Smith said, and five of the eight teachers flunked their accreditation exams in January.
Meanwhile, the industry, more tied to the white unions, suddenly imposed a $22 fee on all new, previously unemployed apprentices. The school is paying the fee for its graduates, but it is another bite in an already tight budget. "I'd rather spend the money on bricks," Mr. Smith said.
He seems confident the problems can be solved. He last did this kind of work in El Salvador. There, "the unions and the contractors were literally killing each other," he said. "But after five years, we got them to sit down at a table and agree that training was a good thing for everybody."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a poor South African township, a trade school founded with a United States grant teaches unemployed black and mixed-race men. An instructor, Samson Matakanye, center left, passed on his skills to Issac Makota. (Graeme Williams for The New York Times)
 
Map of South Africa highlighting Lenasia: The United States provided a grant for the Lenasia trade school.
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (91%); OGDEN, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNION BUILDING TRADES PROJECT (SOUTH AFRICA); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) CLAY BRICK ASSOCIATION (72%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); AFL-CIO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNION BUILDING TRADES PROJECT (SOUTH AFRICA); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); AFL-CIO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; LENASIA TOWNSHIP (SOUTH AFRICA); SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); UTAH, USA (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (91%); OGDEN, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET MASONRY CONTRACTORS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); STUDENT HOUSING (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR ISAAC MAKOKO (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



565 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Discrimination May Affect Risk of High Blood Pressure in Blacks

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 23

 BODY:
The risk of high blood pressure among blacks appears to be affected by experiences with racial discrimination and whether people challenge unfair treatment, researchers said today.
The researchers, from the Harvard School of Public Health in Boston and the Kaiser Foundation Research Institute of Oakland, Calif., said a study of more than 4,000 men and women indicated that racial discrimination and reactions to it made a substantial contribution to the differences in blood pressure between blacks and whites. 
 In general, black professionals who are conscious of instances of discrimination and who challenge unjust or unequal treatment appear to be at lower risk of elevated blood pressure than black working class men and women who may be less aware of discriminatory acts and less likely to challenge them, the researchers said.
The scientists said their study, published in the October issue of The American Journal of Public Health, was the first to examine the relationship between higher blood pressure and experiences with racial discrimination as they relate to the social class and sex of blacks.
Blacks suffer from high blood pressure, or hypertension, at about twice the rate of whites. Several smaller studies have linked stress and the reaction to racism as an apparent added risk factor of hypertension, along with other environmental reasons like diet, excess salt intake, lack of exercise and being overweight.
Blacks also have a genetic predisposition to the condition, which can lead to stroke, heart disease, organ damage and other problems.
Dr. Nancy Krieger of Harvard, the principal researcher for the study, said scientists examining health issues typically treated race as only a biological attribute and did not examine the health consequences of racial experiences and reactions.
"These results, which are preliminary, say that race and discrimination have a bearing on blood pressure," Dr. Krieger said in an interview. "Now we have to find out what it is."
The study involved 831 black men, 1,143 black women, 1,006 white men and 1,106 white women aged 25 to 37 years old. In this relatively young group, part of a larger heart disease study, few had developed overt, treatable high blood pressure.
Generally, the study found that working class blacks who reported experiencing two or more discriminatory instances -- when looking for a job or housing, for example -- had higher normal blood pressure than their white counterparts or professional blacks. The report speculated that the greater social and economic resources of black professionals might contribute to a willingness to point out discrimination and challenge it.
Among working class participants, the study suggested, higher blood pressure may be attributable to suppressed or internalized responses to racial discrimination.
The study noted, however, that the data were not uniform for every group of blacks. For example, groups of black men who reported that they had not experienced racial discrimination in the situations outlined in the study differed from the general trend. Working class black men reporting no discrimination, and who said they accepted unfair treatment unrelated to race, had higher blood pressure than working class black men who challenged unfair treatment and had experienced one or two instances of discrimination.
In addition, professional black men who said they had not been discriminated against, but who said they typically challenged any unfair situations, had blood pressure levels at or below levels seen in white professionals, the study said.
Dr. Krieger said these seemingly atypical results could not be easily explained. Some research suggests, she said, that some people who have experienced discrimination find it hard to admit, even to themselves. A study conducted in England among blacks, she said, found that individuals who initially reported no experience with racial discrimination acknowledged the experiences when asked more probing questions.
"We can't answer all of the questions with this study, but what we can say is that racial prejudice and discrimination does affect the blood pressure of blacks in different ways and should be studied in more detail," Dr. Krieger said.
Dr. Michael J. Klag, a hypertension expert at Johns Hopkins University Medical School who did an earlier study showing that stress among blacks contributed to higher blood pressure, said the new study was important because it spotlighted issues that have gotten too little attention.
"This study is well done and has produced a lot of data that needs to be discussed," Dr. Klag said in an interview. "There are very few studies like this and that's been a problem."
He said some of the results, like those involving black participants who claimed not to have suffered discrimination, were puzzling. "This study doesn't give clear-cut answers to every question, which is why we need more work like this," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (58%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (58%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (58%); HARVARD SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH HARVARD SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BLOOD PRESSURE; BLACKS; RESEARCH; DISCRIMINATION HYPERTENSION (94%); RACE & RACISM (93%); DISCRIMINATION (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); WOMEN (89%); HEART DISEASE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); TRENDS (75%); STROKES (73%); INTERVIEWS (68%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (62%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E NANCY KRIEGER (80%); MICHAEL J KLAG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



566 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE DEMOCRAT;
Clinton Praises Welfare Bill In a Conservative Region

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: DAYTONA BEACH, Fla., Oct. 23

 BODY:
In the continuing battle for the nation's fourth-largest state, President Clinton touted his welfare policies in this conservative region of Florida today, a morning after wooing Cuban-Americans at a late-night visit to Miami's Little Havana.
On a glorious sunny day, with American flags and palm trees whipping in a breeze and a green and orange sign behind him proclaiming "Welfare to work, a new beginning," Mr. Clinton promoted his signing of a Republican-originated bill that sets stringent time limits on welfare benefits. 
 "I ran for office in 1992," Mr. Clinton said, "and I told you here in Daytona that I would work to end welfare as we know it and to convert it to a system that promotes independence, good parenting, and successful work. And that's exactly what we're doing."
When he announced this past summer that he would sign the welfare measure, Mr. Clinton called the bill flawed and said he particularly objected to provisions limiting assistance to legal immigrants and to restrictions on food stamps.
But at the rally today the President mentioned none of his reservations. He described the law as one that "says the national Government will continue to guarantee to poor families health care and food for the children and if they go to work more for child care than ever."
The President also pointed to a report released today by the Health and Human Services Department showing that more than $1 billion in delinquent child support payments was withheld from Federal income tax refunds in 1995.
"We're going to keep going until we raise child support more and more and more," he said, noting that this money was coming from "parents, not from the taxpayers."
Mr. Clinton narrowly lost Florida in 1992 and, according to public opinion polls, he and Bob Dole are in a dead heat. The state has been saturated with millions of dollars in campaign advertisements, and Douglas Sosnik, the White House political director, said he expected the Clinton television advertising to continue. He said the President would probably return to Florida before the election.
Florida last supported a Democratic Presidential candidate in 1976, and Mr. Clinton's presence here so close to Election Day illustrates how far he is reaching into states normally considered a secure part of the Republican base. In fact, Mr. Clinton will finish out this week not in the normal battleground states of the industrial Midwest but in Alabama, Louisiana and Georgia.
Mr. Clinton's aides believe several factors have made the President competitive here. The Democrats have been able to make inroads into Florida's large population of retirees by capitalizing on the Republican budget plan last year to slow the growth of Medicare spending by $270 billion over seven years.
In addition, the Democrats say Republican positions on immigration and in favor of English as the nation's official language have hurt in the traditionally Republican Cuban-American community. A recent Miami Herald poll found that 41 percent of Florida's Cuban-Americans plan to vote for Mr. Clinton, compared with 58 percent for Mr. Dole. That is double what Mr. Clinton won in 1992, and Mr. Sosnik said it was generally believed that Mr. Clinton could win the state if he held on to 30 percent of the Cuban vote.
Late Tuesday night -- after appearing at fund-raising events that collected $2 million for Florida Democrats -- Mr. Clinton turned up at the Versailles, a Cuban restaurant in the heart of Little Havana, to eat dessert with 20 prominent Cuban-Americans. Outside the restaurant Clinton and Dole supporters waged a shouting match, one group shouting "Viva Dole" and the other countering "Dole no, Clinton si."
Earlier that day, the Treasury Department announced that it was granting special licenses to allow direct flights to Cuba to bring aid to victims of Hurricane Lili.
Tonight, Mr. Clinton returned to Washington for the third major fund-raising event in a week, bringing the total to an expected $15 million, primarily for Democratic Congressional candidates.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton was greeted yesterday by well-wishers in Daytona Beach, Fla., left, while his running mate, Vice President Al Gore, campaigned in Duluth, Minn. Mr. Gore blamed the Republicans for past economic problems and said the Clinton Administration was "making progress." (James Estrin/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (90%); DULUTH, MN, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN CUBAN-AMERICAN (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (97%); FLORIDA, USA (97%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (90%); DULUTH, MN, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; WELFARE (US); ELECTION ISSUES CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CHILDREN (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PARENTING (70%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); IMMIGRATION (67%); MEDICARE (65%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); INCOME TAX (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (61%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



567 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Republican Candidate Woos Business as Democrat Speaks on Drunken Driving;
Torricelli Addresses Cuban-Americans On Union City Visit

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 23

 BODY:
Representative Robert G. Torricelli criticized his Republican opponent in the United States Senate race today for failing to back a Federal law against drunken driving by teen-agers and also campaigned in New Jersey's large Cuban-American community, making an appearance with an influential Miami-based exile leader who has drawn criticism for intimidating opponents.
In a brief news conference at the Union Township Police Station, Mr. Torricelli accused Representative Richard A. Zimmer, the Republican candidate, of being an extremist for voting against a 1995 law that cut Federal highway subsidies for states that did not completely prohibit teen-agers from driving after drinking alcohol. 
 "In the state of New Jersey last year, 112 teen-agers lost their lives driving after consuming alcohol," Mr. Torricelli said.
Polls show that the two candidates are running even in the ferocious, mud-slinging contest to succeed Senator Bill Bradley, a Democrat.
Mr. Torricelli appeared with Representative Nita M. Lowey, the Democrat from Westchester who was the author of the legislation. "Anyone who would vote against stronger drunk driving laws is just too extreme for New Jersey," she said. "We just have to get tougher on drunk driving. It is a matter of life and death."
The Zimmer campaign said that the Congressman voted against the Federal law because New Jersey had already passed a 1992 state law banning teen-agers from driving if their blood alcohol level was greater than 0.01 percent. (Although the legal age for purchasing alcohol in New Jersey is 21, it is not illegal to drink liquor at home.)
"Dick Zimmer thinks New Jersey is capable of making its own decisions and does not need the Federal Government telling it what to do," said David Karvelas, communications director of the Zimmer campaign.
Mr. Torricelli said one difference between him and his opponent is their views of the role of the Federal Government in creating policies for all the states.
"The Federal Government having these uniform mandatory zero tolerance standards is an appropriate role of the Government," Mr. Torricelli said.
Earlier in Union City, Mr. Torricelli attended a lunch at Mi Bandera Restaurant with Jorge Mas Canosa, a Florida construction magnate considered one of the most prominent leaders in the Cuban exile community. In a little over a decade, Mr. Mas, a Republican, has used his personal fortune and a political action committee to donate more than $1 million to Congressional and Presidential candidates who support his hostile, uncompromising approach toward Fidel Castro.
"The fight is not over until there is an election in Cuba, Fidel Castro is a bad memory and the people in Cuba are free," a campaign statement quoted Mr Torricelli as saying at the lunch for 75 people.
New Jersey's Cuban-American population of 87,000 is one of the largest in the United States outside Florida. Mr. Torricelli sponsored the 1992 Cuban Democracy Act, which extended the United States economic embargo and imposed penalties on foreign subsidiaries of American companies trading with Cuba. He also helped write this year's Helms-Burton Act, which seeks to punish foreign companies that use factories or other property confiscated from Americans after the Cuban revolution.
"As you were there when we needed you, we are here for you in your time of need," Mr. Mas said, according to a statement released by the Torricelli campaign. "Every Cuban-American would be fulfilling their ideals and their values by casting their vote for Bob Torricelli."
The Zimmer campaign played down the endorsement from the influential Cuban, saying Mr. Zimmer was a strong supporter of strengthening the embargo, of preventing Cuba from getting aid funds from institutions like the World Bank and of reversing the Clinton administration policy of returning Cuban boat people.
"The Cubans in New Jersey don't need to be told who to vote for, they know who to vote for by virtue of Dick's stronger record, not just on Cuban issues but on mainstream matters like lower taxes," Mr. Karvelas said.
Early campaign records show $2,000 in donations from the Mas family to Mr. Torricelli's campaign.
Mr. Mas, often seen as seeking to make himself Cuba's leader, has attracted criticism from the human rights group Human Rights Watch/ Americas for attempting to silence and intimidate opponents. A study published in 1993 by the Strategic Studies Institute of the Army War College also called Mr. Mas intolerant and given to delivering "speeches exuding hatred and intransigence."
The Torricelli campaign rejected any criticism of Mr. Mas. "Mr. Mas Canosa is a leader in the Cuban community and shares Mr. Torricelli's commitment to a free and democratic Cuba," said Josh Isay, a campaign spokesman. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) UNION TOWNSHIP POLICE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) UNION TOWNSHIP POLICE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; DRUNKEN AND RECKLESS DRIVING; CUBAN-AMERICANS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); 

PERSON: MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (REPR); ZIMMER, RICHARD A (REPR) NITA M LOWEY (59%); FIDEL CASTRO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



568 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Destitute Ex-Contras Demand U.S. Aid

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: QUILALI, Nicaragua

 BODY:
After the leftist Sandinista Government was voted out of office in 1990, more of the American-backed anti-Sandinista fighters known as contras settled here than in any other place in Nicaragua. Most are destitute, and many are crippled -- their limbs, sight or overall health destroyed by a decade of civil war.
Now, however, these peasant soldiers, who fought the Sandinistas with the backing of the Reagan Administration, think they have found a way to ease their hardship. Encouraged by Washington's recent payment of $20 million to Vietnamese commandos who worked as American agents three decades ago, the Nicaraguans are seeking an indemnity from the United States. 
 "They gave us millions to fight, but once we were disarmed and demobilized, we were abandoned and forgotten," said Alex Talavera, a leader of the hundreds of former contras in this isolated mountain community near the Honduran border. "Our wounded, crippled, hungry and orphaned are many, and we believe the United States has a moral obligation to help them."
The idea has been received coolly by the Clinton Administration.
According to a recent study conducted for the International Society for Human Rights, a German group that has spoken out on behalf of former combatants in Russia and Bosnia, "over 20,000 former members of the Nicaraguan resistance and their families live in abject poverty" in northern Nicaragua.
Those who work with the former contras have expressed special concern about the 2,000 crippled by their combat injuries.
"This is such a poor country that regardless of political affiliations, this situation can only be regarded as a tragedy," said Sergio Caramagna, director of the Organization of American States mission here. "To be blind, an amputee or in a wheelchair is difficult enough in Managua, but out in the countryside it is nearly impossible."
Felipe Lumbi Garcia joined the contras in 1982. Just before the war's end in 1990 he stepped on a mine, which left him blind, deaf in his left ear and with severe injuries to his limbs. He lives on a disabled veteran's pension of about $29 a month, larger than normal because he has three children, but he argues that he and his comrades deserve more.
"The United States had a hand in all of the destruction that went on around here," he said. "So it would be ideal if they helped us in the reconstruction."
[Nicaragua's President-elect, Arnoldo Aleman, who defeated Daniel Ortega Saavedra of the Sandinista Front in the election on Sunday, has praised the contras for "helping deliver us from the dark night" of Sandinista rule. But he has also said his top economic priority is "to buy peace" by resolving land disputes from the 1980's, and has not promised any special aid to the contras.]
Former contras plan to take their cause to Congress, which they regard as more sympathetic now.
In June Congress approved a bill authorizing a $20 million payment to 500 former South Vietnamese commandoes trained by the Central Intelligence Agency, many of whom had been captured and jailed after infiltrating into North Vietnam in the 1960's. President Clinton signed the bill into law.
"We are very optimistic," said Uriel Rodriguez, a leader of a veterans' organization here. "Our demand is just and legal, and many Congressmen were our friends and sympathized with our movement."
The Clinton Administration, however, has dismissed the contra demand as lacking merit. "The Department of State is not aware of any basis for such claims for compensation," the United States Embassy in Managua said this summer.
One Government official in Washington said that agreeing to any compensation would set a dangerous precedent. Other groups that have collaborated with the C.I.A., ranging from veterans of the Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba in 1961 to Iraqi Kurds, might also be tempted to seek restitution if the contras' case were successful, he argued.
The contras' demand has also been greeted with reservations by many who championed their cause in the 1980's. Elliott Abrams, who was Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs at the height of the war, noted that the Nicaraguan Government has already received more than $2 billion from the United States, some of it intended to aid the former guerrillas.
"I think we owe a debt to these former allies, and I don't think we have discharged that debt," Mr. Abrams, president of the Nicaraguan Resistance Education Foundation, a charitable group that aids former Contras, said in a telephone interview from Washington. "But there are ways of doing it that I think are sensible and morally persuasive, and others that are not."
Contra leaders here say little of the American aid has reached them. Only a lump sum paid directly to former contras and administered by them can make the situation right, they argue.
"We agree that the United States does have a special responsibility to help the ex-resistance, but I can't tell you that's going to lead to writing them a check," said Dan Fisk, an aide to Senator Jesse Helms, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. "Their focus should be on Managua in obtaining compensation.
"In our view the United States did not create the contras. They were indigenous groups that came together and proceeded to take up arms against Sandinista policies, not mercenaries of the United States. It seems to me that as part of their legacy, they do not want to be known as that."
But Stephanie Murphy, a Miami immigration lawyer who has represented many former contras seeking legal residence in the United States, rejected those arguments, saying Washington bears "more than a moral responsibility for the devastation that has been left behind." Should Congress fail to approve compensation, she added, she is prepared to take the issue to court.
"The arguments are the same as Vietnam," Ms. Murphy said in a telephone interview from Miami. "It was an overt war, the C.I.A. was involved, and when it got what it wanted out of these people, they were left in the lurch, to their great hardship and detriment."
Some former contra commanders are now American citizens and live in the United States, which former combatants still living here believe could help strengthen their case. "If they have to, they could file a class action suit in the name of all the combatants," said Mr. Rodriguez, of the veterans' association.
In the meantime, many former contras here continue to wait, hoping for the best but growing more and more bitter. Talk of programs to teach them a new livelihood, like ceramics or carpentry, has amounted to little, and promises that they will receive their own houses and plots of land to cultivate have been slow to materialize.
"The only support we get comes from our own families," said Mr. Lumbi, the crippled veteran. "The big shots, including many of the commanders, are living in big mansions. But we are just peasants, and we have been forgotten."

GRAPHIC: Map of Nicaragua highlighting Quilali: Hundreds of former contras have settled in Quilali. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); HONDURAS (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

COMPANY: SANDINISTA NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SANDINISTA NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA; NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); HONDURAS (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE CIVIL WAR (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); BLINDNESS (77%); FAMILY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (71%); DISARMAMENT (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (67%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



569 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Two Sides List Views in Fight Over Cable TV

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
Continuing a fight over whether Rupert Murdoch's news channel will be seen in much of New York City, the Giuliani administration and Time Warner issued dueling legal briefs yesterday to bolster their stances on the legality of the Mayor's plan to show the channel on a cable station run by the city.
Each side cited past practice at the five city-run cable stations, highlighting a point that legal experts have been making since the dispute over Mr. Murdoch's new Fox News Channel began last month: there are few precedents to offer guidance on who may be right. 
 At the center of the dispute is the role of the city-run stations, which are known as Crosswalks. The Mayor decided to place the new Fox channel on one of the Crosswalks channels after Time Warner, which serves 1.1 million customers in New York, rejected it, saying there was no room left on the cable system.
Federal law and the city's franchise agreement with Time Warner say that the administration can transmit governmental or educational programming on the stations, but it is not clear whether commercial programming is allowed.
A Federal judge, Denise Cote, is to weigh the legal papers before a hearing on the dispute that she is to conduct on Monday. Judge Cote temporarily blocked the city from transmitting the Murdoch channel on Crosswalks earlier this month after Time Warner went to court.
In their affidavits, administration officials emphasized that they had often transmitted commercial programming that was educational on the city-run stations, proving that there was nothing unusual about their proposal to help Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation. Among the commercial programs the officials cited were weekly spots on computers produced by Microsoft and featuring the company's products, they said.
"Time Warner has never challenged Crosswalks' carriage of these programs," said Elaine S. Reiss, general counsel for the Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications, which oversees Crosswalks.
The city's legal papers also referred to contacts between the city and the News Corporation. For example, Fran Reiter, the Deputy Mayor for Economic Development, said that Roger Ailes, a former Republican political consultant who is now chairman of the Murdoch channel, called Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani late last month, asking for help.
Time Warner said in its affidavits that on at least two occasions, the city had turned down programming for Crosswalks because it was commercial in nature. The company said that those rejections showed that Mr. Giuliani was breaking past practice to help Mr. Murdoch.
Time Warner executives have maintained that the Mayor is helping Mr. Murdoch because he wants the political support of the powerful media magnate, who owns The New York Post and WNYW, Channel 5.
The two companies that Time Warner referred to were the Kaleidoscope Network, which produces shows for disabled people, and Gems International Television, a Hispanic programmer. In interviews, officials of both companies supported the Time Warner contentions.
"They told me that they liked the service, but that because we were commercial, they could not put it on," Dr. Bill Nichols, the president of Kaleidoscope, said of the Crosswalks officials.
Sunny Mindel, a spokeswoman for the telecommunications department, declined to comment on the accusation, saying the agency did not discuss pending legal matters.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (85%); NWS (ASX) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC; FOX NEWS CHANNEL FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%); NEWS CORP (85%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER INC; FOX NEWS CHANNEL

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION CABLE TELEVISION (91%); MAYORS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%); CABLE INDUSTRY (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (71%); JUDGES (71%); INTERVIEWS (65%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MURDOCH, RUPERT KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%); ROGER AILES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



570 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Zoning Plan for Warehouse-Style Stores Is Approved and Sent to Council in Close Vote

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

 BODY:
A divided City Planning Commission approved Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's proposal to allow sprawling warehouse-style stores in manufacturing areas around the city yesterday. It rejected pleas that neighborhoods should have a larger voice in whether an individual store is appropriate for their area.
Acknowledging the concerns of many community groups about increased traffic near residential areas, the commission did agree to change the original proposal to allow local officials to review the traffic plan for a store. Residents could help to determine which street would be the best entrance for a 500-car parking lot, for example. 
 But the proposal would allow developers to build many stores in designated manufacturing areas "as of right," which means that the public hearing process would not be required and neighborhood views not solicited.
The unusually close 8-to-5 vote on the commission, which has a majority of Giuliani appointees, presages an intense fight ahead in the City Council, which must approve or reject the proposal within 65 days. Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the Council, said he had not yet decided how he will vote, but many Council members have expressed opposition.
All seven of the Mayor's appointees to the Planning Commission voted in favor of the megastores yesterday, as did the appointee of Guy V. Molinari, the Staten Island Borough President.
But hinting at the political battle ahead, the appointees of all of the other borough presidents and that of the Public Advocate voted no, reflecting the opposition to the stores that has grown in neighborhoods around the city.
Of the city's 36 community boards, 21 have recommended a no vote, as have all 5 borough boards.
Commission members on both sides of the issue said that yesterday's vote was one of the most important they would cast. The chairman, Joseph B. Rose, called it "a historic moment in the city's planning."
Proponents said the rezoning would keep shoppers in the city and out of the suburbs, improving the city's economy and lowering prices. Opponents said the huge stores were bad neighbors and needed stricter controls to limit their impact.
The proposal would permit up to 57 of the stores to be built around the city in light and medium manufacturing zones, many of which are now vacant. In areas where streets are wide, developers would not need special permits to build stores as large as 200,000 square feet, which is a bit more than the size of four football fields. Areas with narrow streets could have stores with 20,000 square feet and would require a special permit and a land-use hearing.
Most of the new developments would probably be food, clothing and department stores, because large hardware and toy stores are already allowed.
The issue of superstores has already become politicized, with several of Mr. Giuliani's expected opponents in next year's mayoral race taking firm stands alongside the small businesses and neighborhood organizations that are against the administration's plan. Several City Council members said they expected the final plan to be a compromise that permits more public involvement and Council regulation of individual stores than the Giuliani administration favors.
Mr. Rose said he thought Council members would come to understand the merits of the proposal if they cast aside political considerations. He said the rezoning plan would allow greater review of large hardware stores like Home Depot than is now permitted, and would impose stricter design requirements to screen stores from nearby homes. Other proponents on the commission cast the decision in economic terms.
"We have a job crisis in this city, and I think the big-box stores can bring jobs to this city," said Victor G. Alicea, the vice chairman of the panel. Alexander Garvin, another mayoral appointee, said many poor residents had complained in public hearings that they were forced to shop in small groceries with small selections and high prices.
"The poor pay more in New York, because they can't go to these stores, which are outside the city of New York, by and large," said Mr. Garvin, an architect and longtime urban planner who served as deputy housing commissioner in the Beame administration. "And who's responsible for this discrimination? The zoning ordinance, because there are not enough sites in New York for big-box retailers."
Opponents of the plan generally agreed that the city needs more large stores to keep shoppers from traveling to the suburbs, but said they could not vote for a plan that excludes residents from the review process.
"While I agree that the current process must be reformed, I do not believe that the total exclusion of the community from the process is right," said Irwin G. Cantor, the appointee of the Queens Borough President, Claire Shulman. "The community knows its neighborhoods, its streets, its storekeepers, its needs.
"It is my view that the community has a right to be heard. It should know more about which specific sites are candidates for large retail, and it should have the right to comment upon such critical impositions in its neighborhood." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (54%); SEVERAL CITY COUNCIL (91%); CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEVERAL CITY COUNCIL (91%); CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ZONING APPROVALS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); ZONING (90%); MAYORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); SUBURBS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); BUILDING PERMITS (74%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (73%); TOYS & GAMES (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (60%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



571 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-15
 
ABUSE OF JEWISH FUNDS CHARGED Newly disclosed documents indicate that unclaimed accounts of presumed Holocaust victims were used to ease Switzerland's postwar compensation disputes with Poland and Hungary. A1
 
INQUIRY INTO ARGENTINA'S PAST A judge in Spain has opened a criminal investigation into the torture, disappearance and killings of Spanish citizens in Argentina during military rule from 1976 to 1983. A3
 
KURDS CALL A TRUCE The two Kurdish factions battling for supremacy in northern Iraq agreed to a cease-fire, easing American fears that the renewed fighting could once again tempt Iraq into intervening. A11
 
FRENCH BOOST FOR PALESTINIANS President Jacques Chirac of France became the first head of state to address the Palestinian legislative council. A10
 
MONGOLIA'S ECONOMIC WOES A Mongolian coal town, like the country itself, is caught between the abandoned Soviet-era economy and capitalism. A12
 
CONTRAS SEEK U.S. AID Encouraged by Washington's payment of $20 million to Vietnamese commandos who worked as American agents three decades ago, Nicaraguan contras are seeking an American indemnity. A12
 
Military coups are making a comeback in west Africa. A5
 
Ukraine is caught in a tug-of-war between Russia and NATO. A6
 
Gro Harlem Brundtland resigned as Norway's Prime Minister. A7
 
Caribbean countries voice dismay at U.S. economic policies. A13
 
British scientists linked mad cow disease and a human illness. A15
 
Lenasia Township Journal: Training workers for South Africa. A4
 
National A16-25
 
DOLE SEEKS PEROT'S BACKING
Bob Dole dispatched a top aide to urge Ross Perot to quit the Presidential race and endorse him instead. A1
 
THURMOND'S LASTING APPEAL
As Senator Strom Thurmond seeks his eighth term, at age 93, there is widespread affection for him in South Carolina despite misgivings about his age. A1
President Clinton promoted his welfare policy in Florida. B10
Dole officials say they will spend $4 million on ads in California. B11
Voters in 20 states will decide 90 initiatives on Election Day. A1
 
A NEW LEADER FOR AT&T
AT&T has named John R. Walter, chairman of the commercial printing giant R.R. Donnelley & Sons, as its new president and heir apparent to the current chairman. A1
 
2D SIMPSON TRIAL BEGINS
The O.J. Simpson civil trial opened with one lawyer saying the case was the "last fight for justice" for the families of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald L. Goldman. A18
 
A RECORD FIRE SEASON
The fires ravaging California are a finale to the nation's worst wildfire season since 1952. A16
 
BLOOD PRESSURE TIED TO BIAS
Researchers said the risk of high blood pressure among blacks appeared to be affected by experiences with racial bias. A20
 
ADVANCE ON AIDS TUMORS
In a study, tumors of Kaposi's sarcoma, the most common form of cancer among people with AIDS, often yielded to injections of a hormone produced in pregnancy. A24
 
PROTESTER COMMITS SUICIDE
A political demonstrator set herself afire on the University of Pennsylvania campus. B12
 
A former mayor of Biloxi, Miss., was indicted in a killing. A16
 
The usual Lyme disease therapy of oral drugs is found effective. A20
 
A study found angioplasty and clot-dissolving drugs similar. A21
 
Metro Report B1-9
 
JUDGE BACKS SEX-SHOP LAW
 A New York State Supreme Court justice upheld the new city ordinance intended to restrict X-rated businesses, denying a request from store owners to block the law, which takes effect on Saturday. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-22
Charges were dropped in a case of stolen treasures. C13
Paying tribute to a music historian. C13
Dance: Pacific Northwest Ballet. C13
Books: "Rewrites: A Memoir," by Neil Simon. C19
 
Sports B14-21
 
IT ISN'T OVER TILL . . .
The Yankees came back from a 6-0 deficit to beat the Atlanta Braves in extra innings, 8-6, tying the World Series at 2 games apiece. A1
 
The Home Section C1-12
Warrior architect wrestles his demons. C1
At home with Dr. Joycelyn Elders C1
 
Obituaries B13
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
Editorials
Vote yes on the bond act.
New face of Europe's far right.
Mr. Murdoch's rage.
Letters
William Safire: The dumbest answers.
Maureen Dowd: Almost tragic.
James R. Lilley: Nationalism bites back.
Robert M. Fields: Pension parity.
 
Chronicle D28 Bridge C20 Crossword C20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: RRD (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (52%); NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (52%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (52%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MONGOLIA (92%); SPAIN (92%); IRAQ (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); POLAND (91%); FRANCE (79%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: R R DONNELLEY & SONS CO (52%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MONGOLIA (92%); SPAIN (92%); IRAQ (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); POLAND (91%); FRANCE (79%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOLOCAUST (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); GENOCIDE (89%); FIRES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); ELECTIONS (77%); COUPS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); JUDGES (72%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%); RACE & RACISM (61%); HYPERTENSION (60%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (50%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); JACQUES CHIRAC (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



572 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Vetoes Bill That Would Let Solar Panels Earn Credits on Energy Bills

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 23

 BODY:
Siding with the state's electricity industry, Gov. George E. Pataki has vetoed legislation that would have allowed homeowners with solar panels on their roofs to send power back to their utility company and get credit on their electric bills.
In a statement today, the Governor said he supported the intent of the bill but was concerned about what he called inadequate safety standards in the measure. 
 But the veto, done on Friday and announced today, angered environmentalists, who regarded the bill as a key step toward encouraging New Yorkers to use a safer and cleaner form of energy. They dismissed Mr. Pataki's questions about safety as simply an excuse to kill a measure that utility companies had opposed for financial reasons.
Mr. Pataki ordered his staff to submit a new bill, saying that he would attempt to build consensus on the issue between the utility industry and the environmental community.
"This veto should not be viewed by solar advocates as an unfavorable commentary on the solar industry," the Governor said. "I believe solar power should be an important and larger component of our energy supply."
The veto illustrates the quandary the Governor faces as he tries to bolster his image as a friend of the environment without alienating powerful business organizations and his other traditional Republican supporters.
He has already angered conservative anti-tax groups over his decision to add to the state's debt by lobbying on behalf of a $1.75 billion bond act to pay for environmental cleanup projects across the state.
The bill vetoed by the Governor today would have allowed owners of single-family homes to install solar cells on their rooftops and run their electric meters backward to send spare electricity back to their utility companies. Thus the homeowners could have seen their electric bills drop to zero or even register a credit with their utility company.
Only 30,000 homeowners would have been allowed to take advantage of the measure, which would have limited the amount of power produced by households to no more than one-tenth of one percent of New York's total power supply. Still, energy experts argued that the measure could lure a solar-cell manufacturer to the state, cut pollution and help avert blackouts during peak hours of power use.
But the state's electric industry had been pressuring the Governor not to sign the bill. They argued that it would unfairly benefit wealthier homeowners who are able to invest the $10,000 to $30,000 it costs to install such a system, which typically is used to supplement power bought from a utility company.
They also said it would in effect force utilities to buy solar-generated power at the same retail price that they charge their customers. As a result, they said, other customers would have to absorb the cost of buying the premium-priced power.
Today, industry executives praised the Mr. Pataki's veto. "That bill was a mistake," said Howard Shapiro, president of the Energy Association of New York, a lobbying group for the state's power producers. "It would have been a Government imposed burden on ratepayer."
Still, the Governor said his main problem with the bill was that it did not provide adequate guidelines for the installation, testing and monitoring of the solar-energy systems -- an argument that was also made by the utility industry but rejected by environmentalists and other experts.
Mr. Pataki said that this posed a grave threat to utility workers who could, for example, be injured while repairing downed power lines that suddenly receive a burst of electricity from a solar cell mounted on someone's home.
"I am not convinced that this bill completely addresses the paramount issue of safety for those who would be required to repair these systems after a power outage," he said. "Despite this bill's admirable purpose and my support generally for renewable energy sources, I cannot sign this legislation in light of the safety concerns."
But environmentalists said the Governor had seized on this issue as a pretext to veto the legislation. They noted that the safety standards in the bill are nationally recognized and are in fact established by the National Electrical Code and the Underwriters Laboratories.
"I think there was a lot of pressure from the utility industry and he bowed to that pressure," said Larry Shapiro, an environmental specialist with the New York Public Interest Research Group. "The safety argument was bogus."
Still, environmentalists and one of the bill's sponsors, Steven Englebright, a Democrat from Long Island, said they would work to address the Governor's concerns and resubmit the legislation.
"There's no safety issue," said Ashok Gupta, a Manhattan-based economist with the Natural Resources Defense Council and an author of the legislation. "But to the extent that there is the perception of a safety issue, we will address it and get this bill passed and signed."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VETOES (US); SOLAR ENERGY VETO (94%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); SOLAR ENERGY (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (71%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (71%); BONDS (71%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELL MFG (63%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



573 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: History Puts a Sharp Focus on Afghans' Plight

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your reporting from remote areas of Afghanistan has been outstanding. An Oct. 22 news article notes that Ahmad Shah Massoud, the leader of a force seeking to regain control of the country from the Muslim force known as the Taliban, was "one of the better educated of the guerrilla commanders who drove Soviet forces from Afghanistan." While accurate, this is an understatement. 
 Mr. Massoud is an engineer. When I visited Pakistan in 1989, I met with several teams of Afghan engineers engaged in rebuilding areas of their country that had been liberated from the Soviet forces. I reviewed their plans in an effort to advise the United States Agency for International Development on assistance for reconstruction in Afghanistan.
As I examined the drawings for repair and replacement of roads, bridges, hospitals, schools and mosques, I noted that each drawing had received final approval from Mr. Massoud. While engaged as a battlefield commander and military strategist, Mr. Massoud was also a leader in establishing priorities and programs for his country's rebirth.
In addition, your reporting on the oppression of women by the Taliban has brought this tyranny to the attention of the American public.
In 1965 Afghanistan shared the values of the United Nations on women's rights. Kabul University not only welcomed women students but also built a women's dormitory so that women could obtain higher education in all fields, including law and medicine.
It was five years later that women students appeared in my classroom in New Jersey. Seen in this historical perspective, oppression of women by the Taliban is even more poignant.
 
EDWARD A. FRIEDMAN
Hoboken, N.J., Oct. 22, 1996
 
The writer, a professor of management at Stevens Institute of Technology, was a visiting professor at Kabul University from 1965 to 1967.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

COMPANY: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN; AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (75%); CIVIL WAR (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); WRITERS (73%); RELIGION (72%); WOMEN (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); HISTORY (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); APPROVALS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, EDWARD A AHMAD SHAH MASSOUD (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996



574 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 2950 words

HEADLINE: Woodstock: Old-Time New-Age Karma

BYLINE: By JON PARELES 

 BODY:
BACK in the 1980's, I was walking down a street in Woodstock when a Volkswagen microbus pulled over and the scraggly haired driver asked, "Can you tell me where the rock festival was?"
At the time, I was in Woodstock, England. 
 The Woodstock festival of 1969, and its 25th-anniversary sequel in 1994, didn't happen in Woodstock, N.Y., either. The first one was in White Lake, N.Y., 60 miles away in Sullivan County; the second one was closer to Woodstock, in the neighboring Ulster County town of Saugerties. Yet a hippie mythos still clings to Woodstock itself, where my wife and I recently spent a long weekend.
Tucked among bucolic and sometimes spectacular Catskill scenery, with a full-time population of 6,290 (as of the 1990 census), Woodstock is the counterculture's country retreat, where the upstate woodlands meet the New Age. It's a haven of hearth-baked bread, folk-rock on the local radio station (WDST, at 100.1 and 96.9 FM), art galleries, artisans and spiritual seekers. Under houses of worship, a Chamber of Commerce brochure lists not only the Dutch Reformed Church but also a Tibetan Buddhist monastery. Among the various "Welcome to Woodstock" stickers at local stores, one reads, "If you lived here, you'd be Om now."
Yet despite its legendary name and a century of experience as a tourist magnet, Woodstock remains a friendly, close-knit small town. There is no traffic light at Woodstock's main intersection, where Tinker Street meets Rock City Road, and the cluster of stores stretches just a few blocks.
On a recent Friday afternoon, before the weekend influx from New York City, Tinker Street was populated by women without makeup and men with ponytails. People in their 20's and people in their 50's all wore the ponchos and fringed buckskin, patched jeans and embroidered shirts of the international peasant-wear economy. Running shoes were the only sign of the 1990's. Still, the shoe store in the center of town featured Birkenstocks.
Woodstock drew utopian free thinkers long before the 1960's. During the 19th century, according to Alf Evers's comprehensive "Woodstock: History of an American Town" (Overlook Press, 1987; $39.50), it was an industrious (and none too environmentally conscious) hamlet, logging hemlock trees from the Catskill mountainsides and using the bark to tan leather.
In 1902, a wealthy Englishman, Ralph Radcliffe Whitehead, started an arts colony, Byrdcliffe. To realize the ideals of the Arts and Crafts movement, it would produce old-fashioned handmade goods and run a summer arts school. Handicrafts couldn't support Byrdcliffe, but painters, potters, musicians, weavers and actors had discovered Woodstock.
The Art Students League, based in Manhattan, opened a Woodstock summer school in 1906, and other groups of artists soon followed. The Maverick colony, just across the town line, drew social reformers, visual artists and performers and presented summer festivals from 1915 to 1931, the real Woodstock festivals. In 1921, factions of the Communist Party convened at the Overlook Mountain House hotel and united as the Communist Party of America. Through the 1920's, artists, theater people and the tourists who arrived to gawk at them kept Woodstock thriving.
Rockers arrived later, when Bob Dylan and the Band settled upstate in the late 1960's and recorded "Music From Big Pink" and "The Basement Tapes." Other musicians, including a jazz contingent, are still in the hills, descending to play rock at the Tinker Street Cafe or the Joyous Lake, the town's two rock clubs, or jazz at the intimate auditorium of the Kleinert/James Arts Center. Well-known bands like Phish record albums in the wooded privacy of Bearsville Studios.
We visited the Woodstock Historical Society, which displayed a newspaper clipping from 1929, headlined "Nude Bathing Parties Offend." An exhibition of paintings by Woodstock artists included a striking self-portrait from the early 1930's by Petra Cabot: a young woman with a modish black hat and a confident gaze. A woman with long white hair walked in and told the caretaker, "I must have that painting, so I can photograph it." It was Ms. Cabot, who smiled as she looked at her self-assured 21-year-old self. "Oh, we had some great times," she said.
Woodstock, we kept realizing, is a place unto itself. It is a town where the biggest, pushiest crowd we saw was the one that mobbed the biweekly Saturday-morning used-book sale at the library. We had been told about it by the proprietor of Readers' Quarry, a small but well-organized used bookstore. "If I see you there," she said, "I won't be able to talk. I'll be too busy."

Peace and Apples
One attraction during our weekend visit was the town's "harvest festival." Like other town fairs, it had a local apple farmer demonstrating an antique cider press. But being Woodstock, it also started with a "peace ceremony," a parade of schoolchildren with assorted national flags. A man walked by wearing a crystal the size of a dill pickle around his neck; a teen-ager had a saucepan for a hat. On the outdoor stage, the group Women Who Drum followed a Hebrew blessing with a Seneca peace prayer.
We picked up The Woodstock Journal, a weekly paper run by Ed Sanders that prints the local police blotter (with regular marijuana-possession arrests) and poetry along with muckraking. Mr. Sanders, now an author and historian, was a prime mover in the zoning laws that keep Woodstock green; in the 1960's, he founded the folk-rock provocateurs the Fugs, whose song title "Refuse to Be Burnt Out" provides the paper's watchwords.
The paper announced that it would celebrate a move to new offices with an exhibition of paintings by Alf Evers, whose book we had been consulting. The paintings are Depression-era scenes of a rural Woodstock and of Mr. Evers's travels; a label on a Bermuda landscape read, "Notice the pink sand." Mr. Evers, now in his 90's, and Mr. Sanders were surrounded by well-wishers at the opening. On the doorstep, a woman was exclaiming: "He's not just a writer! Everyone has multiple personalities!"
At Bread Alone, the Woodstock outlet for a bakery in nearby Boiceville, we could easily distinguish unhurried Woodstockers from the jostling weekenders who mobbed the place on Saturday morning. We tried the organic breakfast tea and substantial currant scones; on a return visit, we picked up a flourless chocolate torte, rich but not overly sweet. A sign in the bathroom read: "This note is sincerely addressed to the person stealing the posters off the bathroom walls. Please stop! If you have any regrets, you're forgiven. Enjoy the art and please don't take any more posters."
Down the block is Pieces of Mine, which sells stones and crystals; its advertisement promised consultations.
"What are you drawn to?" asked the woman at the counter. "What you are drawn to is what you need." We picked red tiger eye, jade, amethyst and turquoise. The woman smiled. "You've covered almost all seven chakras," she said. "You just need something yellow."
"I was just looking at the amber," my wife said.
"It looks like a higher power has directed you," the woman said. Quickly, she added: "I don't mean to say that you're not responsible for your decisions. It's your own higher power from within that has guided you."

All for the Spirit
Mirabai Books, one of the five bookstores in town, concentrates on spiritual and New Age books. One bookcase covers a full cycle: "Death and Dying," "Reincarnation" and "Channeling." We looked into Dharmaware, which sells Buddhist items. An employee with his dreadlocks looped into a topknot was busy moving merchandise between storefronts. "We're in a state of transformation," he said. Nearby was the Tibetan Emporium; as we walked in, the proprietor was chanting along with a CD of monks.
The emporium is run by the director of Karma Triyana Dharmachakra monastery, a traditional Tibetan Buddhist temple built in the 1980's. We drove up Meads Mountain Road to see the impressive white-and-red temple, with its multicolored floral ornaments, and happened onto the daily tour.
"Nothing here is for decorative purposes," the guide said, taking us through the main temple, with its bright banners, golden statues and embroidered pictures of saints, all of them sewn by the temple's abbot. "Everything here has a spiritual meaning behind it."
We wished we had worn thick socks; we took off our shoes before entering the temple, and the floors grew cold during the tour. The guide invited people to come back for the regular prayers at 5 A.M. and 5 and 7 P.M. Forgoing materialism, she didn't mention the center's bookstore and gift shop.
Across the street was the path up Overlook Mountain, renowned for the view from 3,140 feet. The trail ascends about two miles on a steady upward grade to the hulk of the Overlook Mountain House, the third hotel on the same site. Affixed to the concrete walls, eroding photographs and documents (all biodegradable, a sign said) describe the three attempts to maintain a luxury hotel on the slope, all commercial failures; all three burned down.
Past the hotel site, the main trail leads to a former fire-observatory tower; the stairway to the second story has been removed, but intrepid types still climb the scaffolding for the view above the trees. A narrower path, to the right after the hotel ruins, heads along a ridge and offers a clearer view, with a silvery ribbon of the Hudson River, forested hillsides and the gleaming Ashokan Reservoir below.
James Fenimore Cooper, writing before the reservoir was created, declared, "It is a spot to make a man solemnize."
Up Meads Mountain Road from the monastery is the Magic Meadow, a Woodstock landmark now mired in small-town controversy. Some Woodstockers had made a ritual of going to the meadow to greet the full moon. But the meadow is on private property, and to discourage moonstruck trespassers, the town put up "No Parking" signs. Claiming an infringement of religious freedom, people who received parking tickets took the case to court, where it remains. We looked at the meadow by daylight; it is a neatly mowed clearing with a peaceful pond.
There was more mountain scenery to explore. Cold Brook Road, from Woodstock to Boiceville, snaked through a valley with fields and mountains on one side. And when we picked up "Hiking the Catskills" (New York-New Jersey Trail Conference, 1989; $14.95) at the Bookmart, the thoughtful owner was ready to suggest her favorite walks.
As we were tired from our Overlook climb, she suggested a spectacular drive, climbing Platte Clove Road through Saugerties to Tannersville, and back via Main Street in Tannersville and Route 214 to Route 28. The road's hairpin curves keep it closed from November to April.
We spent nights at two different bed-and-breakfasts. The Woodstock Country Inn -- on a secluded road in Bearsville, part of Woodstock Township -- is in a house built by an artist, Jo Cantine, whose luminous portraits and tropical landscapes still decorate the walls. Our room was whitewashed and uncluttered, with wicker furniture and a firm, comfortable bed; it had a view of the surrounding hills.
The innkeeper, Carol Wandrey, has lived in Woodstock for 27 years; she was a fount of information on everything from visiting rockers to good places to stroll. And she introduced us to the web of small-town connections. Jo Cantine's grandson owns the Bear Cafe, generally considered the best restaurant in town.
Like so much else in Woodstock, the Bear has touches of the home-grown and the internationalist. It's a high-ceilinged place with one windowed wall looking out over the Sawkill Brook. Its bread, baked by someone named Heather, is like the ideal grandmother: crusty on the outside, tender within. The mixed green salad was organic and very fresh, and we followed it with noodle dishes from disparate cultures: udon noodles with shredded vegetables in a complex, spicy broth, and penne with grilled vegetables in a portobello broth. Dinner for two was about $55. The Bear eclipsed the other local restaurants we visited.
For our last night in Ulster County, we moved to the Onteora Mountain House in Boiceville. Richard Hellmann, the mayonnaise mogul, retired to the mountainside lodge at the age of 50 on a doctor's advice and lived for 44 more years. Built on Mount Ticetonyk, it faces a panorama of mountains stretching into the distance, with the sunset framed by distant hills.
Its owners have filled its Arts and Crafts interior with Korean antiques, making it more formal than the Woodstock Country Inn; a painting of the Buddha and his disciples was at the head of our bed. The lodge's original pool table, with Mission-style legs, is in a downstairs game room. Breakfast was eggs Hellmann, a high-cholesterol construction of an English muffin, spinach, poached eggs and, of course, mayonnaise. "Our sponsor," the innkeeper said.
For dinner, we tried a place where it seemed as if the 1960's had never happened. La Duchesse Anne, a French restaurant in the former Mount Tremper Inn, has a player piano by the bar, stocked with James P. Johnson and Fats Waller classics. For dinner, we enjoyed a cotriade, a Breton fish soup with tomato and a hint of cream, and a grilled trout in sorrel sauce, neither in the least multicultural and both satisfying. We declined the foot-high napoleons on the pastry cart. Dinner for two was about $50.
On the way home, we made two stops. One was the Sunfrost Farms in Woodstock for local apples (at $2.99 a peck) and Bosc pears (99 cents a pound); it also runs a juice bar and stocks foods like olive spread (black and green) and maitake (hen of the woods) mushrooms.
 
Sampling Ice Cream
And in Kingston, we visited the headquarters of Jane's Homemade Ice Cream. We had sampled Jane's at Bread Alone and concluded that her Killer Chocolate surpasses any other chocolate ice cream in our experience. At the main store, we asked if it was sold anywhere in New York City; only, we were told, at the restaurant at Saks Fifth Avenue.
Our disappointment was tempered by the availability of two dozen other flavors; at $2.55 for two hefty scoops, we chose pumpkin and pralines and cream, both worthwhile, and the remarkable cappuccino Kahlua calypso, with deep espresso flavor and a crunch. The ice cream would speed us back to Manhattan; the apples and pears, over the days to come, would continue to remind us of pastoral surroundings and small-town hospitality.
 
Finding Treats for the Body, Mind and Soul
Here is a listing of places mentioned in the article on the Woodstock, N.Y., area, along with travel information.

Getting There
BY CAR: From Manhattan, take Thomas E. Dewey Thruway to the Kingston exit (Exit 19) and pick up Route 28 West; follow Route 28 West to Route 375 North and take Route 375 North to Route 212 West; continue on Route 212 West, which turns into Tinker Street, the main street in Woodstock.
BY BUS: Adirondack Trailways provides daily bus service to Woodstock from the Port Authority Bus Terminal, Eighth Avenue and 42d Street, Manhattan. Buses depart for the two-and-a-half-hour ride daily at 10 A.M. and 12:30, 3:30 and 5 P.M. Fare: $20 one way, $38 round trip ($10 and $19 for those 11 and younger; free for those 4 and younger who sit on a parent's lap). Information: (800) 225-6815.

Lodging
WOODSTOCK COUNTRY INN, Bearsville, (914) 679-9380. Daily room rates through Nov. 1, based on double occupancy, Fridays to Sundays, $80 (shared bath) to $130 (private bath); Mondays to Thursdays, $70 to $95; after Nov. 1, weekend rates, $70 to $110. Includes breakfast. Two-night minimum stay on weekends. Not recommended for children.
ONTEORA, THE MOUNTAIN HOUSE, 96 Piney Point Road, Boiceville, (914) 657-6233. Daily room rates, based on double occupancy, are $95 (with shared bath) or $135 (with private bath) Fridays to Sundays; and $85 or $125 Mondays to Thursdays. Two-night minimum stay on weekends. Children over 12 welcome. Full breakfast included.

Restaurants
LA DUCHESSE ANNE, Route 212 and Wittenberg Road, Mount Tremper, (914) 688-5260.
THE BEAR CAFE, Bearsville Theater Complex, Route 212, Bearsville, (914) 679-5555.
BREAD ALONE WOODSTOCK, 22 Mill Hill Road, Woodstock, (914) 679-2108.
JANE'S HOMEMADE ICE CREAM AND RESTAURANT, 305 Wall Street, Kingston, (914) 338-8315.

Books
THE BOOKMART, 40 Mill Hill Road, Woodstock, (914) 679-4646.
MIRABAI BOOKS/SACRED SPACE, 23 Mill Hill Road, Woodstock, (914) 679-7819.
READER'S QUARRY, 70 Tinker Street, Woodstock, (914) 679-9572.
WOODSTOCK LIBRARY, 5 Library Lane, at Tinker Street, (914) 679-2213.

Performance
TINKER STREET CAFE, 59 Tinker Street, Woodstock, (914) 679-2487.
THE JOYOUS LAKE, 42 Mill Hill Road, Woodstock, (914) 679-1234.
KLEINERT/JAMES ART CENTER, 34 Tinker Street, Woodstock, (914) 679-2079.

Stores
PIECES OF MINE: A METAPHYSICAL GATEWAY, 7 Maple Lane, Woodstock, (914) 679-4289.
TIBETAN EMPORIUM, Rock City Road, Woodstock, (914) 679-3808.
DHARMAWARE, 54 Tinker Street, Woodstock, (914) 679-3270.

Hiking
OVERLOOK MOUNTAIN, off Meads Mountain Road in Woodstock. Open daily, dawn to dusk. Information: (914) 256-3000.

Local Landmarks
WOODSTOCK HISTORICAL SOCIETY MUSEUM, Comeau Road, off Tinker Street, Woodstock, (914) 679-2256.
KARMA TRIYANA DHARMACHAKRA, 352 Meads Mountain Road, Woodstock, (914) 679-5906.
DUTCH REFORMED CHURCH, 18 Tinker Street, Woodstock, (914) 679-6610.
THE WOODSTOCK JOURNAL, 12 Tannery Brook Road, Woodstock, (914) 679-2969.

Farmers' Market
SUNFROST FARMS, 217 Tinker Street, Woodstock, (914) 679-6690.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In picturesque Woodstock, N.Y.: The Dutch Reformed Church on Tinker Street. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) (pg. C1); A counterculture retreat: The Bread Alone cafe in Woodstock. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) (pg. C29)
 
Map of New York showing the location of Woodstock. (pg. C29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VWA (AMS) (58%); VW (SWX) (58%); VOW (FRA) (58%); VOA (PAR) (58%); VKW (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG (58%); WOODSTOCK HISTORICAL SOCIETY (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: WOODSTOCK HISTORICAL SOCIETY (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WOODSTOCK (NY); UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (87%); TRENDS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (73%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (73%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); SHOE STORES (70%); CENSUS (70%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (67%); MUSIC (67%); FOOTWEAR (66%); RELIGION (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (57%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%); 

PERSON: PARELES, JON

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996



575 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Slumps Against Mark On Outlook for German Rates

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell for the fifth consecutive day against the mark yesterday after German inflation data suggested that Germany's central bank might contemplate a rise in interest rates.
As the dollar fell through important technical levels against the mark more traders began selling dollars, further weakening the currency and raising skepticism about the dollar's longer-term prospects. 
 "The dollar was a little soft," Debra Larsen, assistant vice president for foreign exchange at the New York branch of Commerzbank, said. "Once you get a move like this starting to jeopardize the sentiment, it takes on a life of its own."
Rebounding strength in the mark, an underlying theme in the foreign exchange market all week, also contributed to weakness in the yen, Swiss franc and the pound. That indirectly helped leave the dollar mixed against other currencies.
In late New York trading, the dollar was at 1.5170 marks, down from 1.5207 on Wednesday and off 1.6 percent from its four-and-a-half-month high versus the German currency reached on Oct. 17. The dollar has fallen every day against the mark since then.
The dollar cost 112.87 yen, down from 112.93. The pound cost $1.5909, down from $1.5990.
The Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, left interest rates unchanged yesterday at its regular policy making meeting, after some blunt comments by senior Bundesbank officials the day before, suggesting that Germany's four-year trend toward lower rates had ended.
While the Bundesbank's decision was expected, some traders said they were surprised by preliminary October inflation data released by Germany's Federal Statistics Office, which showed the fastest inflation rate in five months.
The mark strengthened on that news, partly on the presumption that the Bundesbank might raise rates if it concluded that the higher inflation rate was a trend.
Other late dollar rates yesterday in New York compared with those late on Wednesday were: 1.2548 Swiss francs, up from 1.2530; 5.1227 French francs, down from 5.1385; 1,524.00 Italian lire, down from 1,527.50, and 1.3455 Canadian dollars, up from 1.3436.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (58%); CBK (FRA) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (88%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK AG (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (88%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRENDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996



576 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: About Real Estate;
When Lawyer and Co-op Board Clash

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
What happens when a seasoned real estate lawyer -- a man the trial judge called "aggressive" and "savvy" -- takes on his own co-op board?
If the decision rendered earlier this month by Judge Martin Shulman of the Civil Court in Manhattan stands, he loses -- badly. 
 Not only was Steven R. Lapidus, a shareholder at 1050 Park Avenue, ordered to pay the $43,834 he had withheld after a maintenance increase and a special assessment for masonry repairs, but he has now been ordered to pay an additional $398,342, including interest, in legal fees that the co-op board ran up over the four years of litigation.
Although Mr. Lapidus was ordered earlier this month to pay the base amount of the co-op's legal fees, he did not find out the exact amount until yesterday, when the same parties went to court -- again before Judge Shulman -- to fight over the amount of interest, set yesterday at $62,005. Reached yesterday afternoon, Mr. Lapidus vowed to appeal the entire amount of legal fees.
"The judgment was wrong," he said, referring to the amount that Judge Shulman had decided to assess him and his wife, Iris, to pay the co-op's legal fees. "It's contrary to law, among other things. Reasonable attorneys' fees do not include three lawyers doing the work of one."
To Mr. Lapidus, the whole struggle -- for which the co-op board's lawyers billed 2,032.8 hours over four years -- demonstrates "the arrogance of co-op boards."
To Stuart M. Saft, a real estate lawyer who is chairman of the Council of New York Cooperatives, the decision sets a precedent that will deter lawyers who live in co-ops and condominiums from going to court with their co-op boards.
"This happens a lot," Mr. Saft said. "Probably the most contentious cases are with attorneys who live in co-ops, because they know how the system works and they can use their own in-house legal services so it doesn't cost them anything, and can enter into endless litigation to wear the co-op boards down."
In his decision on the award of legal fees, issued earlier this month, Judge Shulman wrote of Mr. Lapidus's actions that "every conceivable motion was made to delay or derail the underlying proceeding" and he found that "Lapidus's aggressive defense tactics at every stage were implicitly designed to economically force the co-op to its knees."
Yesterday, Gerald Tanenbaum, president of the board at 1050 Park and also a lawyer, said that the case was important because "it went to the economic viability of the co-op." Mr. Tanenbaum said the board had tried many times -- "before the litigation commenced and at various stages" -- to negotiate the issues but that the board could not come to terms with Mr. Lapidus.
"You know, co-ops are somewhat different than tenements," said Mr. Tanenbaum, who has been board president since 1992, a year before the suit was brought against Mr. Lapidus for nonpayment. "We're a luxury Park Avenue co-op, at 87th and Park, a building built in the 1920's with 61 apartments, lovely apartments -- what you'd expect, with a 24-hour doorman."
"But you'd never know that by reading the court papers," he said.
According to Mr. Lapidus's initial argument as to why he should not pay maintenance (he also refused to pay an assessment of $13,415 for exterior masonry repairs), his apartment at 1050 Park Avenue was plagued, not only by roaches and rodents, but by "excessive heat, odors emanating from a neighboring apartment, cracks in the wall, noise from the upstairs apartment, asbestos, moisture seeping through the walls and a lack of window guards."
In addition, according to an initial judgment by Judge Marilyn Shafer of the Housing Court, the Lapiduses contended that their furniture was damaged by fireplace soot and that the common areas were in disrepair, "including cracks in the ceilings, peeling paint and a rip in the bench of the elevator."
In April 1993, Judge Shafer found that the court "simply does not believe" that the Lapiduses properly notified the board of the conditions and also found that any problems in the common areas were only "cosmetic" and did not have an impact on the building's habitability.
Mr. Lapidus appealed both Judge Shafer's ruling and Judge Arlene Kahn's later ruling that the Lapiduses were liable to pay the co-op's legal fees. He lost both appeals.
Luise Barrack, a partner at the law firm of Rosenberg & Estis, handling the case for the co-op board, said she hoped yesterday's decision would end the case, but noted that Mr. Lapidus had vowed to appeal further -- and pointed out that would only generate more legal bills.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT REAL ESTATE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (90%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (90%); CO-OP '82 UA (90%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (90%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (90%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (90%); CO-OP STAR RT (90%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (90%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (90%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (90%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (90%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES; SUITS AND LITIGATION REAL ESTATE (92%); JUDGES (91%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE HOURS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (62%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE; SHULMAN, MARTIN (JUDGE); LAPIDUS, STEVEN R STEVEN R LAPIDUS (94%); MARTIN SHULMAN (69%); MARILYN SHAFER (59%); GERALD TANENBAUM (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996



577 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 38; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Wrong Time to Expand NATO

 BODY:
Expanding NATO into Central and Eastern Europe may be a popular idea in the Midwest and other parts of the country with large numbers of ethnic voters. President Clinton told an audience in Detroit this week that he would press for the admission of some new NATO members by 1999. Bob Dole favors expansion by 1998.
But good politics does not necessarily make good foreign policy. Bringing countries like Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic into the NATO alliance before the end of this decade risks making the United States and Europe less secure rather than more so. 
 The key to consolidating peace in Europe lies not in expanding NATO but in encouraging Russia to live in harmony with its neighbors and accept deep negotiated reductions in its nuclear arsenal.
The new democracies of Central and Eastern Europe understandably see NATO membership as a way of ratifying their return to the larger European community after more than four decades of Moscow-enforced separation. Americans want to see these countries reintegrated into European life. But a security alliance is the wrong mechanism.
The NATO candidates also see membership as an insurance policy against any revival of the Russian military power that subjugated them for so long. But for now there is no Russian military threat. Expanding NATO is as likely to provoke Moscow's hostility as it is to deter it.
Admitting new members would rashly commit America to the armed, and potentially nuclear, defense of the newcomers. It would saddle American and European taxpayers with heavy new costs to bring existing forces up to NATO standards. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that these costs could run as high as $125 billion over a 15-year period. NATO expansion would divide rather than unite Europe, creating new security frontiers that would initially exclude some of the new Eastern European nations, like the Baltic countries.
Worst of all, it would feed defensive nationalism and opposition to arms control in Russia, compromising rather than enhancing European security. Expanding NATO will complicate ratification by the Russian Parliament of the already negotiated Start II agreement, which would reduce Russian long-range nuclear weapons from 6,000 to a maximum of 3,500, and will make it difficult for any Russian leader to negotiate further strategic arms reduction agreements.
NATO began in 1949 as a way to contain Soviet power during the cold war. It committed American combat troops and nuclear weapons to the defense of Europe, offsetting Moscow's advantage in conventional forces. NATO kept Western Europe stable and secure. The bonds of military cooperation it has formed on both sides of the Atlantic are too valuable to dissolve. But there is no logic in rushing to expand an alliance that is still in search of a new purpose.
The European Union, not NATO, should take the lead in incorporating Europe's new democracies into the Continental community. It can assist their continuing transformation into market economies and offer incentives to keep them on the path of political democracy and individual freedom.
The wise way for the West to consolidate its victory in the cold war is not to drive Russia into an aggrieved corner, but to try to engage it in a just and durable peace. If Moscow shows signs of again threatening its neighbors, there will be ample time to expand NATO. Until then, there is no reason to rush ahead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); POLAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; POLAND; HUNGARY; CZECH REPUBLIC; RUSSIA; EUROPE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); POLAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); INSURANCE POLICIES (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); ARMED FORCES (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996



578 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Vickrey's Zeal Remembered At Columbia Memorial Service

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
What excited William Vickrey the most when he won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science earlier this month was not the personal fame or fortune that came with the prize, but the platform it provided to sell his ideas about how economics can improve society.
His death three days later cut short that opportunity, but friends, colleagues and students picked up that mantle yesterday at a memorial service for the Columbia University economics professor. About 200 of them gathered in St. Paul's Chapel, just across from Professor Vickrey's book-crammed office, to recall the man and his commitment to economic justice through a progressive income tax or full employment. 
 "Bill was a moral economist," said David Colander, a professor at Middlebury College in Vermont who worked under Professor Vickrey as a graduate student. "He said what we had to do was make the economy better and society better."
While Professor Vickrey is known best for his work in setting prices in ways that would make highways and subways less congested and auctions more efficient -- work that he produced 30 or 40 years ago that was recognized by the Nobel Prize committee -- his chief preoccupation in the last decade or so was unemployment.
Sumner Rosen, a retired Columbia professor, said that of all the seminars that Professor Vickrey attended in almost 60 years at the university, the only one to which he was willing to give his name as co-chairman was a seminar on full employment that has continued to meet for about a decade.
"Full employment was Bill Vickrey's central passion in recent years," Professor Rosen said. "When he gave his presidential address at the American Economic Association a few years ago, he said that full employment ought to be the top priority of public policy. And on this, as on other issues, he cared not at all what others thought."
That willingness to depart from what others thought was a constant throughout his life, speakers said. Professor Colander of Middlebury recalled that during the full-employment speech, a person near him turned to his neighbor and asked whether Professor Vickrey was "cuckoo." But while other economists said that unemployment could not drop below 5 or 6 percent because of the way the economy was structured, Professor Vickrey wanted to change the structure, Professor Colander said.
'I always wanted to see that an idea was semipolitically reasonable," he added. "Mr. Vickrey never had that concern."
Other speakers remarked that while some of Professor Vickrey's ideas that seemed outlandish decades ago -- like setting different toll prices for cars going through tunnels or using city streets depending on how much congestion there was at the time -- it turned out that they were simply ahead of their time, in part because of his insight into areas like technology.
"He proposed a system of graduated rates for transit fares that was ridiculed at the time," said C. Lowell Harriss, an emeritus professor of economics at Columbia, referring to an early Vickrey idea that has since become a reality in some cities. "I remember his saying the technology was at the frontier -- and he was right."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES AWARDS & PRIZES (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); AUCTIONS (72%); INCOME TAX (55%); 

PERSON: VICKREY, WILLIAM WILLIAM VICKREY (97%); DAVID COLANDER (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996



579 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: Pocketbook Issues Are Focus in New Jersey

 BODY:
The New Jersey race may be one of the most combative in the nation, but to followers of the state's political history, that should come as no surprise. Yesterday, both candidates gravitated toward economic issues. 
 Representative Richard A. Zimmer said his Democratic opponent's failure to end certain price supports had made consumer goods more expensive. And Representative Robert G. Torricelli sought support from elderly voters, attending a rally at a senior center and releasing an advertisement attacking his foe for voting to contain the growth of Medicare.
Articles, page B5.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (85%); MEDICARE (83%); VOTERS & VOTING (83%); 

PERSON: ROBERT G TORRICELLI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996



580 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: New Times Square Tower Lures a Key Tenant

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
Adding the prestige of a major law firm to the renewed glamour of the Times Square area, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom has agreed to lease space in a new building to be constructed on Broadway between 42d and 43d Streets.
The firm's lawyers and staff are scheduled to move from their present location at Third Avenue and 56th Street in the spring of 2000, according to Douglas Durst, president of the Durst Organization, which is building the 48-story office building on the corner once occupied by Nathan's Famous restaurant. 
 The building at 4 Times Square, to be called the Conde Nast Building after its first tenant, the publishing company, is the first speculative office tower to be started in Manhattan in more than a decade. Several buildings built north of Times Square in the mid-1980's failed financially in the weak office market at the end of the decade, although they are largely occupied today.
Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the State Department of Economic Development, said the rapid leasing of the building, which was first announced in May, was an indication of the recovery of the office market in the city.
Others said the attractiveness of the Durst project was a product of the long building drought. "What this says is how desperate New York is for new construction," said James S. Meiskin, president of the Plymouth Partners office brokerage. "There are so few blocks of space in midtown of the size that they need in midtown, that Skadden Arps had little choice but to move to the West Side."
Benjamin Needell, the head of Skadden Arps's real estate practice, said the firm chose the Times Square building because it was new, close to transportation hubs and in a revitalized neighborhood.
Skadden Arps has agreed to lease 660,000 square feet of space on the 21 upper floors of the building. Conde Nast had previously signed to lease 585,000 square feet on the lower floors of the 1.6-million-square-foot building. Mr. Durst described the remainder as "expansion space for our tenants." The first three floors will be devoted to shops and restaurants, although no tenants have been announced. Mr. Durst said the retail part of the building is expected to open in time for the Christmas season in 1998, with Conde Nast scheduled to move in in the spring of 1999.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NATH (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (95%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (95%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SKADDEN, ARPS, SLATE, MEAGHER & FLOM; CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (95%); NATHAN'S FAMOUS INC (57%); DURST ORGANIZATION (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: SKADDEN, ARPS, SLATE, MEAGHER & FLOM; CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC DURST ORGANIZATION (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); CITY LIFE (71%); PUBLISHING (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); RETAILERS (60%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: DOUGLAS DURST (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996



581 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE STRATEGY;
No Easy Explanations For Dole's Perot Gambit

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Since early summer, the season of promise when political hopes bloom along with the roses, Bob Dole has been trying to do something -- anything -- to alter the shape of a Presidential campaign whose basic configuration has not changed since the end of the primary elections.
Shaking off his innate caution and conservatism, he resigned from the Senate, his political home and power base, to no visible effect. He embraced supply-side economics, which he had always disdained, to no visible effect, and added Jack Kemp, the supply-side guru, as a running mate. He all but abandoned his campaign in the Middle Atlantic and the industrial Midwest, the traditional battlegrounds, in favor of a new effort in California, to no visible effect. 
 Now, like a man with his hands stuck in taffy, he has made yet another abrupt effort to wrench himself free from impending defeat: an appeal, quickly rebuffed, to Ross Perot to abandon his candidacy on the Reform ticket.
It appears to have hurt more than it helped, as have some of Mr. Dole's earlier gambits. Political professionals readily concede that he faced a tough fight in any event, confronted as he was with an notably malleable Democratic President who adopted many policies fashioned by Republicans. But they think Mr. Dole's effort to refashion his political persona has made it even tougher.
"He was doomed from the minute he decided that he had to run as someone other than Bob Dole of Kansas, the Senate majority leader," said Peter Hart, the Democratic pollster and strategist, and few insiders disagree.
With little more than 10 days of campaigning left, it is not surprising that Mr. Dole has reached the point where urgent if not desperate measures suggest themselves. He trails Bill Clinton by 22 percentage points, 55 to 33, in the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, published on Tuesday. In California, target of his latest do-or-die effort, a Los Angeles Times poll shows Mr. Clinton's job approval rating at 60 percent, the highest since he took office.
And every single member of a panel of political consultants assembled by The Hotline, a political news service, said this week that they expected Mr. Clinton to win -- every single Democrat and every single Republican, too.
But if it is easy to see why Mr. Dole felt he had to take action, it is harder to see why he decided to send his campaign manager, Scott Reed, to Dallas to try to persuade the fiercely independent Mr. Perot to fold his tent. Perhaps it was the advocacy of Mr. Reed, who has a reputation as a political gambler.
Senator Connie Mack of Florida, a staunch Dole backer, was one of the few Republicans who ventured a theory. Without audible fervor, Mr. Mack said, "Any time you can pick up a few points here or there it's worth the effort."
Indeed, in Mr. Mack's state and in Texas, two of the four most populous states, late polls suggest that if Mr. Dole could pick up the votes of all the voters who currently support Mr. Perot that might be enough to swing the states safely into the Republican column. Mr. Dole leads narrowly in Texas, and Mr. Clinton narrowly in Florida; Mr. Perot is at about 6 percent in each.
But there was no known reason for Mr. Dole to expect that Mr. Perot would quit the race after having laboriously and expensively won a position on the ballot in all 50 states for his fledgling party. To do so would not only deprive him of the limelight he so enjoys but would doom the Reform Party before it had contested its first election.
Mr. Perot is faced with the prospect of polling less than 10 percent of the vote on Nov. 5, less than half of the 19 percent he took in 1992. But the feisty Texan is not one to shrink from long odds.
And despite the disingenuous comment of Elizabeth Dole on television on Wednesday night to the effect that the Perots and the Doles were good friends, Mr. Perot was infuriated when the Republican nominee sought successfully to have him excluded from this year's Presidential debates. He is still angry.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Perot today dismissed the effort to get him out of the race as an absurdity that was completely irrelevant to the campaign.
Even if Mr. Perot, for reasons unknown, had decided to stand aside in Mr. Dole's favor, there is no reason to suppose his backers would have followed him, sheep-like, into the Dole camp. They support Mr. Perot, after all, because they have already weighed the major-party candidates and found them wanting.
And even if Mr. Perot had wanted his name off the ballot, in many states he could not have accomplished that. In some the deadline for withdrawal has passed and in others, little short of death can remove a name from the ballot.
Finally, there are strategic considerations. A Presidential candidate who trails badly entering the final days of a campaign has one supreme task: convincing the electorate that he still has a chance, can still catch up, is still worth supporting. If he cannot do that, many of his backers will stay at home, which is why politicians seldom concede that they are about to lose.
What Mr. Dole did in dispatching Mr. Reed to Dallas makes that job a great deal harder for him, and cannot help others on the Republican ticket.
Although some Republicans suggested that Mr. Dole had intended to keep the approach a secret and had been victimized by a leak, many more characterized the whole enterprise as a fool's errand and argued that no one could have thought something so startling could be kept quiet at the peak of a campaign.
"He didn't quite sign his own death certificate with that little maneuver," a Republican state chairman in the Midwest said, "but he certainly told the whole world how sick his campaign is.
"I'm sure he did it in good faith. But in this part of the world Dole is 15 points down and Perot has only 5 percent, so it's hard to see what we gain, and our House candidates are in agony." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: REFORM PARTY LOS ANGELES TIMES (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: REFORM PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; THIRD-PARTY MOVEMENTS (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; DOLE, BOB; PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (78%); CONNIE MACK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996



582 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
U.S. Bond Prices Decline On Drop in Jobless Claims

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities fell yesterday, after a sharp drop in weekly jobless claims pointed to persistent strength in the nation's labor markets.
The drop in new jobless claims set the tone in the market from the outset, and prices were unable to recover despite reports that the Federal Reserve was buying short-maturity Treasuries for the second consecutive session. 
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 22/32 , to 9822/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.85 percent from 6.83 percent on Wednesday. The two-year note closed down 29/32 , to yield 5.93 percent.
The Labor Department reported that first-time claims for state unemployment benefits fell by a hefty 22,000 in the week ended Oct. 19, to 320,000, from 342,000 the previous week. It was the lowest since claims touched 317,000 during the week ended Aug. 31.
The drop took Wall Street economists by surprise and reminded investors that the labor market remains tight, which could mean upward pressure on wages and prices.
"We know the labor market is pretty strong, and the claims number reminded us of that," said Josh Feinman, vice president and global markets economist at Bankers Trust. "It was a holiday week so the data might be a little tougher to read but there's no question that the labor market is still strong."
In addition to the Columbus Day holiday, economists said the ripple effects of the recent strike by Canadian auto workers against General Motors in Canada also might have had an impact on the data.
Regardless of any distortions, many in the market said they expected claims to bounce back from their low levels next week.
With prices lingering in negative territory in the aftermath of the claims report, traders said the Fed entered the market, buying two-year, three-year and five-year paper.
"It looked like the Fed came in under the table once again and took the market off its lows," said Theodore Ake, senior vice president and senior trader at Everen Securities.
But Mr. Ake said the Fed-induced price rise was fleeting, giving the market little more than a temporary push up from session lows.
Further weighing on the market yesterday was continuing apprehension about coming economic data. The report on September durable goods orders, due today is expected to show a rebound from weak August numbers.
And widely divergent forecasts for the October employment report, due next Friday, have also created some jitters in the market.
"I think there is a lot of nervousness and concern about next week's numbers," said Marilyn Schaja, money market economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
In the corporate bond market, trading revolved around Tele-Communications Inc. as it has every day this week, traders said.
Tele-Communications' debt was hit early after the company said it had told suppliers to stop all shipments until further notice, traders said.
Prices bounced sharply higher after the company said it expected to report that it had third-quarter revenue of $1.648 billion and operating cash flow of $591 million, traders said, but quickly faded below Wednesday's closing levels.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, July to Oct. 1996. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES JOBLESS CLAIMS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (72%); DURABLE GOODS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

PERSON: THEODORE AKE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996



583 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitian Desk 

LENGTH: 56 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
A chart on Monday with the continuation of an article about the economic rebound in New York City misstated the timing of the most recent recession in the city. It began in 1989 and lasted until 1992; it did not occur in 1988. In some editions the chart also misstated the hotel occupancy rate for 1988. It was 75 percent, not 80.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORRECTION STORIES ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); RECESSION (87%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (82%); HOTELS & MOTELS (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996



584 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1744 words

HEADLINE: In an Ohio County, the Issue Is Public Buses, Not the Presidential Race

SERIES: AN AMERICAN PLACE: The Bus Stops Here

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP 

DATELINE: CANTON, Ohio, Oct. 23

 BODY:
The most compelling national issue that the people of Stark County face come Nov. 5 is not, "Who will be President?" (Bill Clinton is looking awfully strong in Stark County.) It is, "Will there be any more public buses here?"
In the last two years, the Republican-led Congress and the Democratic President have been chipping away at big government, scaling back welfare, cutting low-income housing subsidies, reducing some public transit grants. 
 Now, either this county of 370,000 people votes to pass an increase in the county sales tax to replace the lost Federal transit revenue, or the buses stop. Will the people of Stark County assume the Federal Government's role of providing this safety net? Bus riders are not too hopeful.
"Rich won't vote for it," said Donnie Long, a dishwasher, waiting downtown in the early morning darkness to catch the bus to Belden Village, the big suburban mall.
"The other ones who don't ride, don't care," said Larae Wagner, a shipping clerk.
This is no Chicken Little situation. "The system will shut down if the referendum fails," said Susan Eslich, director of the Canton Regional Transit Authority.
Community leaders are pushing for passage and there is no organized opposition, but it is still a hard sell in a county that has a strong anti-tax tradition and is heavily suburban, where cars rule and most people have never ridden a public bus. In March, the same tax referendum for bus service was defeated by a 60-to-40 ratio. A majority of residents in every suburb voted no.
Through the years, the transit service has gone through so many cuts that bus service now stops at 6 P.M. Only 2,000 people ride daily. Jack Thompson, a bus dispatcher with 20 years' experience, puts it this way: "Just about everybody who rides the buses now, has to ride the bus. When I started, people rode for convenience."
The riders are mainly the working poor, the handicapped, the elderly.
Bus riders in Stark County are nearly invisible to the suburban eye, although employers and mall shoppers rely on them. Among the riders this morning on the No. 5 bus, from downtown Canton to the mall in suburban Jackson, were Christina Haueter, a kitchen worker at Shoney's restaurant; Charles Newhouse, a groundskeeper at Forest Hill Cemetery; Mr. Long, a dishwasher at John's Bar and Grille; David Francisco, a stockroom worker at the Target discount store, and Rita McMahon and Raenita Wheeler, telemarketers.
Their lives are already constrained by a bus system that makes pickups only once an hour during much of the day and serves only Canton and a few bordering suburbs.
Monica Moore, a preschool aide, quit taking courses at the local community college, Stark State, because the classes she needed were at night when buses do not run.
"With service stopping so early, I don't have the ability to work overtime," said Brenda Allen, a hospital worker. She takes the bus with her 10-year-old daughter, Ebony, and her 12-year-old son, Elon, who ride to school.
Last summer Mr. Francisco had to be at work at Target at 5 A.M., before the buses start, so he pedaled his bicycle six miles along dark four-lane boulevards like Everhard and Whipple, where cars speed by at 50 miles an hour.
Kevin Walker recently quit as an aide at the Altercare nursing home in suburban Louisville even though he was well regarded and liked the work. He could not get there on time for the night shift.
"Kevin was a very good nurse's assistant, very caring," said Stephanie Henderson, the supervisor. "It's a constant problem for me: good aides with no transportation. It causes constant turnover. And when they're here, all they talk about sometimes is how they're going to get home."
Mr. Walker used to work in the kitchen at East Side Mario's restaurant in Belden Village, and some nights, when he got off at 10, the only way home was walking seven miles back to his apartment in Canton.
A survey a few years ago showed that 53 percent of bus riders earned $5,000 to $15,000 a year; 93 percent made less than $30,000.
Conveniences taken for granted in larger cities sound like pipe dreams here. "It would be nice to ride the bus to church and to the grocery store and not have to ask some friend for a ride," said Ms. Wheeler, waiting downtown for the bus to take her work.
Did she think the tax would pass?
"I pray to God that it passes," she said. "Everyone is praying."
Nancy Johnson is director of the senior center in Massillon, a city of 32,000 people in western Stark County that is not served by the buses. A few months ago she got a call from a 67-year-old woman looking for a driving instructor.
"Her husband had died and she'd never learned to drive," said Ms. Johnson, who volunteered to teach the woman for no charge. "We've been doing this a few months, but she's not really comfortable with a car yet. I'm not sure she's flexible enough at this age to be a safe driver. We were supposed to drive tonight, but she didn't want to drive in the rain."
The recent fiscal crisis was set off by cuts in Federal aid to local systems' operating budgets. In 1994 the Federal Government appropriated $700 million; in 1996 President Clinton requested $500 million, and the Republican-controlled Congress appropriated $400 million.
For Canton, that meant a reduction in Federal aid to $523,000 from $1.2 million. Local officials decided that any more cuts would make the system useless. Instead, they proposed increasing the sales tax by a quarter-cent, to 5.75 cents on the dollar, to pay for the buses. If the tax passes, enough revenue would be generated to expand the system dramatically, running buses 21 hours a day and reaching all over the county.
After the tax referendum failed last spring, Canton's Mayor, Richard Watkins, a Republican, asked Bill Luntz, a businessman here, to run the fall campaign for the referendum. Mr. Luntz, the 72-year-old chairman emeritus of the Luntz Company, a scrap metal supplier, was not pleased. He knew he would need to raise money for campaign advertising. "Nothing's more thankless than raising money to promote a tax increase," he said.
But Mr. Luntz is also part of a mainly Republican business establishment that takes its societal obligations seriously. Among other things, he has started a mentoring program at a Canton inner city school.
One of his first calls was to Jack Timken, a vice president of the Timken Company, the largest local employer. For 100 years, Luntzes have sold scrap steel to Timkens, who turn it into roller bearings. Mr. Timken gave $5,000. Several weeks later, with fund raising lagging, Mr. Luntz called Mr. Timken again. "I started to tell Jack the problems. He said, 'Stop, stop, I'll give you another $5,000.' "
Mr. Luntz has raised $60,000, about twice the amount contributed to last spring's campaign. Supporters have put up 2,000 yard signs. "We had enough money to buy air time for radio ads before it was all booked by the politicians," he said.
It will be a test of whether the anti-tax anger has softened here. Seven times in the 1990's, county residents defeated an increase in the sales tax to expand the overcrowded jail. This is a conservative, law-and-order place, yet in 1994, even as the waiting list to go to jail here reached five years and inmates were being released early to free up cells, voters defeated a sales tax increase.
But those feelings may be changing as the economy improves. In 1995 county voters finally passed a sales tax increase for the jail. Last spring seven of the nine local school districts passed budgets increasing their taxes, an unusually high success rate.
Transit officials had been pessimistic about winning, but they are sounding more hopeful lately. "I can see the light at the end of the tunnel and it's a bus," said Mary Cain, the transit board chairman, who believes the referendum could be decided by a few hundred votes.
With unemployment so low, "Help Wanted" signs are everywhere and suburban businesses that rely on low-wage workers are having trouble hiring. Canton is their best bet. Unemployment countywide is 4.8 percent, but in Canton it is 7.7 percent. Employers hope a better bus system will help them tap the city job market. Guy Cicchini, the biggest McDonald's owner in the county, with 17 stores, has all his workers wearing pink Regional Transit Authority campaign shirts.
At 10:30 P.M., cleanup is over at the McDonald's in Belden Village, but Debra Ogden, the manager, does not leave until she is sure everyone has a ride. When Kevin Pohle, 16, is working, she puts his bike in the trunk of her '90 Dodge hatchback and drives him home. "I don't want him riding his bike on busy streets late at night," she said.
Jeff Graber, Target's manager, is letting bus supporters use the store's parking lot for a pre-election rally. He said he had not heard anyone speaking against the tax, but added, "The problem is, I don't hear anyone talking about it too much at all."
The question is whether they can reach people like Lisa Gaetano. The young mother had just parked her car the other day at the Strip, the newest shopping complex in suburban Jackson, and was heading with her daughter into Baby Bath and Beyond. Mrs. Gaetano said she had never ridden a Stark bus, nor had she heard of the tax vote. "It sounds like it might be a good idea," she said.
One suburban resident working for the referendum is Edie Shanower of Perry, an accountant. Her oldest son, Jeff, has cerebral palsy. "Technology has opened up so much for him," she said. "He has a voice-activated computer. He speaks to it and it types his papers." He has earned a master's and gets to his job downtown as a career counselor by bus.
"We took him to a specialist in Cleveland about equipping a car for driving," she said. "They put on all these special controls and gadgets, but it would never work because his eyesight just isn't strong enough. Technology is wonderful, but technology can only do so much."
"He needs the bus," she said.
 
Living midway between Democratic Cleveland and Republican Columbus, the citizens of Canton, Ohio, and surrounding Stark County have a history of voting for the winning Presidential candidate. This is the 31st article in a yearlong series that seeks to explore the forces shaping the political debate at the grass roots. (Previous articles are available to computer users on The New York Times on the Web, at http://www.nytimes.com/specials/canton.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: A big issue in Stark County, Ohio, is public transit. Brenda Allen, a hospital worker who waited for the bus on Wednesday with her children, Elon and Ebony, said she could not work overtime because of limited service. (Scott Heckel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (95%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (86%); AURORA, OH, USA (86%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: CANTON REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: CANTON REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: STARK COUNTY (OHIO); CANTON (OHIO); UNITED STATES (95%); OHIO, USA (95%); AKRON, OH, USA (86%); AURORA, OH, USA (86%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; SURVEYS AND SERIES; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; BUSES; WELFARE (US); HOUSING; TAXATION ; SALES TAX US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); SALES TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); SUBURBS (89%); RESTAURANTS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TAX LAW (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); REFERENDUMS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (65%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (65%); PARAEDUCATORS (60%); TELEMARKETING (50%); 

PERSON: WINERIP, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996



585 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 38; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Is It a Global Market for Campaign Gifts, Too?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Recent discoveries about foreign money's influence on Presidential politics have spawned much umbrage, but your Oct. 22 editorial ("Dole, Clinton and Asian Money"), like others, omits an important point.
Profit is nation-neutral. It is driven by markets, not by nations. As the world economy becomes progressively more open, the distinctions among dollars, drachmas and deutsche marks become more artificial. So does any distinction between countries headquartered in Indonesia and those in Indiana. And if someone seeks to maximize profit all over the globe, his first allegiance is to no nation. 
 In the United States, it is illegal for foreigners to buy political access, but legal for citizens. I have no reason to believe that the self-interest of domestic access-buyers is any better for the country than that of foreigners.
If anything, in a world economy, the rules look like protectionism: access restricted to the highest domestic bidder.
Why doesn't the citizenry protest to high heaven? Because it was inevitable, and we were benumbed by the domestic access-buyers. We see no difference.
 
GERALD J. DALZELL
Rutherford, N.J., Oct. 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; FINANCES; ETHICS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); ETHICS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: DALZELL, GERALD J HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996



586 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar at 33-Month High vs. Yen And Also Climbs Against Mark

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar ended mixed against European currencies yesterday but reached a 33-month high against the Japanese yen after a roller-coaster session.
Trading centered on the German mark, which gyrated after several German officials gave conflicting views on the outlook for domestic interest rates, and the British pound, which rallied on strong economic performance in Britain. 
 Three officials of the German central bank said they did not expect to see lower German interest rates ahead, but two of the officials expressed hope that rate cuts were still possible.
The dollar climbed against the mark on the news, since lower German rates would enhance the relative value of assets priced in dollars.
But release of a radio interview with the Bundesbank's president, Hans Tietmeyer, in which he asserted that Germany's economy would grow through 1997 without a rate cut, sent the mark soaring against the dollar.
"There were a number of comments out of German authorities as to the interest rate picture and the dollar reacted to every single one of them," said Dennis Pettit, foreign exchange manager in New York at the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan.
The dollar closed at 1.5210 marks, up from 1.5170 late Thursday. Against the yen, the dollar finished at 113.31, its highest close since January 1994, up from 112.87.
The British pound rose to $1.5973 from $1.5909 late Thursday after reaching a 15-month peak earlier in the session. The dollar rose to 1.2611 Swiss francs from 1.2548.
The pound rallied on a report that the British economy grew by eight-tenths of a percent in the third quarter, exceeding expectations.
"Britain's economy looks good and people are expecting higher interest rates there," said Dominick Presser, chief dealer at the Dresdner Bank in New York.
The dollar benefited from solid United States economic data, dealers said.
The dollar also continued to rally against the yen, helped by Japanese investors selling yen to invest in higher-yielding overseas markets.
But the dollar may have reached a near-term peak as it approached 113.60 yen, the January 1994 high, which dealers said was a crucial technical level.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (99%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996



587 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Prices of Treasury Bonds Rise On a Weakness in Home Sales

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Treasury prices ended higher yesterday, erasing an early loss, as a slump in sales of existing homes helped ease concerns over inflation.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 14/32 , to 993/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.81 percent from 6.85 percent. A week ago, the yield was at 6.79 percent. The price of the two-year note also rose, driving its yield down to 5.89 percent from 5.93 percent. 
 "There's not a lot for bond investors to be concerned about," said Bob Alley, who manages $3 billion at AIM Advisers in Houston. "There's no overwhelming inflation problem."
Treasury bonds rallied after the National Association of Realtors said sales of previously owned homes fell 2.9 percent to an annual pace of 4.02 million in September -- less than what economists had expected.
If it was not enough to touch off a big rally, the economic news "wasn't bearish for the bond market," said Michael Link, who manages the $165 million Gradison-McDonald Government Income Fund in Cincinnati. "There's no reason for interest rates to go significantly higher."
Other reports yesterday, however, pointed to much stronger growth.
The Commerce Department said that orders for durable goods jumped 4.6 percent last month. Even without transportation goods, orders climbed nine-tenths of 1 percent.
The University of Michigan's index of consumer sentiment rose to 96.5, up from last month's 94.7 and a preliminary reading of 94.8 reported two weeks ago, analysts familiar with the report said. The survey, which is released only to paying subscribers, showed that Americans grew more comfortable with their finances and the economy this month.
Nonetheless, a mightier dollar bolstered demand for Treasury securities among foreign central banks, which bought through the Federal Reserve, traders said. The currency rose to a 33-month high of 113.31 yen.
It was not the first time this week or this year that speculation of foreign demand buoyed the market, said Tony Crescenzi, head of fixed-income trading at the New York brokerage firm of Miller, Tabak, Hirsch & Company. "They've been major backers of this market, and I think that's the primary reason why we're trading well," he said.
On Thursday, the Fed said it was holding more United States Government securities in custody for foreign central banks than ever -- $593.39 billion. Such holdings rose $724 million in the week ended Wednesday, setting the 16th record so far this year.
In the corporate bond market, Mirage Resorts Inc. was among the biggest issuers yesterday. Mirage, based in Las Vegas, Nev., sold $250 million of bonds, $50 million more than expected. The 10-year notes, rated BBB+ by Standard & Poor's and Baa2 by Moody's Investors Service, were priced to yield 7.268 percent.
The Household Finance Corporation, a unit of Household International and a provider of financial, credit card and banking services to individuals and businesses, sold $150 million in five-year notes.
The notes pay a floating rate of interest of 15 basis points more than the three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, the rate international banks charge each other.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MIR (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (70%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: MILLER TABAK HIRSCH & CO (63%); MIRAGE RESORTS INC (60%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (70%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (96%); TREASURY SECURITIES (94%); BOND MARKETS (92%); EXISTING HOME SALES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); DURABLE GOODS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (71%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); INTEREST RATES (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996



588 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
3M Earnings Rise 15.7%; Stock Surges

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, Oct. 25

 BODY:
The Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company said today that earnings rose 15.7 percent in the third quarter on strong international sales, especially in Japan, other parts of Asia and Latin America.
The results from the maker of tapes, adhesives, coatings and films beat expectations on Wall Street, and its stock soared $3.125, to $74.375, on the New York Stock Exchange. 3M is one of the issues in the 30-share Dow Jones industrial average. 
 3M, based in St. Paul, said profits rose to $398 million, or 95 cents a share, in the quarter, from $344 million, or 82 cents a share, in the 1995 period, which included earnings of $5 million, or 1 cent a share, from discontined operations.
Sales grew 7.4 percent, to $3.62 billion from $3.37 billion.
The results surpassed analysts' average forecasts of 93 cents a share, according to First Call, which tracks estimates.
The company said unit sales rose 10 to 12 percent internationally and more than 7 percent in the United States.
"A strong flow of innovative, high-impact new products, an intense focus on customer satisfaction and continued expansion internationally fueled our worldwide volume growth," 3M's chairman, Livio D. DeSimone, said in a statement.
3M, which makes products ranging from Post-It notes and Scotch brand adhesive tape to medical imagers and industrial adhesives, said its prices rose just 1 percent in the quarter while unit volume increased 10 percent.
The company's units in Japan, elsewhere in Asia, Latin America and Canada posted double-digit volume increases in the quarter while unit sales in Europe grew 7 percent, despite sluggish economies in many major European countries.
Changes in currency exchange rates reduced earnings in the latest quarter by 5 cents a share, 3M said. That reflected a stronger dollar, which causes earnings in overseas markets to be worth less when converted to dollars.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co.(MMM,N)"

Qtr. to Sept. 30	1996	1995	%Ch	Sales	3,623,000,000	3,370,000,000	+7.4	Net inc.	b398,000,000	c344,000,000	+15.7	Sh. earn	.95	.82	 	Sh. out.	418,300,000	419,900,000	 	
 
b-Included effects of currency exchange rate changes, which reduced earnings by about 5 cents a share.
c-Included income from discontinued operations of $5 million, or 1 cent a share.
Results are for the third quarter.
 
Yesterday's closing price: $74.375 Up $3.125

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (93%); MMM (NYSE) (93%); MMM (FRA) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (93%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (93%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (91%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING CO 3M CO (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (91%); CANADA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996



589 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Revised Data Show Layoff Rate Constant in 1990's

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25

 BODY:
Despite the economic recovery and substantial numbers of new jobs, the rate of layoffs in the work force in the middle of the decade remained roughly constant compared with the early 1990's, according to revised figures released today by the Labor Department.
The figures also showed that the number of people who identified themselves as having lost a job increased in the middle of the decade, providing further statistical underpinning for the anxiety and job insecurity that have become staples of the nation's economic and political discourse. 
 Bob Dole's campaign said the revised figures were evidence of why economic anxiety is "spreading like a virus through America's work force." But the Clinton Administration said the figures were contradicted by other statistical evidence that suggests layoffs are down at a time when unemployment is extremely low.
Today's numbers from the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics were corrected versions of figures for the early and mid-1990's that were first made public in August.
The original figures appeared to show that both the rate and number of layoffs had declined in the last few years, despite a wave of corporate reorganizations, the migration of some jobs to low-wage countries and increased automation.
The original numbers, however, contained a statistical flaw that was discovered by a Princeton University researcher, Henry Farber. The Bureau of Labor Statistics agreed to correct the flaw, and the figures it released today take account of the statistical problem, which related to the number of people who failed to respond to the Government's survey.
The revised figures showed that 8 percent of the labor force identified themselves as having lost a job involuntarily from 1993 through 1995, compared with 8.2 percent in the prior survey, which covered 1991 through 1993.
The revised rate remained far above that during the peak of the last economic expansion, in the middle and late 1980's, when the rate of layoffs went as low as 5.5 percent.
In addition to showing that the rate of layoffs did not decline appreciably in recent years, the new figures showed that the total number of people who said they had been displaced actually rose slightly in the most recent three-year period. About 9.4 million people lost jobs from 1993 through 1995, compared with 9.2 million from 1991 through 1993.
The Labor Department originally said that the rate of layoffs had fallen to 7.2 percent in the most recent three-year period from 8 percent in the previous period.
Similarly, the original figures showed a decline in the number of people saying they had been laid off, to 8.4 million for the most recent three years from 9 million in the early years of the decade.
The figures were taken from two surveys conducted for the Labor Department by the Census Bureau, in February 1994 and February 1996.
In each, respondents in 50,000 households were asked whether they had lost a job in the prior three years, and if so, to provide details. The surveys overlapped for the year 1993.
The Clinton Administration seized on the original numbers in August to back up its contention that the worst of the layoffs that had swept the economy was past. Today the chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, Joseph E. Stiglitz, said that other data still suggested that involuntary job losses were declining, and he raised questions about the statistical validity of the Labor Department numbers.
Mr. Stiglitz said the best indicator of job losses was the weekly tally of new claims for unemployment insurance. The average for that figure has declined from 484,000 a week in the first quarter of 1991 to 331,000 a week in this year's third quarter, he said, a decline of 31.6 percent. Those claims, however, also include people who are laid off only temporarily and tend to follow the ups and downs of the economy more closely than the layoff figures compiled every other year.
"From the perspective of how well we're performing, the data I find more relevant are how well do we create jobs for people entering the labor force or who are losing jobs," Mr. Stiglitz said.
He said the economy had created 10.5 million net new jobs since Mr. Clinton took office and that unemployment, at 5.2 percent, was about as low as it could sustain over the long run without igniting inflation.
"From a policy perspective, we will continue to be worried about people who are displaced, and we will continue to push forward with programs like portability of pensions and portability of health care to make it easier for people who move from job to job," he said. "The desirability of that is not affected by slight revisions of the statistics."
But Mr. Dole's campaign seized on the revision as evidence that workers had been shortchanged by what the Republican nominee has long lambasted as the weakest economic recovery on record.
"With or without the statistics, Bob Dole realizes economic anxiety is real and spreading like a virus through America's work force," said Christina Martin, spokeswoman for Mr. Dole. "Without underestimated numbers to hide behind, Bill Clinton should now step forward and confess to being responsible for stagnant wages and an increase in layoffs."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Job Displacement Rate" shows percentage of workers who said they had lost a job involuntarily in the past three years. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY LAYOFFS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); CENSUS (61%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996



590 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE DEMOCRAT;
Clinton, in an Artful Campaign Trip to Georgia, Urges a Tutor Plan for Young Readers

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: MACON, Ga., Oct. 25

 BODY:
During a single hour in downtown Atlanta today, President Clinton managed to make a big splash in a Southern state he wants to win, sit silent as a surrogate slashed away at Bob Dole, chasten a heckler and put in a plug for a Democratic Senate candidate who does not want to be seen as too much in his shadow.
He also floated an upbeat, low-cost idea: using Federal work-study grants to pay college students to tutor third graders in reading. 
 In the last stretch of what may be his last campaign, the President is proving to be a master in the art of doing just about everything while doing nothing in particular.
"I want all of us to be able to say we don't need to look down on anybody else to feel good about ourselves and our families and our future," Mr. Clinton said. "And I want all of us to say we believe that we have an obligation to serve as citizens to help our children to read, to deal with the other problems in our community, to save the generation of our young people who are in trouble still today because they're more vulnerable to gangs and guns and drugs, and other problems that threaten their future."
Along the way, the President wraps bare-knuckle campaigning in motherhood, music and the kind of red-white-and-blue bunting that bedecked Woodruff Park in Atlanta and the City Auditorium in this central Georgia city today.
And while he repeatedly insists that he wants a campaign of "ideas, not insults" on a golden road to the 21st century, if one of his seconds just happens to hurl a well-turned insult in the direction of his Republican challenger, Bob Dole, Mr. Clinton is not a man to stand in the way.
"I like to think of Bill Clinton as the Luke Skywalker of American politics, fighting the dark side with bold new programs and hope for the future," Mayor Bill Campbell of Atlanta said, referring to the hero of "Star Wars" as the President sat on a makeshift stage. "And we all know who Darth Vader is: Bob Dole is out of touch, out of steam and out of time."
A few moments later, Mr. Clinton took his own veiled dig at Mr. Dole. As he started to praise the sacrifice of Max Cleland, the Democratic Senate nominee who lost both legs and an arm in the Vietnam War and who has taken some pains not to associate himself too closely with Mr. Clinton, a heckler demanded to know what the President, who avoided military service in that war, could know about sacrifice.
"You all relax," Mr. Clinton soothed as his supporters booed the heckler. "When people don't have a side of their own to make, they try to shout down their opponents.
"Let me tell you," Mr. Clinton added , "Max Cleland has kept on giving for a lifetime, with a smile on his face and a song in his heart, always reaching out his hand to other people. Now, the other side, their idea of sacrifice is to take Head Start away from 5-year-olds, college loans away from students, to take the environment away from all of our people and to weaken our future economy for short-term promises."
In a single breath, Mr. Clinton contrasted Mr. Cleland with Mr. Dole's reputation for dourness, and his own Administration's poll-tested defense of popular government programs against the Republican-controlled Congress. But the bulk of the President's speech was a hymn to the future -- a proposal to use existing Federal funds that subsidize jobs for college students to help carry out Mr. Clinton's previous call for increasing childhood literacy.
Under Mr. Clinton's plan, which would require Congressional approval but no new money, 100,000 federally subsidized job slots that were added as part of the budget Congress passed this fall would be set aside to pay reading tutors. The President said that could make up 10 percent of the one million volunteer tutors he has called for.
"I want you to support that," Mr. Clinton told several thousand people gathered in downtown Atlanta. "I want you to tell me that you will help to teach a child to read, to help people in this community who need it, to make this community one."
The Dole campaign dismissed Mr. Clinton's proposal as a gimmick, and a spokeswoman for Mr. Dole, Christina Martin, said it was interesting that the President had to "hide behind a war hero" like Mr. Cleland to make his point about sacrifice.
Nevertheless, the proposal is precisely the kind of small idea -- from curfews for teen-agers to cellular phones for neighborhood watch groups -- that Mr. Clinton has used to style himself as an exponent of the upbeat optimism that led President Ronald Reagan to proclaim in his 1984 campaign that it was "morning in America."
Indeed, Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia, who is retiring this year and who has not always seen eye-to-eye with Mr. Clinton over issues like homosexuals in the military, recited the President's record in office and asked rhetorically that "if Republicans were in charge and had a record like this, would they be saying liberal, liberal, liberal?" He answered himself with a resounding no.
Later, in a telephone conference call with black clergy from around the country conducted from the venerable Paschal's restaurant in downtown Atlanta, Mr. Clinton made it clear that he would like to be remembered in a second term for more than blocking Republican initiatives.
"Now, all of this depends upon this election," Mr. Clinton said. "I can do a pretty good job of saying no if I have to. I've shown that I know how to sign that veto pen pretty good.
"But we also want to say yes to America, to a new direction, to keep this economy growing, to keep preserving the environment, to clean up these toxic waste sites in our cities so our children will be growing up next to parks, not poison, to continue to expand health care coverage to people when they're unemployed for six months, to expand coverage to a million more children."
At a late afternoon rally here in Macon, Mr. Clinton also showed that he can still laugh at himself occasionally. Thanking local officials for the gift of a T-shirt from the local minor league hockey team, the Macon Whoopee, Mr. Clinton said: "You know, it's Hillary's birthday tomorrow. Maybe I ought to give that to her."
Then he paused and added, "If that gets on the news before I get home tonight, I'm in trouble."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); MACON, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA; UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); MACON, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTIONS; READING; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); VIETNAM WAR (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLELAND, MAX; CAMPBELL, BILL (MAYOR); DOLE, BOB; PURDUM, TODD S BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996



591 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE RUNNING MATE;
In Secure Midwest, Gore Focuses on Congressional Seats

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS 

DATELINE: YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio, Oct. 25

 BODY:
In a brisk swing through Michigan and Ohio, Vice President Al Gore cheerfully campaigned today as much for the local Democratic candidates as for himself and President Clinton.
These two Midwestern states are traditionally described every four years as critical battlegrounds in the Presidential contests, but this year there are few who believe Ohio and Michigan represent much of a contest at the top of the ticket. A wide range of public opinion polls has Mr. Clinton leading Bob Dole handsomely, in double digits in both states. 
 Although Mr. Gore gave rousing speeches on behalf of the local tickets in both states, he and his campaign exude an air of serenity with less than two weeks to go before Election Day.
Early in the day Mr. Gore made a long-planned campaign stop in Port Huron, Mich., on behalf of Representative David E. Bonior, the Democratic whip.
Speaking before more than 1,000 people, many in hard hats and baseball jackets with union insignia, Mr. Gore said that four years ago the local unemployment rate was greater than 10 percent.
"With the help of David Bonior, we have brought that down to five and a half percent," he said as massive freighters plied the St. Clair River behind him.
Mr. Gore had scheduled the trip to Port Huron, which has thriving steel and auto components industries, months ago when it appeared that Mr. Bonior could face his first real challenge in years. His Republican opponent, Susy Heintz, is a former state Republican chairwoman and a chief strategist for Gov. John R. Engler, a rising Republican star.
But now it appears that Mr. Bonior holds a commanding lead in public opinion polls, and Mr. Gore's strategists said an important goal of the Michigan trip now was to help the Democrats win control of both houses of the state legislature, where narrow Republican majorities have greatly helped Governor Engler.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) ST CLAIR PIPELINES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWESTERN STATES (US); OHIO; MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (96%); OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); LANSING, MI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (52%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWIS, NEIL A; BONIOR, DAVID E (REPR) AL GORE (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996



592 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Protesters Take to Streets to Defend Canada's Safety Net

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Oct. 25

 BODY:
Canadians do not easily take to the streets; it's just not their way. But today thousands of angry people paralyzed parts of Canada's largest city to protest government actions that they say threaten the core of what Canada stands for.
Protesters managed to shut down Toronto's subway, bus and streetcar system, stranding the 600,000 commuters who normally use public transportation. Highways leading to the Lester B. Pearson International Airport were jammed by drivers who deliberately slowed traffic to a crawl. A third of the city's public school teachers did not show up for work, and police officers were needed to keep hundreds of protesters from disrupting the Toronto Stock Exchange. 
 The direct target of the protests was the new provincial government and its leader, Mike Harris, who has become a darling of Wall Street by slashing almost $1 billion from Ontario's budget, dropping more than 180,000 people from welfare rolls and promising to shrink income taxes 30 percent. Eventually the spending cuts will reach nearly $6 billion, but achieving that goal will mean closing hospitals, raising university tuition and laying off civil servants, among other measures.
Labor unions and community groups wanted to send Mr. Harris a message that they considered the cuts mean spirited and excessive. But as they organized their response, they sensed something more going on.
Most of Canada's 10 provinces have adopted the same theme: tax cuts and smaller government. The Federal Government has done its own share of hacking, with deep cuts to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and other mainstays of Canadian life.
"These are the marks of a caring society and -- no offense -- what sets us apart from the United States," said Linda Torney, an organizer of the protest called Days of Action. She said that many of those who picketed subway stations, government offices and large businesses, had never joined a protest before. But they came out today in support of Canada's social safety net because the Government cuts threaten "a major aspect of what makes us Canadians," she said.
Kathryn McClurg, a librarian at the main reference library on Yonge Street for the last six years, said she is "one of those Canadians who usually sit at home and watch things happen on television." She carried a picket sign in front of the library today not just because of millions of dollars in proposed cuts to the library's budget, "but cuts to all the social programs that have given us the quality of life we have," she said.
This is the fifth, and largest, Days of Action protest in Ontario since Mr. Harris was elected last year. Prodded by labor unions, thousands of Canadians in the largest province have taken to the streets of London, Hamilton and other cities.
The protests have exposed a deep division in Canadian society, said Neil Nevitte, a University of Toronto political scientist, who has written a book about Canadian values. Deference to authority is declining, and Canadians are growing feistier as they seek more control over their lives, he said.
They support Canada's traditional safeguards for the sick, the unemployed and the desperate -- benefits that are far more generous than in the United States, and more costly. They are also worried about high taxes and government deficits, and the number of people laid off because of increased international competition in business.
"What's going on," Professor Nevitte said, "is a fundamental battle over the size and scope of the welfare state in Canada," which is likely to be played out on a national level in next year's elections.
It is not surprising that the Ontario government does not see it that way. "Yes, it's a big protest," said Paul J. Rhodes, a spokesman for Mr. Harris, "but there are no surprises here." Mr. Harris ran on a campaign promise to cut spending, cut taxes and reduce welfare, and he did it, Mr. Rhodes said. He said Mr. Harris thinks unions are simply trying to protect their own jobs.
The Days of Action are the largest mass demonstrations in Ontario since the 1970's, maybe the largest ever. Disruptions did not come close to causing the chaos predicted in local headlines, but for a city unaccustomed to civil disobedience, just the thought of such protests was enough to make hands sweat at city hall.
Earlier this week hospitals canceled chemotherapy sessions and some surgery that had been scheduled for Friday. The post office said it would not deliver mail on Friday, the Sanitation Department apologized because it would not pick up garbage, and City Hall said it would not issue marriage certificates.
Not all of Toronto endorsed the Days of Action. "The business community isn't going to stand for this kind of intimidation," said Elyse Allan, chief executive of the Metro Toronto Board of Trade. A march planned for Saturday is more likely to hurt tourists in town for the Breeders' Cup than local people, she said.
Many resisted the temptation to just take the day off. Hotels were booked weeks ago, and many workers slept at their desks Thursday night. One local restaurant offered a "Protest Day Buffet," and a great number of unusually clumsy bikers could be seen wobbling and weaving through downtown streets.
Some workers made it in, but were not sure why. "I believe in what they're going for," said Michelle Axbey, 24, as she watched the demonstrators during a coffee break from the downtown brokerage firm where she works, "but how do I bite the hand that feeds me?"
The image of noisy street protests is jarring in a city so orderly that even the rare beggar can be counted on to start his pitch with "Excuse me." Predictability is bedrock here, a given in a city that just this week was designated by Fortune magazine as the best place in the world in which to live and work.
Mr. Rhodes, the Ontario government spokesman, admitted that today's demonstrations are likely to hurt Toronto's image, and to the rest of the world, this will look like a day of trouble in paradise. "But for the other 364 days of the year," he said, "there's no place like it."
Organizers hope that once Canadians get the hang of protesting, they will be more likely to come out again. If they do, it's likely to be in their own style.
"We say 'excuse me' and smile at the people who pass us on the way to work," said Melanie Exner, a member of the Ontario Teachers Federation who started picketing the stock exchange at 7 A.M. But Mrs. Exner warned that politeness should not be mistaken for consent. "I won't just sit quietly by," she said, "as our country is changed without our consent."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thousands of demonstrators gathered in Toronto yesterday to oppose cuts in Ontario's provincial budget by its new conservative government. The two-day protest tangled highway traffic and shut down mass transit. (Associated Press); A police officer and a protester faced off outside a provincial government building in Toronto yesterday. The protests were generally peaceful. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: X (TSX) (58%); TXQ (FRA) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (96%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (96%); 

COMPANY: CANADIAN BROADCASTING CORP (66%); TMX GROUP LTD (58%); TORONTO BOARD (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: TORONTO BOARD (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; TORONTO (ONTARIO); ONTARIO (CANADA); CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (96%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); RIOTS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TRENDS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); AIRPORTS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); TUITION FEES (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); LIBRARIES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (56%); HOSPITALS (52%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY; HARRIS, MIKE (PREMIER) MIKE HARRIS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996



593 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: In China's Outlands, Poorest Grow Poorer

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: NIUJUAN, China

 BODY:
Life is unimaginably hard in the burnt umber hills of this part of northwestern China. In four of the last five years there has been no harvest and millions of poor farmers are living in a state of hunger, poor health and illiteracy that in some areas approaches the deprivation levels of China's great famine in the late 1950's.
Muslim villagers here in southern Ningxia, known as the Hui Autonomous Region, say that no official from the Xiji County government, 20 miles away, has ever hiked into this desperately poor hamlet to offer assistance to the peasants, most of whom cannot afford to send their children to school and for whom medical care is nonexistent. 
 To add to their misery this fall, a plague of rats has come down from the mountains to feed on the pitifully small potato crop that sprouted after the blessing of a late summer rain and is all that will keep hunger at bay this winter. This year, a farmer named He Delin put it ruefully, "Our life is potatoes."
Although China has made prodigious efforts under Communist rule to eradicate poverty, lifting tens if not hundreds of millions to a higher standard of living through the economic reforms led by the paramount leader, Deng Xiaoping, since 1978, from 60 million to 100 million Chinese still live on the edge of starvation and despair.
And according to new World Bank estimates, more than one-quarter of all Chinese -- about 350 million -- are in substantial deprivation, subsisting on less than $1 a day. In addition, for the first time a significant number of urban dwellers -- perhaps 15 million or more -- are falling below the poverty line as moribund state factories jettison workers in cities with no social security or welfare nets to catch them.
The significance of the new estimates is that they show a larger part of China's population being left behind than previously thought, even as the overall economy continues to register impressive growth. Although an average Chinese is better off today than at any time in the last 150 years, a huge part of the population -- more than the population of the United States -- remains on the bottom rung of the economic ladder.
The new World Bank estimates, based on improved data from the Chinese, also show that the big reduction in poverty in the first 10 years of economic overhaul begun by Mr. Deng has slowed substantially, while disparities in income between the rich coastal regions and poor inland regions have only intensified.
Altogether, these new estimates suggest that China will not be the economic colossus in the next century that many experts have predicted. Some now believe that the weight of China's poor, added to the weight of its debt-ridden state industries and the degradation of its environment, will limit the pace of development and may well prevent China's emergence as a dominating power.
And the grievances of millions of peasants and workers slipping closer to the edge can only be a source of threat and volcanic instability for the Communist Party leadership, whose legitimacy now derives solely from its ability to deliver prosperity, not ideology, to the masses.
Here in the village of Niujuan, which means Cow Pen, the weight of poverty can be seen in the faces that reflect the grinding fatigue of malnutrition and the corrosion of untreated disease.
"Last year was the worst," said a farmer, Su Dikua, speaking by the light of the kerosene lamp in his one-room mud house, which is a step up from the cave where Mr. Su had lived for most of his 59 years. His wife has a "skin disease" acquired during those years in the cave. It is possible that it is leprosy, but she has never seen a doctor about it.
Last year, Mr. Su said, they had almost nothing to eat. "Those who had the energy, traveled to the city to beg," he said. Among those who fled because of the hardship was his eldest son, Su Sanwa, 22, and "we haven't had any letters from him since."
It now appears that the Communist Party leadership has little hope of reaching its goal of lifting this huge population out of its misery by the end of the century.
Although Beijing still spends about $1 billion a year to alleviate poverty, with additional help from the World Bank and the United Nations, "no one believes that the goal is achievable," said one antipoverty expert in a major Western aid institution.
Even senior Chinese officials are beginning to hedge.
Liu Junwen, a senior staff member of the "leading group" on poverty reduction under Prime Minister Li Peng, acknowledged in September that to reach the goal, "that means that we must lift 13 million people out of poverty annually, almost three times the figure we have managed to reach in the past few years."
Speaking to reporters after a poverty conference, he added, "the poverty in which these 65 million people are living constitutes the hardest nut to crack due to the various deep-rooted geographical and socioeconomic adversities."
In other words, the first easy step in poverty reduction is over.
The spurt of prosperity that came in the 1980's from breaking up Mao's communes and freeing 900 million peasants to sell their own produce has proved difficult to match in the 1990's. The early gains in living standards were made among the Chinese living in lowland areas with access to roads, markets and ports.
The hardest work lies ahead for hundreds of millions of Chinese who live in mountainous, desert and arid plateau regions where arable land and rainfall are rare. And many of the hard-core poor are from China's minority populations, who were flushed into the highlands centuries ago by conquering armies of the Han Chinese.
"You hike into these villages and people are putting dirt in backpacks to haul up onto these rocky slopes to try to get something to grow," said Alan Piazza, a leading specialist on poverty in China for the World Bank. "When I bring agriculturists to these areas, they look at the landscape and say, 'Declare this a national park and get everyone out.' It's ridiculous; there is just no land."
He was referring to the eerily beautiful karst landscapes of southwestern China, where topsoil is scarce among the humpback limestone formations.
Mr. Piazza is the bank's most outspoken advocate for more focused, small-scale programs to put money into the hands of farmers, while also rebuilding rural education and health care so that families might have a chance to break the generational cycle of poverty.
"Most Americans could not begin to comprehend what 65 million Chinese have to endure and what that level of deprivation is all about," he said in a recent interview in Beijing.
"What you find in these villages is that one in 10 children dies in the first year of life," he said; "in some places it's one in five. Respiratory infections pick them off at incredibly high rates." He added, "In poverty areas, the remnant of the health system that once was no longer exists."
As for education, he said: "In the Southwest, only one child in 10 gets through the sixth grade. There is no way you will eliminate poverty if you don't educate children through the sixth grade."
China's leaders may have begun to realize that their approach to poverty reduction has been flawed. A recent Government survey reported that about $800 million of the $1 billion allocated annually was being spent on subsidies to county governments in poverty areas. Other poverty experts say that money has been squandered by local officials who never travel to the countryside, and that other money has been diverted to rural industries that are favored by local party bosses.
"We have heard about poverty alleviation programs," said He Demin, a 43-year-old farmer with eight children who lives down the gully from the Su family and who sold off farm animals last year so the family could eat through the winter. "But it never arrives here." He added, "The central authorities have a good heart, but their programs are not implemented by the officials below."
A neighbor, Yuan Wenqi, added: "It seems that the county government gets some money, and the township enterprises get some money, but not us."
The greatest failure in poverty reduction is in education and health, many experts say.
China has emphasized raising agricultural productivity on the assumption that rising farm incomes will allow peasants to buy the education and health services they need.
But because of the harsh terrain in China's upland areas, increasing agricultural production "is a pipe dream," Mr. Piazza said. The best solution, he said, is to educate children so they can find jobs in rural townships and small cities and leave the barren mountains behind.
"We are all illiterate here and so we don't know what is happening," said Mr. Yuan, as he offered boiled potatoes to a visitor. "If something is harmful, we don't know it. If something is good, we don't know it."
Ma Xinggui, a neighbor down the road, put it a different way as he paused from digging potatoes with his wife: "Because I have never been to school, I am like a blind person, even though I have eyes."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Niujuan village, Ma Xinggui and his wife, Ma Chunhua, harvest potatoes, the only crop that can keep hunger at bay this winter. (Patrick E. Tyler/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Ma Lianyu and village children at a cave house in Niujuan, a desperately poor village in northwestern China untouched by rural antipoverty aid. (Patrick E. Tyler/The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: China's Poorest Masses" shows the percentages of Chinese who subsist on $1 a day or less and 60 a day or less from 1978 to 1994. (Source: Worls Bank; Chinese State Statistical Bureau)(pg. 6)
 
Map of China showing location of Niujuan. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (50%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NINGXIA, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) WORLD BANK (50%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; HUI AUTONOMOUS REGION (CHINA); NIUJUAN (CHINA); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NINGXIA, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AGRICULTURE; FARMERS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; URBAN AREAS ; RURAL AREAS DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); TRENDS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); POTATO FARMING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); STARVATION (78%); FARM LABOR (78%); FAMINE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); COUNTIES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E DENG XIAOPING (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996



594 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Chirac's Goal: Bigger Mideast Role

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 25

 BODY:
Pressing for a greater role for Europe in the American-dominated Middle East peace negotiations, President Jacques Chirac of France showed during a six-day trip through the region this week that Europe might not be ready to be a player, but that France was -- as an outspoken advocate of Arab causes.
Mr. Chirac, whose deficit-cutting economic policies have made him deeply unpopular at home, flew back to France today to both criticism and praise. 
 Some of the accolades were almost as warm as those he got earlier in the week after calling on Israelis to recognize the Palestinians' right to a nation-state of their own and facing down zealous Israeli security guards during his visit to East Jerusalem.
It was a performance that some saw as worthy of de Gaulle, whose mantle had been looking uncomfortably loose and large on Mr. Chirac's shoulders since his election as President in May 1995.
"Jacques Chirac, in the purest Gaullist tradition, has said no," Sami Nair, a professor of political science at the University of Paris, said in Le Monde today. "He has underlined that Europe must refuse the rule of imperial law in the region that enables the American-Israeli axis to impose just about anything it wants on impotent Arab states."
Winning back the leverage that France used to have among the Arab countries of the Middle East but lost to the United States over the years has been a prime goal of Mr. Chirac's since he took office, and there seemed little doubt that he had made progress on that goal this week.
Whether his foreign policy play can help him win back lost popularity at home is another question. Only 32 percent of French voters view him favorably now, according to a poll published in the weekly Le Point taken just before his trip.
By appealing to Arab and Muslim moderation in the Middle East, Mr. Chirac may also have been trying to head off frustration among the millions of Muslim immigrants living in France, frustration that French officials fear could lead to the spread of terrorism here.
There is nothing they fear more. Bombs believed to have been planted by terrorists from Algeria killed several people in Paris and wounded hundreds in several cities around France last year, until the police gunned down the ringleaders.
So some diplomats who know him well believe that Mr. Chirac was also trying on this trip to support people he sees as bulwarks against fundamentalism -- not only Yasir Arafat, but also King Hussein of Jordan and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt.
And maybe also President Saddam Hussein of Iraq, whom Mr. Chirac, then the Prime Minister, welcomed to Paris in 1975 as "my personal friend." Mr. Chirac's conservative Government, and subsequent Socialist ones, sold enough arms to Baghdad to make France its biggest foreign creditor.
In 1981 Israeli planes bombed a French-supplied nuclear reactor that the Iraqis were apparently planning to use to make atomic bombs, and in 1991 France sided with the United States and its allies in the Persian Gulf war to get Iraq out of Kuwait.
But Mr. Chirac did not support the American missile strikes on Iraq early last month, and in Jordan on Thursday he appealed to the United Nations to lift a ban on limited oil sales to let Iraq to pay for food and medicine for its suffering population.
The United Nations was about to let Iraq sell $2 billion worth of oil for this purpose in September, but held up the sale after Iraq moved forces into Iraqi Kurdish territory and set off the American military reaction. It is probably not coincidental that two French oil companies, Elf and Total, are expected to be the main foreign conduits for the Iraqi oil.
Like de Gaulle, Mr. Chirac also has ambitions to lead Europe to a greater world role, and he consulted his European Union partners before undertaking this trip. But it was not "Europe" trying to get its foot in the negotiating door in Israel and Syria so much as France, which has found little support outside the Arab world in calling for a European negotiator to help the United States put some steam back into the peace effort.
"The conditions aren't there yet," Sir Leon Brittan, vice president of the European Union's executive Commission, said on Thursday of the prospects for a more visible European role. "If we manage to work together and we abstain from any independent actions, then we will have the ability to work with the United States in this region."
Though French officials insisted that Mr. Chirac's suggestions were aimed at complementing American policy in the Middle East, not competing with it, American officials accepted that claim with increasingly tight smiles.
"I salute the U.S. role, but I see the peace process running short of breath because of the loss of trust," Mr. Chirac said. "I see the European and French role in building more trust."
He was careful to stress that he saw Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel as a "friend." But his trip did little to cement French-Israeli friendship, always tenuous, and it might also do more harm than good to the improvement in French relations with the United States that he achieved in his first year in office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: FRANCE (98%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); EGYPT (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JORDAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (70%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; FRANCE; FRANCE (98%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); EGYPT (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JORDAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (70%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); TERRORISM (84%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); IMMIGRATION (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); FUNDAMENTALISM (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); RELIGION (62%); SHOOTINGS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); 

PERSON: CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); WHITNEY, CRAIG R JACQUES CHIRAC (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996



595 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Reports Show Mild Inflation and Growth

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25

 BODY:
Durable goods orders rebounded in September, the Commerce Department said today, and sales of existing homes remained strong despite a four-month decline, suggesting to analysts that the economy was expanding at a modest rate and that inflation was under control.
Much of the rise in durable goods orders came in transportation, which includes highly volatile aircraft orders. Without the rise in that area, the gain in durable goods orders was nine-tenths of 1 percent. 
 Bond prices fell initially but rose when investors saw the dip in housing and realized that much of the gain, the biggest in nearly four years, was in aircraft.
"The durable goods report confirms that the factory sector continues to grow modestly," said Mark Zandi, an economist with Regional Financial Associates in West Chester, Pa.
"The home sales," he added, "suggest that, although housing activity has slowed, it remains at a high level. They show the economy is expanding at a noninflationary pace."
The Commerce Department said that orders to factories for expensive durable goods rose 4.6 percent, to a seasonally adjusted record of $174.1 billion.
Although the increase was the largest since a 7.8 percent gain in December 1992, it was largely because of a 108 percent surge in aircraft orders.
In a separate report, the National Association of Realtors said sales of previously owned single-family homes fell 2.9 percent in September to a seasonally adjusted 4.02 million annual rate, the fourth straight drop.
Still, sales were above a four million rate for the seventh straight month and appeared to be making a run on the record of 3.98 million set in 1978. Sales were 3.8 million last year.
Mortgage rates, after reaching 8.42 percent in July, have been falling recently and averaged 7.86 percent this week. Some analysts believe the decline will help hold sales steady or even produce renewed growth.
In addition to the gain in transportation orders, electronic and other electrical equipment orders posted a 1.9 percent gain because of increased demand in communications.
But orders for industrial machinery and equipment were off nine-tenths of 1 percent and those for primary metals fell 1.7 percent.
Orders for nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft rose 3.1 percent, the second advance in three months. These orders often are a barometer of business plans to expand and modernize and have been a large source of economic strength in the current expansion.
Unfilled orders rose seventh-tenths of 1 percent, the fourth increase in the last five months. A rising backlog could mean businesses will have to increase production and staffing to meet demand.
Separately, the number of American workers filing first-time claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly fell by 22,000 last week to the lowest level in nearly two months.
The Labor Department said on Thursday that new applications for unemployment insurance totaled a seasonally adjusted 320,000, the lowest since 317,000 the week ended Aug. 31.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable Goods Orders" shows the manufacturers' total new orders for durable good, 1995-1996. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL ASSOCIATES (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); HOUSING MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); DURABLE GOODS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); EXISTING HOME SALES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (83%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BONDS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE & EQUIPMENT MFG (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); BOND MARKETS (56%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996



596 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: H. P. Minsky, 77, Economist Who Decoded Lending Trends

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Hyman P. Minsky, an economist and professor who explained, in path-breaking research, how lending patterns and mood swings can push an economy into speculative booms or steep declines, died on Thursday at Northern Dutchess Hospital in Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Rhinebeck.
He died of pancreatic cancer, his family said. 
 For the last six years, Professor Minsky was Distinguished Scholar at the Jerome Levy Economics Institute of Bard College, an independent institute on the Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., campus, where he had continued his research on debt and the economy.
One of his final papers argued that big industrial economies like that of the United States need $2 trillion or $3 trillion in national debt so cautious lenders who want guarantees of repayment can achieve this by buying the Government's very safe Treasury bills and bonds. Without such opportunity, he said, the Social Security Administration would lack a safe place to invest the payroll taxes of working Americans until they are paid out in pensions.
Mr. Minsky was sometimes described as a radical Keynesian whose research nevertheless endeared him to Wall Street.
"He offered very good insights in the 60's and 70's when linkages between the financial markets and the economy were not as well understood as they are now," said Henry Kaufman, a Wall Street money manager and economist. "He showed us that financial markets could move frequently to excess. And he underscored the importance of the Federal Reserve as a lender of last resort."
Mr. Minsky's best-known work came in the late 1960's and early 1970's while he was a professor at the University of California at Berkeley and then Washington University in St. Louis. John Maynard Keynes, the British economist, had written about unstable financial markets, but Mr. Minsky was the first to explain how this instability developed and interacted with the economy. In doing so he incorporated findings of Irving Fisher and other earlier economists.
Basically, Mr. Minsky found that in prosperous times, when corporate cash flow rises beyond what is needed to pay off debt, a speculative euphoria develops and soon lending gets beyond what the borrowers can pay off from their incoming revenues. That produces a crisis. There is a pull-back in lending, even to companies that can afford the loans, and the economy contracts.
"A fundamental characteristic of our economy," Mr. Minsky wrote in 1974, "is that the financial system swings between robustness and fragility and these swings are an integral part of the process that generates business cycles."
Disagreeing with many mainstream economists, he argued that these swings, and the booms and busts that can accompany them, are inevitable in a free market economy, unless Government steps in to control them, through regulation, central bank action and other tools that in fact came into existence in response to the Depression. He opposed the deregulation that characterized the 1980's.
It was at Berkeley that seminars attended by Bank of America executives helped him to develop his theories about lending and economic activity, views he laid out in two books: "John Maynard Keynes" (Columbia University Press, 1975) and "Stabilizing an Unstable Economy" (Yale University Press, 1986).
Hyman Philip Minsky, who was born in Chicago, graduated from George Washington High School in upper Manhattan. He received a bachelor's degree in mathematics at the University of Chicago in 1941, but influenced by Henry Simon, a revered economist, he shifted fields and received a doctorate in economics at Harvard in 1954, specializing in finance.
Mr. Minsky is survived by his wife, Esther, a son, Alan, and a daughter, Diana, all of Rhinebeck.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: HE INC (64%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (56%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (56%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); BONDS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); CANCER (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); CORPORATE TAX (68%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (57%); 

PERSON: MINSKY, HYMAN P; UCHITELLE, LOUIS HENRY KAUFMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996



597 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitian Desk

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 3-7
 
U.S. PREPARES FOR STAY IN BOSNIA
 
The United States and NATO have begun preparing to field a smaller but still sizable international peacekeeping force, including at least 5,000 American troops, to stay in Bosnia through 1997. 1
 
CHINA'S FORGOTTEN POOR
 
Even as China's economy registers impressive growth, new estimates show that more than a quarter of all Chinese remain in substantial deprivation, a larger portion of than previously thought. 1
 
CANADIANS TAKE TO THE STREETS
 
Thousands of angry Canadians paralyzed parts of Toronto to protest government spending cuts that could eventually reach nearly $6 billion, close hospitals and raise school tuitions. 3
 
FRANCE PUSHES ROLE IN MIDEAST
 
News analysis: President Jacques Chirac of France used a six-day trip through the Middle East to press for a wider role in the Palestinian-Israeli peace talks, as an outspoken advocate of Arab causes. 6
 
LOOMING CRISIS IN ZAIRE
 
Disaster loomed in eastern Zaire as fighting between the Zairian Army and Tutsi rebels threatened to touch off a regional war and cripple efforts by relief agencies to reach tens of thousands of refugees. 7
 
SET BACK FOR YUGOSLAV TRIBUNAL
 
An important Serbian witness has said the Bosnian Government ordered him to lie before the international war crimes tribunal or be killed, an investigator said. 7
 
Tokyo Journal: The politics of being a woman in Japan. 4
 
National A8-12
 
DOLE ATTACKS MEDIA AND CLINTON
 
Bob Dole urged his audiences to "rise up" against the nation's news organizations, which he said were protecting the Clinton Administration, and be outraged that President Clinton had, in his words, violated the public trust. 1
 
CLINTON'S RECORD ON IMMIGRATION
 
The immigration debate has increasingly been defined by President Clinton's opponents on the right; his role has been reduced to softening provisions of bills drawn up by Republicans. 1
 
SEPARATE TRIALS IN BOMBING CASE
 
A Federal judge ordered separate trials for the two men charged with bombing the Oklahoma City Federal Building in 1995, ruling that a joint trial would present an unacceptable risk of prejudice to both of the accused. 1
 
POPE'S DECISION POPULAR
 
Roman Catholic residents of Detroit said that they accepted and even welcomed Pope John Paul II's decision that the church should treat evolution as a theory backed by scientific research, and not just a hypothesis. 8
 
BUSY DAY FOR CLINTON
 
During a single hour in downtown Atlanta, President Clinton managed to make a big splash in a southern state he wants to win, sit silent as a surrogate slashed away at Bob Dole, chastened a heckler and put in a plug for a Democratic Senate candidate who does not want to be seen as too much in his shadow. 10
 
KEMP DEFENDS HIS TICKET
 
Jack Kemp delivered one of his most spirited defenses of the beleaguered Republican Presidential ticket and of his running mate, Bob Dole, castigating Republicans who he said had "run away." 10
 
FORMERLY PEROT COUNTRY
 
In 1992, Waldo County, Me., was Perot Country. Now many of Ross Perot's former disciples say his appeal has worn thin and residents say they frankly are not taking the Reform Party leader seriously. 11
 
Metro Report 27-31
 
TRANSIT AUTHORITY DISCOUNTS
 
 For the first time, the New York City Transit Authority will offer riders volume discounts, selling 11 fares for the price of 10 starting late next year or early 1998, in what amounts to a partial rollback of last year's 25-cent fare increase, high-ranking transit officials said. 1
 
A HEART FOR FRANK TORRE
 
 Four hours after watching on television as his baby brother took the Yankees into the lead in the World Series, Frank Torre was awakened in his bed at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center with the news he had been awaiting for four months: he was getting a new heart. 1
 
Business Digest 37
 
Arts/Entertainment 15-23, 26
 
The Grove Dictionary of Art. 15
 
Theater: "Randy Newman's 'Faust.' " 15
 
Sports 32-36
 
Baseball: Yankees on the brink of winning the World Series. 33
 
Obituaries 13
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 24-25
 
Editorials
 
Responsible sex-shop limits.
 
Albania's old habits.
 
Mr. Dole's tax plan gets worse.
 
Much ado about time.
 
Letters
 
Frank Rich: Indogate's drive-by victims.
 
Russell Baker: Gulling the rubes.
 
Patrick Smith: In Japan, democracy also rises.
 
Adam Hochschild: Taken hostage at the airport.
 
Peter D. Salins: How to create a real housing crisis.
 
Bridge 23
 
Crossword 21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); CANADA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); FRANCE (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); CANADA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); FRANCE (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JAPAN (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (84%); BOMBINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LITIGATION (71%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (68%); WAR CRIMES (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); RELIGION (65%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (62%); JUDGES (62%); HOSPITALS (55%); PEACE PROCESS (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); JACQUES CHIRAC (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996



598 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THIRD PARTY;
Perot Stronghold in '92 Largely Ignores Him in '96

BYLINE: By ERNEST TOLLERSON 

DATELINE: BELFAST, Me., Oct. 24

 BODY:
On the morning after the 1992 Presidential election, Waldo County residents could have christened their Down East enclave Perot Country. Ross Perot finished first here, beating Bill Clinton and George Bush as he did in 13 other counties around the nation.
But this year, Mr. Perot is looking less like a leading man and more like a bit player, with many of his former disciples here saying his appeal has worn thin, and with little tangible evidence of support like campaign offices and signs in yards and store windows. 
 Roger T. Newcomb, a retired I.B.M. employee, long proud of his independence from the two major parties, helped put this mid-coast county and his town, Swanville, in the Perot column four years ago. On Nov. 5, he will not.
Mr. Newcomb said Mr. Perot's 1996 campaign was baffling. Mr. Newcomb said he had never heard of Mr. Perot's running mate, the political economist Pat Choate, and did not understand why Mr. Perot had entered the race so late.
"I haven't even paid attention to him," Mr. Newcomb said as he ate a turkey sandwich at Dudley's Diner. "I don't think he can make it, so I haven't paid attention."
Here in the streets and shops of Belfast, where the Passagassawakeag flows into Belfast Bay, more than two dozen voters in interviews offered a blizzard of similar reasons for taking Mr. Perot less seriously.
They said they did not like how he seemed to have tilted the nomination process to the disadvantage of Richard D. Lamm, the former Colorado Governor and Democrat who challenged Mr. Perot last summer. They are baffled because he chose an obscure running mate, as he did in 1992. They said Mr. Perot's economic message sounded repetitive and flat. And they worry that he lacks Presidential temperament or consensus-building skills.
John and Gloria Fugarino, Perot supporters in 1992, said they soured on him after concluding that he had not given a fair shake to Mr. Lamm.
Four years ago, Mr. Perot won 36.2 percent of the vote in Waldo County, and 18.9 percent of the popular vote nationally. His campaign resonated among voters drawn to his third-party mantra of deficit reduction and political reform. And his infomercials in October and November 1992 got high ratings, tying once for second place and once for first.
Today, national public opinion surveys show support for Mr. Perot stuck in single digits: the last New York Times/CBS News survey, conducted Oct. 17-20, gave him the support of 5 percent of likely voters. His infomercials this month have all placed fourth in their time slots.
While Bob Dole has not written off Mr. Perot's appeal -- the Republican challenger dispatched his campaign manager to Dallas on Wednesday to try to win his endorsement -- Mr. Perot's falling support could have serious consequences for the Reform Party. Should his share of the vote fall below 5 percent, the party he created and financed would not be eligible for Federal campaign financing in 2000.
"He is not a fresh commodity," said John Anderson, the moderate Republican and, before Mr. Perot in 1992, the last independent Presidential candidate to register among voters, capturing nearly 7 percent of the vote in the 1980 elections. "The electorate tends to some fickleness, and the twangy Texan is not quite the specialty item that he proved to be in 1992."
Mr. Perot does still have his supporters here. "I think there is going to be a protest vote because of his exclusion from the Presidential debates," said Vangel Asimakopoulos, a Penobscot County supporter who has been active in Mr. Perot's campaigns. But for the most part, it was difficult to find signs of support for Mr. Perot in Waldo County and the rest of the state.
In 1992, when Mr. Perot spent up to $70 million of his own money on his campaign, Maine and other states had campaign offices and telephones. This year, Mr. Perot is spending the $29 million he has received in Federal campaign financing primarily on infomercials and his own campaign travels. And a check of directory assistance found no Perot '96 or Reform Party offices in Waldo County, or in Portland, Bangor or Augusta.
In addition, supporters here, as in other counties and states, have been left to do their own fund raising for signs, bumper stickers and other tools of a get-out-the-vote effort. Nelson Foley, chairman of Maine's Reform Party, said the state's 16 counties should have 5,000 signs by the end of this week.
Mr. Asimakopoulos and Lily Andrews, the volunteer state coordinator of the Perot '96 campaign, say the level of activity and commitment to Mr. Perot is high but difficult to see because volunteers work from their kitchen tables with their home telephones.
Still, with less than two weeks until the election, the Maine Reform Party has yet to issue its cross endorsements of major party candidates for the two House seats and the United States Senate seat up for election. Nor has it announced its positions on ballot initiatives, including one on campaign finance, an issue that is the centerpiece of the Perot agenda.
"The salience of some of his issues has faded," said Mr. Anderson, who had supported Mr. Lamm. "Clinton has drummed away on the thesis that, 'Well, I've done a lot with my willingness to increase taxes in '93 to decrease the deficit.' "
In downtown Belfast, Kief's Barber Shop has three traditional burgundy chairs, heads of two deer mounted on the walls and a blue and yellow 1992 Perot button affixed to a tall glass jar full of "Barbicide," a disinfectant.
"I'm going to vote for Perot," said Bill Kief, a former marine who added that he thought Mr. Perot should have found a running mate Americans knew. "I know I'm going to waste my vote, but I'm going to show my disgust with the current Administration."
Not far from the barbershop, Alan Fouts was renovating a 119-year-old Victorian Gothic building, said, "I'm afraid a vote for Perot would elect Bill Clinton." A charter plane pilot, he said Mr. Perot was a "credible force last time," but not now. "This time he seems to be going through the motions."
Jerry Savitz, owner of two Belfast restaurants, said that he was heavily involved in Mr. Perot's 1992 campaign, but that he would not vote for him again, in part because he found him "so mercurial."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ross Perot carried Waldo County, Me., in 1992, but his support has largely vanished this year. "I don't think he can make it," said Roger T. Newcomb of Swanville, a Perot voter last time, "so I haven't paid attention." (Joel A. Page for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%); AUGUSTA, ME, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (51%); REFORM PARTY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REFORM PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WALDO COUNTY (MAINE); MAINE; UNITED STATES (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%); AUGUSTA, ME, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (64%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; TOLLERSON, ERNEST BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996



599 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: U.S. AND NATO PLAN NEW BOSNIA FORCE

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25

 BODY:
Although the White House has maintained a deliberate silence for fear of provoking pre-election controversy, the United States and NATO have begun preparations to field a smaller but still sizable international peacekeeping force in Bosnia that would include at least 5,000 American troops.
In a week in which Bosnia's potentially volatile municipal elections were delayed until next year, Administration officials, NATO leaders and European diplomats said active planning was under way for a force of 15,000 to 30,000 troops who would remain in Bosnia at least through 1997. 
 While some details remain unresolved, the officials in Washington and Europe said the new force would have essentially the same mission as the nearly 60,000 troops, including more than 15,000 Americans, who have patrolled Bosnia for nearly a year as part of the peace accords negotiated last fall in Dayton, Ohio, to end four years of civil war.
As they discuss military options with the NATO allies, American officials have taken pains to note that formal approval for an American role has to come from President Clinton.
And the President's aides insist that he will not make his final decision until the United States and NATO agree next month, after the Presidential election, on the exact scope of the mission.
But officials in Europe said that in recent meetings there was unanimous agreement among countries that now have troops in Bosnia, including the United States, that a sizable ground force would be necessary to insure Bosnia's tenuous stability and prevent a resumption of fighting between Muslims and Serbs.
Britain and France, the other main countries involved, insist they will not field troops if the Americans do not.
But NATO officials say the United States has essentially signaled its commitment, most recently at a meeting in Brussels last week and in recent visits to NATO headquarters in Brussels by Defense Secretary William J. Perry and the deputy national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger.
"You know full well that there has to be a military presence," a senior European diplomat in the Balkans said this week. "There will be." And, the diplomat added, the United States would put American troops on the ground "without a shadow of a doubt."
"They haven't said it specifically, but there are nods and winks," the diplomat said. "And there is planning."
The issue is politically delicate for Mr. Clinton.
When he first committed troops late last year, he pledged that they would be home by the end of 1996, although from the start aides said the deadline was merely an approximation. In recent months the Administration has acknowledged that a few thousand troops would remain until March to oversee a gradual withdrawal.
Republicans in Congress have charged the President with deceiving the public about the longer-term commitment, even as Administration officials have insisted that decisions about future troops in Bosnia have not been made.
While the Administration touts the peace accords as one of the President's foreign policy successes, Mr. Clinton's aides worry that a decision to keep troops in Bosnia could become an issue in the Presidential campaign, though the potential for voter backlash may have faded since the operation so far has produced almost no conflict or casualties.
Earlier this month NATO's defense ministers, meeting in Bergen, Norway, ordered military planners to consider four options for an international force in Bosnia, once the current force's mandate expires in December.
They range from a renewal of the current force level to a complete withdrawal. In between, the options are a reduced force or a still smaller force backed up by mobile units stationed near Bosnia.
The United States, however, has all but ruled out the extreme options. "The focus of the study," an Administration official said, "is on the middle two options."
While the immediate threat of war has declined since the Dayton accords and the arrival of the international peacekeepers, Bosnia and Herzegovina remains a volatile place. A number of issues supposed to have been resolved under the peace accords remain potential flash points, including freedom of movement and the return of refugees to their homes.
National elections held last month created a three-member Presidency, led by the Bosnian chairman, Alija Izetbegovic. But the three men have so far failed to establish the national institutions called for or to make much headway against the suspicions left over from four years of war.
With the threat of fighting eased, Administration and NATO officials said they now believed that a smaller force would be sufficient to keep peace. Under the plans now being considered, the new force would continue to operate in American, British and French sectors, but would not require the large, highly visible and heavily armed patrols of the first year.
The force, officials in Washington and in Europe said, would include at least 5,000 American troops on the ground, and perhaps as many as 10,000. Some may be stationed "over the horizon," in mobile units based in neighboring states like Hungary or Croatia, or aboard aircraft carriers in the Adriatic Sea, ready to respond quickly if fighting breaks out.
That, the officials said, was an option favored by some American military commanders.
The United States and NATO must still decide on the extent of the future mission, which will in turn dictate the exact number of troops needed, although officials agreed that it would be in the range of 15,000 to 30,000.
Canada, for instance, has advocated expanding the mission to include pursuing suspects wanted for war crimes, but NATO officials said it was unlikely the force would change its current policy under which troops will arrest suspects only if they encounter them.
Other issues under discussion involve the force's role in monitoring arms-control agreements and in backing up a strengthened international police force.
The decision by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to again postpone the municipal elections has added to the need for a extended military presence.
An Administration official said the municipal elections, now scheduled for the spring, would require "a high security component"; one plan under consideration would beef up the peacekeeping force for the election period and then draw it down again.
"Until they know what all of those bits and pieces of security-related goals will be, they can't know the number of troops," the official said.
NATO's military planners are expected to complete a menu of recommendations by next week or the first week of November. NATO's governing body, the North Atlantic Council, will not consider the recommendations at least until its next meeting, on Nov. 6, the day after the American elections.
An overarching concern still to be resolved is an "exit strategy" for the new force, with specific plans and deadlines for withdrawing, rather than an open-ended commitment.
While some allies have discussed a two-year commitment to coincide with the economic and relief efforts under the Dayton accords, the officials said it was more likely that the United States and NATO would agree on a one-year extension of the peacekeepers.
American officials have said their program of sending heavy weapons to the Muslim-dominated Government, to balance the better-armed Serbs, was needed to allow foreign troops to leave.
That program's start has been delayed, and many European officials think it is misguided to put more weapons into the region.
A senior Administration official said setting a clear deadline was important to the future of Bosnia so that the factions there begin to take on responsibility for keeping peace and promoting stability.
"It's important to remind the Bosnians," the official said, "that the international community is not going to be there for a generation."
 A correction on Monday further misstated the site of the talks; none were held in the United States.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 1996, MondayOctober 31, 1996, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about preparations by the United States and NATO for a peacekeeping force in Bosnia next year misstated the location of recent discussions on the issue. Defense Secretary William J. Perry attended alliance meetings in Bergen, Norway; Samuel R. Berger, the deputy national security adviser, met with NATO foreign ministers in the United States. The talks were not at NATO headquarters in Brussels.

Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about preparations by the United States and NATO for a peacekeeping force in Bosnia next year misstated the role of Samuel R. Berger, the deputy national security adviser, and misstated the location of the talks. Mr. Berger was not involved in discussions on the subject with NATO foreign ministers. And the meetings were in Bergen, Norway, not at NATO headquarters in Brussels.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA ; UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); CIVIL WAR (72%); APPROVALS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); CITIES (56%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MYERS, STEVEN LEE BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1996



600 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Your Mission, Should You Accept It

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Whoever wins next week's Presidential election will have to immediately launch an intense round of diplomatic negotiations. Sitting across the table from the next President in these negotiations will be the prickliest of foes: some will be Neanderthals who make the Afghan Taliban mullahs seem like progressives; some will be power-mad egomaniacs; only a few will be allies. The President won't need Air Force One to get to these talks, though. The limo will do. He will, however, need a translator. Because the President's first foreign affairs negotiation is going to have to be with the 105th Congress.
Why? Because the U.S. foreign affairs budget has been cut so sharply (51 percent in real terms since 1984) and the U.S. is now so deeply in arrears to the U.N., the World Bank and the World Health Organization (which are owed more than $2 billion) and the foreign aid budget has been reduced so far (Egypt and Israel now get almost the whole thing) that the ability of the next President to maintain U.S. leadership and conduct real preventive diplomacy will be severely handicapped unless he can cut a new "Grand Bargain" with Congress. 
 There is now so little discretionary money left in the foreign affairs budget that the only way to pay for the recent elections in Bosnia was to take the money away from the NATO expansion program, Partnership for Peace. One reason the Kurds in Northern Iraq got embroiled in a civil war was a fight over money, after the U.S. failed to come up with aid. The only way the U.S. can help fund the Guatemalan peace process is to take money away from the Haitian one.
More U.S. ambassadors have been killed than U.S. generals since World War II. No matter, the Congress ordered the Pentagon to spend $6 billion more than it asked for last year, while telling the State Department to close 30-some embassies and consulates and shut down 25 percent of the U.S.I.A. libraries around the world, which spread the gospel of democracy and free markets. Few people at State have access to the Internet at their computers because there isn't money to buy modems. Craig Johnstone, director of resources at State, noted that we now spend about as much supporting democratization in Russian as we do expanding the H.O.V. lane on Route 66 into Washington.
There is nothing wrong with trimming the foreign affairs budget, or with streamlining the system. But it should be done with a sense of priorities, not by putting on a blindfold and hacking away at it as if it were a pinata. Look where we are today: An increasing share of U.S. income now comes from exports. American values are triumphing from Mongolia to Moscow. American quality of life is now much more threatened by global trends -- the Ebola Virus, population explosions, environmental disasters or the chaos of countries melting down from within -- than from any armed foe. Yet precisely at such a moment we are trashing the U.N., underfunding development banks that help countries help themselves, closing embassies and telling the Pentagon to spend more than it needs. That's insane.
Or as Secretary of State Warren Christopher remarked: "We cannot advance American interests by lowering the American flag."
What to do? The next President must take this issue up with Congress himself. He personally has to make it a priority. The President should also enlist the Joint Chiefs of Staff in his lobbying. Let the generals explain to Congress the importance of having sufficient diplomatic resources so troops aren't the only option. Moreover, President Clinton, if he does win, should appoint several well-known Republican foreign policy figures to his team. Without a real bipartisan approach, no progress on the foreign affairs budget will be possible.
Finally, the next President will have to embark on a major re-education campaign with Congress. That core group of senators who supported foreign aid and who traveled the world is retiring: Sam Nunn, Mark Hatfield, Bill Bradley, William Cohen, Claiborne Pell, Nancy Kassebaum, Paul Simon, Hank Brown and Bob Dole. The President needs to help nurture a whole new foreign policy generation, and he could start by giving them political cover for traveling. Lawmakers, fearful of being accused of junketing, don't travel anymore. Those who don't travel don't know. Those who don't know don't care.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN QUALITY CERAMICS (50%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (54%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (54%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WORLD WAR II (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); TALIBAN (72%); RELIGION (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); DISABLED PERSONS (66%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996

 
