

201 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: With Delphi Filing, Tougher Times for Auto Industry Workers

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
When Delphi, the nation's largest auto supplier, filed for bankruptcy on Saturday, it was the latest blow to the American auto worker's gilded age. 
 Ninety-one years ago, Henry Ford shocked corporate America by abruptly announcing that he would roughly double his workers' average wages, to $5 a day. For the first time, many Ford line workers could afford the Model T's they were assembling.
In recent decades, once-powerful labor unions like the Teamsters and United Steelworkers and, most recently, airline workers have been in retreat. At the same time, the United Automobile Workers, Delphi's largest labor union, has maintained some of the highest wages and most generous benefits in industry, even as its membership has been cut in half since the 1970's. 
 But the bankruptcy filing will be a major test. 
 ''It is a crossroads,'' said Gary N. Chaison, a professor of industrial relations at Clark University in Worcester, Mass. ''These were the aristocrats of labor, and now they're in the position that their jobs are going to become lower-wage manufacturing jobs, as if they were producing hairdryers.''
 ''The ramifications from Delphi are going to be tremendous,'' he added. ''The union is going to have to assume a defensive position, and this is a union that's used to being on the offensive.''
 The challenge comes as the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which includes the auto workers' union, is going through an identity crisis. A few prominent unions have recently split from its ranks in a dispute over how best to salvage the labor movement. Should the U.A.W. be forced into major concessions for Delphi, or should the bankruptcy court force a sharp cut in wages and benefits, it would influence the U.A.W.'s negotiations with General Motors, Ford and the Chrysler division of DaimlerChrysler to replace its labor contract, which expires in 2007. 
 Delphi, a division of G.M. until 1999, is seeking to cut pay for its 34,000 unionized workers by as much as two-thirds, to as little as $10 an hour. One union local pointed out in a letter to its members that at those wages, they could no longer afford to buy the new cars that contained the parts they produce.
 ''You couldn't even afford the gas,'' Douglas A. Fraser, the former president of the U.A.W., said in an interview on Saturday. ''The guys, particularly the veteran guys, are willing to do something, but not completely emasculate the agreement.''
 Whether Delphi, which has lost $5.5 billion over the last six quarters, can actually succeed in making such steep cuts, even while in bankruptcy, remains to be seen, and the union could strike if its contract is canceled in court. 
 What is clear is that the enviable wages and benefits Delphi workers have enjoyed are going to be harshly recalibrated to account for global competition, and that more of the company's work will be shipped abroad. And the cuts that have swept through domestic auto suppliers -- several others are already bankrupt -- are seen as a likely prelude to changes that will eventually reach G.M., Ford and Chrysler, as they have swept through other old-line American industries struggling to compete globally.
 ''If we're going to operate these factories, we need competitive wages and benefits,'' Robert S. Miller, Delphi's chairman and chief executive of the last three months, said in an interview on Saturday. ''I don't think this is the end of life as we know it, but our customers won't pay for these premium wages and benefits.''
 Bill Wineland, a 49-year-old line worker at a Delphi plant in Flint, Mich., had a different perspective. 
 ''Who's going to afford to buy these cars? Nobody making $10 or $12 an hour can afford a $30,000 automobile,'' he said. ''Henry Ford said a long, long time ago that people should have enough money to buy my product. Everybody thought that was crazy, but he made it work.''
 Mr. Ford was by no stretch of the imagination a saint, or even particularly consistent. In his later years he would cut wages, and his company would have bitter confrontations with the fledging unions. But his $5-a-day wage was a transforming event. Within a week of Ford's announcement in January 1914, more than 10,000 job seekers descended on a Ford plant despite near-zero temperatures and blizzards, leading the police to turn fire hoses on the crowd in a failed attempt to prevent a riot. 
 ''We want those who have helped us to produce this great institution and are helping to maintain it to share our prosperity,'' said James Couzens, Ford's treasurer at the time and the man many historical accounts credit with the idea of the $5 wage, in part as a motivational tool. 
 Of course, Ford did not have to compete against Toyota, Honda and Nissan then. Or against the wages and benefits offered in Mexico or China or Thailand. And therein lies the unraveling of the compensation that was negotiated over decades by the U.A.W., including health care coverage with no monthly premiums and formidable protections against loss of jobs. 
 Jonathan Steinmetz, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said he did not see the Big Three necessarily coming to the same crossroad as their domestic suppliers. The competitive pressures are intense, but not the same, because Toyota and other foreign competitors are building more plants in the United States and paying wages and benefits somewhat comparable to the Big Three's. Automobiles sold in the United States are not yet being assembled in China, though parts are being made there. 
 What will not likely be sustained, however, are the benefits. G.M. spends $1,500 a vehicle on health care, more than it spends on steel. Every American G.M. worker supports nearly three retirees. 
 ''It's hard to have a deflationary environment for car prices and health care inflation of 10 percent,'' Mr. Steinmetz said. 
 Delphi's filing could push G.M. closer to a revamping. Delphi said in its bankruptcy filing that it would seek to stop paying health care and life insurance benefits for its 12,000 American retirees. G.M. had agreed to pay those benefits in the event of bankruptcy. And while Delphi's pensions could potentially be the latest multibillion-dollar plan thrust on the government, G.M. also agreed to pay pension benefits above the portion the government insures. 
 In all, G.M. said this weekend that the filing could increase the long-term liabilities on its books by as much as $11 billion. Having lost more than $2 billion in the first half of 2005, G.M. can ill afford new financial burdens. 
 The Delphi that emerges from bankruptcy will have a smaller, poorer work force. Currently, Delphi's American workers make about $65 to $70 an hour including benefits, more than 10 times, at least, the compensation of workers doing similar jobs in Mexico and China. Delphi wants trims that would take that below $20 an hour, in part by cutting wages to $10 to $12 an hour from $26 to $30. 
 Workers were particularly embittered when Delphi made an 11th-hour move, a day ahead of its filing, to sweeten substantially the severance packages available to 21 top managers. The company said it was a necessary step to retain executives.
 ''It's a slap in the face,'' said Al Coven, president of a union local in Saginaw, Mich. ''They've always done stuff like that. Over the years we've had downturns in the economy. We give stuff up and they turn around and give their executives big bonuses.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Delphi makes parts for G.M. plants like this one in Oklahoma City. (Photo by Nate Billings/The Oklahoman, via Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 Robert S. Miller, Delphi's chief, wants to cut wages and benefits. (Photo by Carlos Osorio/Associated Press)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); INTERVIEWS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (56%) OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



202 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Fund Faces Questions About Money of Investors

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
At a time when several hedge funds have run into trouble, questions are now being raised about a once high-flying fund after investors were not able to find out what had happened to their money.
 Calls to the offices of the fund, Wood River Partners LP, in San Francisco and Ketchum, Idaho, and to its manger, have not been returned, lawyers for investors say.
 The Securities and Exchange Commission has begun an investigation of the fund, according to one person briefed on the inquiry.
 ''We've been contacted by several investors who invested in Wood River and are concerned about the investments made on their behalf through the partnership and the value of those investments,'' said Ron S. Geffner, head of the hedge fund practice at the New York law firm of Sadis & Goldberg. ''There appears to be considerable speculation in the marketplace, which has heightened investors' worries due to the departure of several employees and the appearance that the offices of the management entities are closed.'' 
 Wood River was promoted to investors as a long-short equity fund, meaning it could buy stocks and hold them or bet that a company's stock price would fall. It was founded in 2003 by John Whittier, a former media and telecommunications analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. 
 In an 11-page letter to investors written earlier this year, Mr. Whittier wrote extensively about events in the market, including the Federal Reserve's continued increases in interest rates, oil prices and volatility. 
 ''The more challenging market conditions reinforces our investment thesis that superior market sector selection and stock picking, and being nimble, are all critical components in our approach for creating positive financial returns,'' Mr. Whittier wrote. 
 In that letter, dated Feb. 28, 2005, Mr. Whittier indicated that Wood River had net returns of 4.6 percent for the first two months of the year, compared with a drop of 0.7 percent in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and a 5.7 percent decline in Nasdaq composite index. Hedge fund marketers who had spoken with Mr. Whittier this summer indicated the fund had performed well in April, a month that had been very difficult for many hedge funds. 
 Mr. Whittier also indicated that he was invested in Wal-Mart, Qualcomm and Yahoo, as well as Pfizer, Amgen and EchoStar and had bet against stocks in the luxury homes and metals sectors. 
 According to the same letter, the hedge fund posted a 22.8 percent net gain in 2004, compared with a 9.0 percent gain in the S.&P. 500 and an 8.6 percent gain in Nasdaq. 
 According to marketing materials distributed in 2003, Wood River had no management fee, but it charged a performance fee of 20 percent of profits, when profits were 5 percent or more. The investment approach was described as ''invest for the long-term, while capturing near-term volatility through opportunistic trading.'' The fund had a six-month lockup period and a minimum investment of $500,000 for accredited investors and $1 million for institutions. 
 Regulatory filings indicate that Wood River set up an offshore fund in May 2005 in the Cayman Islands. 
 Its materials indicated that its prime brokers were Morgan Stanley and Salomon Smith Barney. Later marketing materials included UBS. None of the banks would comment last week on Wood River.
 Clients who had contacted the banks said Morgan Stanley and Salomon Smith Barney did not manage the accounts; UBS has a small part of the holdings. The firm's auditor is listed as American Express Tax and Business Services Inc.
 Calls to Mr. Whittier's San Francisco office were directed to his voice mailbox, which was full, while messages to the Ketchum, Idaho, office were not returned.
 According to Mr. Whittier's biographical materials, included in the 2003 marketing materials, Mr. Whittier received a bachelor's degree from the University of California, Berkley in 1989. He had 10 years experience in the securities industry. From 1991 through 1997 he worked for Donaldson Lufkin as a vice president responsible for covering media and communications companies, specifically cable, broadcasting and wireless industries. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Hedge Funds; Mutual Funds; Short Selling

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (54%); PFIZER INC (51%); AMGEN INC (51%); QUALCOMM INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Wood River Partners; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFEB (BRU) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (51%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: John Whittier; Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



203 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4931 words

HEADLINE: As Polar Ice Turns to Water, Dreams of Treasure Abound

BYLINE: This article is by Clifford Krauss, Steven Lee Myers, Andrew C. Revkin and Simon Romero.; Clifford Krauss reported from Canada for this article, Steven Lee Myers from Russia, Andrew C. Revkin from New Hampshire and Washington, and Simon Romero from Norway. Craig Duff contributed reporting from Canada, Norway, Russia and Alaska.

DATELINE: CHURCHILL, Manitoba 

 BODY:
It seems harsh to say that bad news for polar bears is good for Pat Broe. Mr. Broe, a Denver entrepreneur, is no more to blame than anyone else for a meltdown at the top of the world that threatens Arctic mammals and ancient traditions and lends credibility to dark visions of global warming. 
 Still, the newest study of the Arctic ice cap -- finding that it faded this summer to its smallest size ever recorded -- is beginning to make Mr. Broe look like a visionary for buying this derelict Hudson Bay port from the Canadian government in 1997. Especially at the price he paid: about $7.
By Mr. Broe's calculations, Churchill could bring in as much as $100 million a year as a port on Arctic shipping lanes shorter by thousands of miles than routes to the south, and traffic would only increase as the retreat of ice in the region clears the way for a longer shipping season. 
 With major companies and nations large and small adopting similar logic, the Arctic is undergoing nothing less than a great rush for virgin territory and natural resources worth hundreds of billions of dollars. Even before the polar ice began shrinking more each summer, countries were pushing into the frigid Barents Sea, lured by undersea oil and gas fields and emboldened by advances in technology. But now, as thinning ice stands to simplify construction of drilling rigs, exploration is likely to move even farther north. 
 Last year, scientists found tantalizing hints of oil in seabed samples just 200 miles from the North Pole. All told, one quarter of the world's undiscovered oil and gas resources lies in the Arctic, according to the United States Geological Survey. 
 The polar thaw is also starting to unlock other treasures: lucrative shipping routes, perhaps even the storied Northwest Passage; new cruise ship destinations; and important commercial fisheries.
 ''It's the positive side of global warming, if there is a positive side,'' said Ron Lemieux, the transportation minister of Manitoba, whose provincial government is investing millions in Churchill.
 If the melting continues, as many Arctic experts expect, the mass of floating ice that has crowned the planet for millions of years may largely disappear for entire summers this century. Instead of the white wilderness that killed explorers and defeated navigators for centuries, the world would have a blue pole on top, a seasonally open sea nearly five times the size of the Mediterranean.
 But if the Arctic is no longer a frozen backyard, the fences matter. For now it is not clear where those fences are. Under a treaty called the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, territory is determined by how far a nation's continental shelf extends into the sea. Under the treaty, countries have limited time after ratifying it to map the sea floor and make claims. 
 In 2001, Russia made the first move, staking out virtually half the Arctic Ocean, including the North Pole. But after challenges by other nations, including the United States, Russia sought to bolster its claim by sending a research ship north to gather more geographical data. On Aug. 29, it reached the pole without the help of an icebreaker -- the first ship ever to do so. 
 The United States, an Arctic nation itself because of Alaska, could also try to expand its territory. But several senators who oppose any possible infringement on American sovereignty have repeatedly blocked ratification of the treaty. 
 Indeed, not everyone agrees that warming of the Arctic merits concern. No one knows what share of the recent thawing can be attributed to natural cycles and how much to heat-trapping pollution linked to recent global warming, and some scientists and government officials, particularly in Russia, are dismissive of assertions that a permanent change is at hand. 
 ''We are not going to have apple trees growing in Vorkuta,'' said the mayor of that coal-mining city, Igor L. Shpektor, who is also the president of Russia's union of Arctic cities and towns. 
 But the current thaw is already real enough for the four million people within the Arctic Circle, including about 150,000 Inuit. ''As long as it's ice,'' said Sheila Watt-Cloutier, leader of a transnational Inuit group, ''nobody cares except us, because we hunt and fish and travel on that ice. However, the minute it starts to thaw and becomes water, then the whole world is interested.''
 Increasingly, big corporations, the eight countries with Arctic footholds and other nations farther south are betting on the possibility of a great transformation. Energy-hungry China has set up a research station on the Norwegian island of Spitsbergen and twice deployed its icebreaker Snow Dragon, which normally works in Antarctica, to northern waters to conduct climate research. 
 Interest in Arctic-hardy vessels has picked up so much that in January, Aker Finnyards, a giant shipbuilder based in Helsinki, created a subsidiary just to develop ice-hardened ships. Its new double-ended tanker slips smoothly through open water bow first but can spin around and use an icebreakerlike stern to smash through heavy floes. A Finnish energy company bought two for about $90 million apiece, and after buying one Russia licensed the design and is building two more. 
 In January, the State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and Research held a closed two-day meeting to hear from experts on the implications of a warming, opening Arctic. 
 ''There are likely to be a number of foreign-policy issues that must be addressed by the United States and other nations'' if the climate trends persist, said a summary of the meeting. ''These issues include the availability and potential for exploitation of energy, fisheries and other resources; access to new sea routes; new claims under Law of the Sea; national security; and others.''
 A look at a map of the globe with the North Pole at its center explains why a new frontier matters. Some countries that one might think of as being half a world part appear as startlingly close neighbors, and relatively speaking, they are. 
 In the days of empire, Rudyard Kipling called jockeying among world powers in Central Asia the Great Game. Christopher Weafer, an energy analyst with Alfa Bank in Moscow, says this new Arctic rush is ''the Great Game in a cold climate.''

The Petroleum Rush
 To understand the practical terms of this new competition for territory, opportunity and resources, a good place to begin is Hammerfest, Norway, one of the northernmost towns in the world and one of 12 Arctic settlements visited over six months by correspondents of The New York Times preparing this series of articles. 
 Hammerfest, once an austerely beautiful fishing village burned to the ground by the Nazis in World War II, is starting to swell with young people from other parts of Norway, Finland, Russia and Asia, as well as with highly trained technical workers from Europe and North America. They are drawn by Snohvit (in English, Snow White), a mammoth complex being built to receive natural gas piped from the Barents Sea and liquefy the gas for shipping. 
 The Norwegian government, which controls Snohvit in part through its majority ownership of the energy company Statoil, is desperate for Snohvit to be a success and put the country in the forefront of Arctic energy exploration. Being first, however, has had its challenges in the severe operating environment of the High North, as Arctic areas are called in Norway. Overruns have put the price of Snohvit at $8.8 billion, almost 50 percent above its original estimate.
 The project has a firm backer in John Doyle Ong, the blunt United States ambassador in Oslo. Snohvit is scheduled to start sending liquefied natural gas to the Cove Point port in Maryland in 2007, just as American imports of liquefied gas from competing sources in the Middle East and Africa are set to rise rapidly. Importing natural gas from a stable country like Norway -- already the world's third-largest oil exporter, after Saudi Arabia and Russia -- is a rare option these days. 
 ''Norway's importance to the United States in terms of our national energy policy is increasing with every passing year,'' Mr. Ong said.
 But the United States' interests go beyond that -- too far beyond for many in Norway. In September, the opening of frontier areas in the Barents and Norwegian Seas emerged as a central issue in elections that brought a leftist coalition to power, with some coalition members favoring a ban on Arctic oil and gas exploration in environmentally sensitive areas. 
 And besides supporting Snohvit, Mr. Ong, a former energy executive, has stepped into disputes between Norway and Russia over a large gray zone in the Barents. His insistence that Arctic-related matters be ''trilateral'' rather than bilateral is viewed as belligerent by some Norwegians. 
 In private, Norwegian officials welcome the heft of the United States in its negotiations with Russia. Norway is eager to resolve the territorial dispute so that some order, and Norwegian drilling expertise and environmental standards, can be imposed on Arctic exploration. Because as large as Snohvit is, it is dwarfed by a far bigger gas field to the east in Russian waters. That field, called Shtokman, is being developed by Gazprom, Russia's gas behemoth.
 In September, Gazprom selected five companies -- Statoil and Norsk Hydro from Norway, Total from France and Chevron and ConocoPhillips -- as finalists in a search for partners to develop Shtokman, in the Barents Sea, 350 miles north of Russia's Kola Peninsula. The development costs are estimated at $15 billion to $20 billion. The field is reported to hold more than double all of Canada's gas reserves.
 ''They're going to find more of them,'' Mr. Weafer, the Moscow-based energy analyst, said of Arctic gas deposits. ''It's the next energy frontier.''
 And while natural gas is certainly valued, the prize that is generating the biggest interest is oil. Virtually every large international energy company is studying how eventually to win permission from Norway and Russia to explore in the Barents, and the Norwegian Polar Institute has been contacted repeatedly by oil companies to explore the feasibility of drilling in the icier waters north of Spitsbergen.
 Jan-Gunnar Winther, director of the institute, said the seasonal melting of the polar cap might allow access to more petroleum deposits but also create more challenges. 
 ''A warmer climate in the north would mean more icebergs, rather than less,'' he said. ''There will be obstacles in getting to the petroleum, but if oil prices stay high there will be enticements as well.''
 A push into the Barents Sea could help redraw the politics of energy allegiances, and gas in particular puts Russia in a strong position. ''It has a good chance of becoming a more effective counterbalance to OPEC,'' Mr. Weafer said. 
 As for Norway, the warming world gives it the chance to seek influence far beyond its size. Energy-hungry countries that might have written off the Arctic not long ago are showing considerable interest in Norway's opening of the Barents; one visitor to Oslo in September was India's oil minister, seeking a role in exploration. And if a route farther north opens just four or five months of the year, Norway could even become a major supplier of oil and gas to China, said Sverre Lodgaard, director of the Norwegian Institute for International Affairs. 
 Norway is trying to position itself as ''a dwarf among giants,'' Mayor Alf Jakobsen of Hammerfest said. ''We're attracting young people to Hammerfest instead of sending them away, for the first time in years. The opportunity to become a springboard into the Arctic is upon us.''

Fisheries Head North
 Charlie Lean easily recalls when he realized that big changes were sweeping the fish stocks along the northern shores of Alaska. 
 Just over 10 years ago, when Mr. Lean was the state's fisheries manager for the northwest region, a call came in from the tiny Eskimo outpost of Kivalina, on the Chukchi Sea 150 miles northeast of the Bering Strait. A village elder was reporting ''a massive fish kill'' in the Wulik River, Mr. Lean said. Everyone assumed it was from some toxic spill upriver at the giant Red Dog zinc mine.
 ''I rounded up a plane and blasted off and flew up there,'' he said. ''Flying overhead I could see right away it was the end of a pink salmon run. They were dying of natural causes as they always do once they spawn.''
 The elders had never seen a run of this salmon species. But they have shown up every year since.
 The colonization of new rivers by pink salmon is just one of many changes in fish and crab stocks that appear linked to retreating sea ice and warming waters in the Chukchi Sea and, farther south, the Bering Sea. The changes are important because the Bering is rich with pollock, salmon, halibut and crab, already yielding nearly half of America's seafood catch and a third of Russia's. 
 Recent studies have projected that in a few decades there could be lucrative fishing grounds in waters that were largely untouched throughout human history. 
 In a 2002 report for the Navy on climate change and the Arctic Ocean, the Arctic Research Commission, a panel appointed by the president, concluded that species were moving north through the Bering Strait. ''Climate warming is likely to bring extensive fishing activity to the Arctic, particularly in the Barents Sea and Beaufort-Chukchi region where commercial operations have been minimal in the past,'' the report said. ''In addition, Bering Sea fishing opportunities will increase as sea ice cover begins later and ends sooner in the year.'' 
 But problems could emerge, as well, as stocks shift from the waters of one country to those of another. Snow crabs, for example, appear to be moving away from Alaska, north and west toward Russia, as the sea ice retreats. They depend on nutrients that sink to the bottom from algae growing under the ice. The valuable fishery could eventually move entirely out of American waters, some federal fisheries scientists said. 
 The fishing industry, a business where surviving one year to the next is the main worry, has largely not taken notice of the changes, although American crab boats are finding they have to steam farther and farther to haul in a decent catch. 
 ''If the crabs move over into the Russian zone,'' said Glenn Reed, the president of the Pacific Seafood Processors Association in Seattle, ''there's not much to be done about that except hope they come back someday.''

Who Governs What
 ''Stalin once just drew a line from Murmansk to the North Pole and then to Chukchi and said, 'U.S.S.R. Polar Region' -- and nobody worried about it,'' said Artur N. Chilingarov, an Arctic explorer and deputy speaker of Russia's lower house of Parliament. 
 Now, instead of Stalin, the lines will be drawn by an international commission and the geography of the seabed itself. 
 That means that the Arctic land grab could be decided in part inside a lab at the University of New Hampshire in Durham. There, at the Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping, scientists are studying sonar scans of the seabed from a 2002 expedition on a United States Coast Guard icebreaker in waters north of Barrow, Alaska. 
 In the lab, Larry Mayer, the center's director, gave a reporter a joystick-driven virtual tour of the seabed two miles beneath the ice. The ocean appeared on a wall-size screen as a basin with ridges and valleys dropping into the depths around the edges, representing oceanographers' best guess at the topography before the expedition. Then Dr. Mayer pushed a button, adding depth data from the survey, which used new multibeam sonar. Suddenly a giant underwater mountain sprouted up 10,000 feet where the old chart had shown only a vague bump. 
 One of the old depth-sounding voyages had passed within a few miles but missed it. ''That's the state of our knowledge,'' said Dr. Mayer, who named the undersea mountain Healy, after the icebreaker. 
 Such physical features matter enormously to nations seeking to expand their undersea territory under a murky clause, Article 76, in the Law of the Sea. With only fragments of the Arctic ever surveyed, by icebreaker or nuclear submarine, various countries are mounting new mapping expeditions to claim the most territory they can. 
 The exclusive economic zone controlled by a country generally extends 230 miles from its shores. But under Article 76, that zone can expand if a nation can convince other parties to the treaty that there is a ''natural prolongation'' of its continental shelf beyond that limit. 
 The shelf is the relatively shallow extension of a landmass to the point where the bottom drops into the oceanic abyss. But in many places, the drop-off is a gentle slope or is connected to long-submerged ridges that, if precisely mapped, might add thousands of square miles to a country's exploitable seabed. 
 Claims of expanded territory are being pursued the world over, but the Arctic Ocean is where experts foresee the most conflict. Only there do the boundaries of five nations -- Russia, Canada, Denmark, Norway and the United States -- converge, the way sections of an orange meet at the stem. (The three other Arctic nations, Iceland, Sweden and Finland, do not have coasts on the ocean.)
 ''The area does get to be a bit crowded,'' said Peter Croker, chairman of the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf, which assesses claims. It is composed of experts appointed by countries that ratified the treaty. 
 Disputes over overlapping claims must be worked out by the countries involved, but the commission weighs control over areas that would otherwise remain international waters.
 Countries that ratified the treaty before May 13, 1999, have until May 13, 2009, to make claims. Other countries have 10 years from their date of ratification.
 Russia adopted the treaty in 1997, and four years later laid claim to nearly half the Arctic Ocean. The commission's technical panel rejected the claim, and now Russia hopes the recent voyage of its research ship Akademik Fyodorov to the North Pole will yield mapping data in its favor. 
 In June, Denmark and Canada announced that they would conduct a joint surveying project of uncharted parts of the Arctic Ocean near their coasts. 
 Denmark is particularly interested in proving that a 1,000-mile undersea mountain range, the Lomonosov Ridge, is linked geologically to Greenland, which is semiautonomous Danish territory. If it finds such a link, Denmark could make a case that the North Pole belongs to the Danes, Danish officials have said.
 Canada could also claim a huge area, and then face challenges from the other Arctic nations. The United States could petition for a swath of Arctic seabed larger than California, according to rough estimates by Dr. Mayer and other scientists. But while the government financed Dr. Mayer's survey, it has not made a definitive move toward staking a claim. 
 American ratification of the Law of the Sea treaty has repeatedly been blocked by a small group of Republican senators, now led by Senator James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma. They say, among other things, that the treaty would infringe on American sovereignty.
 In a Senate hearing last year, Mr. Inhofe said, ''I'm very troubled about implications of this convention on our national security.'' The deadlock has persisted even though the Bush administration in 2002 described ratification of the Law of the Sea and four other treaties as an ''urgent need.'' 
 Many proponents of the treaty, including the Pentagon, the American Petroleum Institute and Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, say this paralysis leaves the United States on the sidelines while others carve up an ocean. 
 ''We need to be in the game, at the table, talking about fisheries management, mineral extraction, freedom of navigation,'' said Adm. James D. Watkins, a retired chief of naval operations who is chairman of the United States Commission on Ocean Policy. 
 Mr. McCain said, ''I think what it would require really is a hard push from the president.''
 Treaty or no, territorial disputes ultimately imply questions about a country's ability to defend its interests. Here, too, the United States has shown less urgency while Canada has acted more aggressively to ensure sovereignty over a fast-changing domain it had long neglected. 
 Already, oil tanker traffic is rising and fishing boats are going farther north. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police is concerned that melting seaways could make it easier for narcotics traffickers to reach indigenous communities, and for organized crime to exploit the growing diamond trade. And the United States, which disputes Canada's control over parts of the petroleum-rich Beaufort Sea, has in the past sent vessels unannounced through other Arctic waters that Canada claims.
 Three years ago Canada began patrolling the most remote Arctic reaches with army rangers, a mostly Eskimo force of 1,500 irregulars. Next year the military plans to launch Radarsat 2, a satellite system that will allow surveillance of the Arctic and sea approaches as far as 1,000 miles offshore. 
 The military is also buying three reinforced tankers to supply ships patrolling the north. The fleet of Twin Otters, the primary surveillance and transport planes in the north since the 1960's, will be replaced with bigger, faster transports. And senior officials are touring places that offer little but symbolic value. 
 Canada's aim is not only to tighten control of its territory, but also to establish a strong posture in future talks over the Northwest Passage, the long-sought shortcut from Europe to Asia across the top of Canada. 
 Bill Graham, the defense minister, said, ''I don't see the Northwest Passage as something for another 20 years, but at the rate of present global warming, we know that it will be within 20 years and we have to get ahead now.'' This summer he made a point of visiting Hans Island, a two-mile-long rock claimed by both Canada and Denmark. 
 The Pentagon has focused elsewhere. The Navy spent up to $25 million a year on polar research in the 1990's, and in April 2001 produced a report warning that weapons and ships were not designed with arctic conditions in mind, and that charts, navigational systems and support networks were inadequate for the north. 
 ''Safe navigation and precision weapons delivery capability,'' the report said, ''may be significantly constrained unless these shortfalls are addressed.'' 
 But in the budget shake-up after the Sept. 11 attacks, the Navy severely reduced spending for polar research. 
 At the same time, America's three large icebreakers are deteriorating. One of them, the Polar Sea, is inoperable and docked in Seattle, where it is being readied for a year or two of repairs. No replacements are planned.

Three Shipping Passages
 Churchill, Manitoba, and Murmansk, on the Russian Arctic coast, are unlikely sister cities. 
 Churchill is not a city at all, but a barren outpost of 1,100 people on the western shore of Hudson Bay. It survives on the 15,000 tourists who visit each year for the chance to see and photograph migrating polar bears. 
 Murmansk, by contrast, has a population of 325,000, making it the biggest city inside the Arctic Circle. Founded in 1916 as Romanov-on-Murman, just before the revolution wiped out the Romanovs, it is a place of stolidly attractive old buildings, newer high-rises, wide boulevards and green parks. Though it lies north of Churchill, which is ice-bound up to eight months a year, Murmansk's harbor is kept free of ice by the Gulf Stream, the ideal base for the Russian Arctic fleet and commercial shipping. 
 One thing the communities have in common, however, is hard times. Churchill, never much to begin with, lost most of its population when Canada finished phasing out the Fort Churchill military base in the 1980's. Murmansk, like much of the rest of Russia, lost economic ground with the collapse of the Soviet Union. But the more relevant connection is an accident of geography and a shared dream: that the thawing of the Arctic Ocean would help create the so-called Arctic Bridge, a shipping route with their ports as the logical terminals.
 The advantage of maritime shortcuts across the top of the world can be startling. For example, shipments from Murmansk to midcontinental North America by the well-worn route through the St. Lawrence Seaway and Great Lakes to Thunder Bay, in western Ontario, typically take 17 days. The voyage from Murmansk to Churchill is only 8 days under good conditions, and from Churchill, rail links snake down through Manitoba, the American Midwest and points south all the way to Monterrey, Mexico. 
 For Murmansk, an extended shipping season in Arctic ports that are now frozen much of the year could mean a boon in traffic -- to the west and, perhaps once again, to the Far East. 
 The city was once the anchor of the Soviet Union's Northern Sea Route, which stretched to nearly 3,500 miles to the rich nickel mines at Norilsk and on to newly established Arctic colonies at Dikson, Khatanga, Tiksi and Pevek before reaching the Bering Sea. 
 At its height, in 1987, more than seven million tons of cargo traversed the icy route. But when the Soviet Union collapsed, so did the Northern Sea Route. Today it handles only 1.5 million tons. 
 The Murmansk Shipping Company, newly privatized, now uses its icebreakers for tourist cruises to the North Pole -- $15,000 to $20,000 a ticket, depending on the cabin. 
 The same way an Arctic Bridge could drastically cut the distance to Canada, a revived Northern Sea Route could shorten the journey for goods and raw materials from Northeast Asia to Europe by 40 percent.
 Vladimir M. Chlenov, the transportation minister from the Siberian republic of Sakha, a vast region that borders the Laptev Sea, envisions dozens of ships carrying gold, timber and other resources up the Lena River to the port of Tiksi, and from there through ice-free seas to Europe and Asia. 
 The waters near the Siberian shore -- when free of ice -- are too shallow for giant cargo ships, and the infrastructure needed for navigation has deteriorated. But a study conducted from 1993 to 1999 by researchers from Russia, Norway and Japan found that a route once sustained by Soviet diktat could also be viable for private enterprise.
 There is, of course, a third Arctic shipping route besides the Arctic Bridge and the Northern Sea Route: the Northwest Passage. It would be the last of the three main routes to succumb to the thaw. But some Canadian officials, eyeing what will happen in 20 years, say it is all the more justification for investing in the rebirth of Churchill. 
 ''We're gearing up for the future,'' said Mr. Lemieux, the Manitoba transportation minister. ''We look to be the gateway, the logistical hub of the world for circumpolar navigation.'' 
 A lucky winner would be Pat Broe, the American who bought the Port of Churchill in 1997 almost as an afterthought, for a token $10 Canadian. Looking to expand his railroad company, OmniTrax, he had already paid $11 million for 810 miles of denationalized tracks in Manitoba. He acquired the port at auction, figuring he would rather own it than have someone else use it as a ''toll booth'' for his railroad. 
 Mr. Broe, a private man, declined to be interviewed for this article.
 Since his acquisitions, OmniTrax estimates it has spent $50 million modernizing the port to accommodate big ships carrying exports like grain and farm machinery to Murmansk, and incoming Russian products, including fertilizer and steel. By some hopeful estimates, Churchill's shipping season could eventually grow to 8 or even 10 months a year, compared with the current 4. 
 Michael J. Ogborn, OmniTrax's managing director, said he could see a future for Churchill when ''the activity at the port will be as busy as an anthill, with machines, people, freight and ships at dock.'' 
 For now, though, there is a problem. While the port has continued to ship grain to Europe and North Africa, it is still waiting for its ship to come in -- any ship from Russia, to demonstrate the advantages of the Arctic Bridge. 
 ''There is still a huge marketing effort needed to educate shippers why they should ship through Churchill,'' Mr. Ogborn conceded. 
 And in an arena where sharp elbows are often the norm, there is great cooperation between Canada and Russia, not least through Russia's ambassador to Canada, Georgy E. Mamedov. A spreader of good will, the ambassador has even suggested using decommissioned nuclear submarines to transport cargo under the ice. On a visit to Churchill last year, he appointed his local driver honorary Russian consul, and stopped at the ''jail'' for polar bears that wander into town, laying his hand on the big black nose of one anesthetized inmate and addressing it fondly in Russian. 
 In the months since, Mr. Mamedov has talked ebulliently of the Arctic Bridge in meetings with Canadian officials, business groups and reporters. ''Go to Churchill,'' he said in one interview. ''Go there.''

The Big Melt''
 Articles in this series will describe the effects of warming on the environment and on the four million people within the Arctic Circle, and scientists' assessments of the inevitability of Arctic melting. A video presentation with Andrew C. Revkin and Simon Romero is online: nytimes.com/science

 on the Law of the Sea; U.S. Arctic Research Commission; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration)(pg. A11)

GRAPHIC: Photos: CONFLICTING CLAIMS -- Canada and Denmark both claim little Hans Island off Greenland. (Photo by Polfoto, via Associated Press)
(Photo by Canadian Dept. of National Defense)(pg. A1)
The Port of Churchill, in Manitoba, left, received its first cargo ship of the year in July. But the polar ice that keeps the port closed eight months a year is shrinking. The harbor in Murmansk, right, is open year-round, but the ice blocks shipping to Churchill. (Photo by Heidi Bradner for The New York Times)
(Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A10)Chart/Map: ''Unlocking an Ocean''The Arctic ice cap is shrinking in summers and thinning, opening shipping lanes and access to valuable natural resources.SHIPPINGMelting ice could soon open three polar passages historically clogged by ice, allowing shipping companies to greatly reduce the time it takes to cross the globe and deliver goods.Map of the world from an aerial view of the North Pole highlights the following:Northwest PassageNorthern Sea RouteArctic BridgeProjected extent of sea ice in September 2070-2090Northwest PassageThe Northwest Passage would be the last of the three main routes to thaw, partly because it passes through straits that get blocked more easily by ice. But some Canadian officials estimate it will open within 20 years.Northern Sea RouteDuring the Soviet era, millions of tons of cargo passed along this route with the help of nuclear-powered icebreakers. Transport plunged after the Soviet Union collapsed. If ice pulls back from the coast as many scientists project, ships moving between northern Europe and Asia could cut transit time by 10 to 15 days.Arctic BridgeThe route connecting Murmansk and Churchill is already open four months a year. But Hudson Bay is frozen over the remainder of the year, making it an impractical route. A warming climate would make it usable for longer periods.NATURAL RESOURCESPerhaps the biggest Arctic prize is oil and natural gas. The melting of the ice cap will allow energy companies to reach numerous petroleum deposits believed to exist under the Arctic seabed. (Areas of known and prospective oil and gas reserves are highlighted.)Map of the world highlights distances for shipping routes for the following:Panama Canal route: 15,000 milesNorthwest Passage (Tokyo to London): 8,500 milesNorthern Sea Route: 8,000 milesSuez Canal route: 13,000 miles(Sources by NOAA
U.S. Arctic Research Commission
Arctic Council
United Nations Environment Program
Arctic Climate Impact Assessment
International Atomic Energy Agency)(pg. A10)Chart/Map: ''Two Ways to Split Up the Arctic Ocean''In hopes of gaining access to shipping routes and valuable natural resources, five countries -- Russia, the United States, Canada, Norway and Denmark -- are strategizing on how to claim ownership of parts of the Arctic Ocean.What countries have now, and what they may claimCoastal countries control the sea 230 miles from their shores, like the U.S.-controlled area here.This area is not currently part of any country. Nations can make claims in the area, which must then be approved by the United Nations.For countries to make claims in this area, it must be proven that underwater ridges here are part of a continental shelf, rather than a separate feature of the sea floor.1. The median line methodProponents: Canada, Denmark, United NationsThe sea would be divided into areas proportional to the amount of coastline a country has.A treaty, the Law of the Sea, dictates that countries cannot claim the areas shaded in yellow because the areas lie too far from coasts or continental shelfs.2. The sector methodProponents: Russia, Norway 2The sea is divided along lines of longitude, with the North Pole as the center.(The North Pole would be split among countries.)(Map also shows what areas the United States would claim under both methods.)(Sources by David Monahan, Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping, University of New Hampshire
 United Nations Convention

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); OCEANS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (71%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (70%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); LAW OF THE SEA (70%); CRUISES (70%); FISHERIES (62%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (50%) Weather; Surveys and Series; Global Warming; Weather; Weather

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (59%); ARCTIC RESEARCH COMMISSION (59%); ARCTIC COUNCIL (59%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%)

PERSON: Clifford Krauss; Steven Lee Myers; Andrew C Revkin; Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: ARCTIC OCEAN (94%); MANITOBA, CANADA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) ARCTIC (99%); CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (93%); NORWAY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); EUROPE (79%); PANAMA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GREENLAND (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (59%) Arctic Regions; Russia; Arctic Ocean

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



204 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: For Chairwoman of Breakaway Labor Coalition, Deep Roots in the Movement

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
Anna Burger has come a long way since that rollicking 1995 victory party in which John J. Sweeney, just elected president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., presented her with a nine-tailed pink leather whip.
 Mr. Sweeney was thanking her for being his efficient campaign manager and whip, but now she has become his chief rival, having recently been elected chairwoman of a breakaway labor alliance, the Change to Win Federation. That has made Ms. Burger the highest-ranking woman in the history of the American labor movement. 
Ms. Burger, an energetic former social worker, said she used to be confident that Mr. Sweeney's victory would revive organized labor. 
 ''It gave us an opportunity to change the labor movement, but unfortunately the labor movement didn't take it,'' said Ms. Burger, who placed the whip on her office wall, alongside labor, feminist and civil rights posters.
 Ms. Burger said the four dissident unions needed to leave the A.F.L.-C.I.O. last summer because, in her view, the federation had done far too little to stop labor from sinking into oblivion. Unions now represent just 7.9 percent of private-sector workers, down from 35 percent 50 years ago. 
 ''I respect John Sweeney; he has spent his whole life working for working families,'' Ms. Burger said. ''But we are in a critical moment in our history for working families. Things are getting worse for them, and time is running out to turn things around. The urgency to rebirth the labor movement is much stronger than my loyalty to individual friendships.'' 
 Ms. Burger now has quite a platform from which to trumpet her message. The coalition she heads, a seven-union federation that represents 5.4 million workers, has become an instant challenger to the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which represents about 9 million. She says the guiding principle of the new group is to unionize hundreds of thousands of workers.
 Ms. Burger is also secretary-treasurer of one of the breakaway groups, the Service Employees International Union. It is the nation's fastest growing union and has 1.8 million members, including nursing-home aides, janitors, security guards and state employees. 
 The union's president, Andrew L. Stern, is viewed as the visionary, and Ms. Burger as the get-it-done administrator. ''I'm the chairman,'' Mr. Stern said, ''and she's the C.E.O.'' 
 The new federation also includes the Teamsters, laborers, carpenters, farm workers, food and commercial workers, and Unite Here, which represents hotel, restaurant and apparel workers. As chairwoman of the coalition, Ms. Burger will have to deal with the presidents of those unions.
 ''She's able to work with men who are accustomed to working with only men,'' said Eileen Kerlin, director of the service employees' division for public employees, which has 800,000 members. ''She's tough and strong, and she has an ability to lead in a way that's not threatening, but is inspiring. She also brings a side that's incredibly compassionate.''
 What Ms. Burger described as her greatest strength should help her in her new post. ''I'm good at bringing people together to really work together,'' she said. 
 As for what she calls her greatest weakness, ''I talk fast, I move fast,'' she said. ''Sometimes I'm impatient. Sometimes because I talk so fast and move so fast, people think I'm more impatient than I am.''
 At Change to Win's founding convention on Sept. 27 -- her 55th birthday -- Ms. Burger showed a rare personal side. She talked about growing up in Levittown, Pa., her mother a nurse, her father a Teamster who was maimed in a truck accident when she was 9.
 In 1972, shortly after graduating from Pennsylvania State University, Ms. Burger took a job as a social worker in Philadelphia. Her office was in an old Cadillac warehouse, and a month after starting, she led a wildcat strike when a huge rainstorm caused water to pour onto the workers from the ceiling. 
 Ms. Burger consulted her father, fearing that she might be fired. She recalled what her father told her: ''Anna, whatever you do, stick to the union. It's what makes a difference for working people like us.''
 She added, ''That was the one thing that my dad told me that I listened to.''
 During the walkout, Ms. Burger met Mr. Stern, who was also a Philadelphia social worker. They both ascended quickly in the union.
 Ms. Burger soon became a union steward, then a business agent, then secretary-treasurer and finally president of the Pennsylvania social services union. 
 In 1986, Ms. Burger showed her grit when Gov. Dick Thornburgh ordered the state police to arrest state employees who were registering lower-income Pennsylvanians to vote on state property, including areas outside unemployment and welfare offices. To defy the governor, Ms. Burger set up a registration table in the Capitol rotunda, taking her month-old daughter with her. She dared the police to arrest mother and baby, but they left her alone.
 Her daughter, Erin, now 19, said her mother never put work before raising her. Whenever Ms. Burger was on the road, they had lengthy phone conversations each morning. Whenever Ms. Burger gave a speech, she would give her cellphone to a colleague in case Erin had to reach her.
 One day the staff of Ms. Burger's Pennsylvania union local went on strike because she had rejected their demands about car allowances. After several weeks, they went back to work, accepting a contract largely on her terms.
 ''They sort of underestimated Anna as a woman,'' Mr. Stern said. ''They underestimated her resolve. She was known for being such a collaborative, cooperative person.'' 
 In 1990, Mr. Sweeney, then the service employees' president, brought her to Washington to direct the union's policy and field operations. Then she managed his successful A.F.L.-C.I.O. campaign. When Mr. Stern succeeded him as the union president, Ms. Burger became Mr. Stern's executive assistant. She then went on to serve as the union's executive vice president before becoming secretary-treasurer. 
 Ms. Burger told a story recently that brought tears to her eyes. After her mother and father died, she and her siblings discovered a box of their parents' most important papers, including their earliest love letters. At the bottom of the box was a little black book, her father's original Teamsters membership book.
 ''I worry about the labor movement and about the next generation,'' she said. ''Kids like my daughter deserve a better life, but I worry that they're inheriting a worse life because of the economic shambles for working families. It's our responsibility to do something about it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Anna Burger, chairwoman of the coalition, is also secretary-treasurer of the service employees union. (Photo by David Y. Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); FAMILY (70%); FARM LABOR (62%) Labor; Women

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (93%); CHANGE TO WIN (83%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; Change to Win Federation

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse; Anna Burger; John J Sweeney

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



205 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1920 words

HEADLINE: In a Still-Growing City, Some Neighborhoods Say Slow Down

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
A swelling population, an overheated real estate market and the biggest building boom in 30 years are fueling a counterrevolution in New York City: Dozens of neighborhoods have asked the Bloomberg administration to rewrite zoning rules to rein in what residents see as runaway development and growth.
 In what some housing experts are calling ''the downzoning uprising,'' communities throughout the city want to see an end to an influx of apartments, additional people, and what they consider McMansions -- and to preserve neighborhoods of limestone town houses, 1950's ranch houses, even humble wood-frame houses wrapped in aluminum siding.
The administration has agreed, with enthusiasm. Since 2002, 42 rezonings ''to preserve neighborhood character,'' as the administration puts it, have been approved or are under review. About 3,600 blocks have been rezoned, and more proposals are on the way. By contrast, officials say, the city approved only eight such rezonings in the three years before 2002. 
 The demand to control neighborhood density comes as the city's population is projected to reach 8.4 million by 2010, up from an estimated 8.1 million today. There is already a shortage of housing that moderate and middle-income people can afford. So the push for downzoning pits the rights of neighborhoods against the city's broader need to equitably accommodate its growth.
 The downzoning issue also underscores the ambivalence of many New Yorkers toward density. New Yorkers celebrate the city's vitality, changeability and allure, and many recognize density as somehow crucial to New York's energy and life. Yet they balk at the prospect of too much density and change close to home -- their homes.
 ''New York's greatness is based on a concentration of population,'' said Julia Vitullo-Martin, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute who specializes in housing, planning and development. ''And New York's great neighborhoods are the ones served by public transportation and built for density.'' 
 She said there had often been ''an odd antidensity zeitgeist in New York,'' then added, ''Density is good for New York.''
 Those in favor of the recent downzonings say they will protect neighborhoods against out-of-scale development, especially in places without the infrastructure needed to handle growth. When balanced by increases in density elsewhere, they say, the downzonings will also stop real estate speculation and keep communities stable.
 ''If you allow the character of a neighborhood to be eroded, the people who live in that neighborhood will leave the city,'' said Amanda M. Burden, chairwoman of the City Planning Commission. ''We can't allow that to happen. Protecting these different neighborhoods, we are providing New Yorkers with a diversity of housing choices.''
 But others worry that the downzonings are beginning to outweigh the effect of upzonings elsewhere in the city. It is easier, they say, to decrease density than to increase it, especially in an election year. They worry that rezoning the neighborhoods will make them more homogenous, and the home prices higher. 
 ''There are real reasons why people feel they'd rather not have new development, good and bad,'' said Brad Lander, executive director of the Pratt Institute Center for Community and Environmental Development. But, he added, ''It seems to me that if you refuse growth, you are either implicitly saying we should change our immigration policies and not let people in, or immigrants should live in basements and attics or in the Poconos.''
 The rush to rezone primarily to reduce density has been felt throughout the city. Much of Staten Island, the fastest-growing county in the state in the 1990's, was rezoned last year to reduce the density of new residential development. In Queens, the city has agreed to rezone Bayside, Cambria Heights and half a dozen other neighborhoods. Rezonings of Whitestone and College Point are also in the works.
 In the Bronx, proposals for Morris Park, Woodlawn, Olinville and Riverdale are under public review. Pelham Gardens, Throgs Neck and others have already been rezoned. So have Bensonhurst and Park Slope in Brooklyn. Even in Manhattan, where the city has recently rezoned former manufacturing areas to make high-rise residential development possible, it has at the same time downzoned parts of the West Village.
 ''Because of confidence in the city, investment in housing and growth in population, we are finding neighborhoods where there's a real mismatch between the ability to build and the character of the neighborhood,'' said Ms. Burden, who is also the director of the Department of City Planning. ''That's where communities have come to us, in every single borough, saying, 'Protect our neighborhood.'''
 The problem, as she and others see it, is that the city's zoning resolution had its last major revision in 1961 -- at a time when some imagined the city's population to be heading toward 16 million. Many areas ended up zoned for more development than actually occurred. As a result, much of Staten Island, Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx are less densely developed than zoning permits. Until recently, it did not really matter.
 But the record-breaking growth in the city's population in the 1990's and the real estate boom that followed made it lucrative for developers to begin taking advantage of the old rules. They started replacing moderate-size homes with big ones, doubling the number of houses on lots, building multifamily housing in single-family neighborhoods. Longtime residents balked.
 ''People generally plant themselves in neighborhoods for a reason,'' said Tony Avella, a city councilman from northeast Queens who made overdevelopment a campaign issue when he ran for office in 2001. ''It's usually the quality of life. If we allow the quality of life and the neighborhood character to disappear because of overdevelopment, then you lose something that the city will never get back.''
 Mr. Avella began making the rounds of civic associations in Queens and Brooklyn, spreading the downzoning gospel. In his own district, he hired a planning consultant, Paul Graziano, to do an independent zoning study and make recommendations. Then the Department of City Planning was asked to rewrite much of the district's zoning.
 ''We thought this would be a good way to jump-start this issue not only in my district but throughout the city,'' Mr. Avella said. ''It really started a groundswell. People started to realize: 'This is a problem in my neighborhood. You know what? This is leading to overcrowding in my school. This is why we have a traffic problem. We're getting sewer backups because the infrastructure can't handle these developments.' People started to realize, 'Wow, this really does affect our quality of life.'''
 Mr. Avella had his doubts about a balanced approach.
 ''There had always been a philosophy in previous administrations in City Planning: 'Well, if we're going to do a downzoning, we have to do an upzoning, too,''' he said. ''My argument is, if a neighborhood is improperly zoned and wants a downzoning, they shouldn't have to do an upzoning. They should have it regardless of what happens somewhere else.''
 One of the first communities in his district to be rezoned was Bayside. There, most of the housing consisted of one- and two-family detached and semidetached homes, but the old zoning allowed row houses and apartment houses as well. So Bayside was rezoned in April to permit for the most part only one- and two-family houses in the future, with new limits on floor area and height to stop out-of-scale development. Similar changes are in the works in other communities. Sean M. Walsh, president of the Queens Civic Congress, attributes the communities' success in part to timing. ''We seem to be more successful in the election cycle than in the nonelection cycle,'' he said. ''Because I think you need votes and you try to appease or please people in the neighborhoods.''
 The impact of downzonings on the city's property tax revenues is not clear, housing experts said. In theory, a downzoning could hurt tax revenues in the short run by limiting new construction; but in the longer run, it could help them if it enhanced the viability of a neighborhood and raised property values.
 Rachaele Raynoff, a spokeswoman for the Department of City Planning, said the city was doing nothing different this year than it had in the past. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's administration took office with an economic development plan for the five boroughs, she said, and when it encountered concerns about development pressures in the neighborhoods, the city incorporated those concerns. 
 Not everyone sees the rezonings as an unalloyed good. Mr. Lander said many of the recent downzonings have not been balanced with upzonings nearby, even in neighborhoods that he believes have the infrastructure to accommodate growth.
 For example, he said: ''They've effectively downzoned all of Staten Island. That's not smart and balanced rezoning.''
 He added: ''This is a real problem throughout the city, preserving what people love about their neighborhoods and equitably meeting the needs of a growing city. But a fair-share approach to that problem is to ask places to balance it within some reasonable geography, rather than saying: 'We'll preserve our neighborhood. Somebody else should deal with the growth.'''
 Vicki Been, director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University and an expert on land-use law, said there is usually a trade-off between low density and affordability. ''If people want low density, then there's a cost to affordability, and vice versa,'' she said. ''If you're limiting the building in one place and you've got a growing population and increased housing demand, you've got to provide for it someplace.''
 Ms. Burden pointed out that the administration has encouraged housing development. The recent rezonings of former manufacturing areas in Greenpoint and Williamsburg in Brooklyn and West Chelsea and the Hudson Yards in Manhattan are expected to produce 29,000 new units. Other possible areas of growth in the future, she said, include Long Island City in Queens and the area known as the Hub in the Bronx.
 On a recent afternoon, Mr. Graziano, the 34-year-old planning consultant hired by Councilman Avella, drove through the northeast Queens neighborhoods where he has spent his life, and that he is now intent on preserving. He admired the charm of north Flushing's tree-lined streets, fulminated against development excesses and pondered the struggle still to come.
 ''For better or worse, this has been kind of a revolution that's gone on here,'' Mr. Graziano had said earlier. ''A very quiet, nontraditional type of revolution. I think it has changed the way that City Planning operates. It has changed the discussion. Which is all that I wanted.''
 He added: ''These neighborhoods substantially have not changed in 40 years. What we're trying to do is make sure they are recognizable 40 years from now. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. In fact, in many other places in the country, that is celebrated. So why shouldn't we celebrate it as well?''


Map of New York City highlights the following areas:
Adopted
Under public review
Areas of higher density

(Note: Nearly all residential areas of Staten Island are covered by a zoning text amendment that limits the density of development.)

(Source by New York City Department of City Planning)(pg. B4)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Graziano, a planning consultant, in Flushing, Queens. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B4)Chart/Map: ''Putting Limits on Growth''Areas rezoned during the Bloomberg administration with the goal -- in whole or in part -- of preserving neighborhood character or lowering the density of development are shown. Some have included areas in which denser development is allowed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (77%); APPROVALS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



206 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; FASHION DIARY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Ruffles and Flourishes For a Girlie Girl

BYLINE: By Guy Trebay

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
The shows are over, and the consensus among those who concern themselves with these things is that Paris presented a fairly unified vision of fashion in the near term. The woman conjured by the majority of designers working in this city, which still has by far the strongest field of designers, is a person unafraid of the kind of frilly femininity that not so long ago was considered anathema. 
 The girlie girl, in short, is back. And from the look of things, she is ready to make her first communion. 
So many bows and ruffles and chiffons and voiles and embroideries were on display here over the last week that one dismayed buyer for a New York department store threw up her hands and said, ''What if you're not a virgin?''
 That this woman declined to give her name for publication (''I'll be fired,'' she explained) says something about how little room there is right now for deviation from retail lock step. 
 The dress is back, say the fashion seers, their voices like those of Circe's maidens. ''There's so much white and so much tan and soft fabrics and subtle details that you have to study, that you keep coming back to the same thing, the dress,'' Julie Gilhart, the fashion director of Barneys New York, said outside the Chloe show at the Jardin des Tuileries. ''It's kind of irresistible.''
 Why resist? The collections shown here and in New York (Milan was fundamentally a wash) have been a resounding affirmation of needlecraft, if nothing else. And they demonstrated a renewed corporate commitment to value for dollars. Despite the bulge at the upper end of the economic range, many middle-class consumers in the United States and Europe are struggling, and the people who run luxury multinationals know it. 
 Robert Polet, the chief executive of the Gucci Group, may say, as he did last week, that his aim is to create a stable corporate framework in which creative people can have their freedom. But the creative emphasis this season has been as far from the subversions of even the lucrative Tom Ford years at Gucci as could be imagined. It seems obvious that the stunts that made Mr. Ford a celebrity -- naked models; brazen crotch shots; fashion pictorials that read like slick, chic versions of the Kama Sutra -- would not work now. 
 ''People don't want dramatic changes at the moment,'' Ronald Frasch, the vice chairman of Saks Fifth Avenue, said yesterday. ''There's a lot out there to choose from, and they are taking their time to adjust before they choose.''
 Mr. Frasch was putting topspin on the challenge facing retailers. How do you stimulate need among consumers who fundamentally have everything? Traditionally the job falls to magazine editors, who reliably crank up the gloss machines with each season, taking their newfound faith to the newsstand with the fervor of Elmer Gantry. 
 They thump the tub for whatever is next, particularly when it comes attached to advertising dollars. If designers from the three or four companies dominating the luxury goods market dictate a ''new elegance'' or a ''sober refinement'' or nude mesh or dresses that make women look like bordello hostesses or else like slipcovers for the Liberty Bell, the spawn of Kay Thompson fall right into step.
 But the aesthetic problems that will face editors are not easily solved. ''How,'' Michael Roberts, the fashion editor of The New Yorker, asked at the Christian Lacroix show, ''do you build 12 pages around a ribbon?'' Add a pompon, and you'll see why Anna Wintour will have to roll up her sleeves.
 ''There is not one trend, not one kind of taste happening, and that's a good thing,'' said Robert Burke, the fashion director of Bergdorf Goodman. ''That is not to say there was a shortage of newness in colors, ornament, subtle details.'' 
 Strange to say, there was nothing wrong with the season that just ended, except that with rare exceptions it was too beautiful and perhaps too much in line with what one buyer called ''the feminine romanticism that we've been looking at for four seasons now.''
 A knack for getting hold of a hankering many women apparently nurture for the powder-puff prettiness that one could term ''feminine romanticism'' is probably what rescued Alber Elbaz of Lanvin from the scrapheap of also-rans. How Mr. Elbaz managed to liberate himself from the curse of journeyman status to become a star several seasons ago (following a familiar overnight-took-20-years formula) was by making clothes that achieved some very girlie effects but without any cost to the wearer in basic dignity. 
 Anyone paying attention understood that he achieved his success using tools he had employed all along. One of these was a respect for the reality that in order to pay the rent, never mind buy a $1,500 jacket from Lanvin, most women need jobs. 
 Designers get sick of hearing commentators carry on about the practical. And they are right to feel this way. Who wants to be burdened with practicality? Still, it struck this observer, as models minced up and down the catwalk at the Yves Saint Laurent show on Sunday, that although the clothes the designer Stefano Pilati presented were formally assured, showed clear affection for the traditions of the house and possessed an almost aching prettiness, they were deal-making clothes only for the kind of woman who conducts her important business horizontally.


GRAPHIC: Photos: WINGS OF AN ANGEL -- Powder-puff prettiness from Chloe. (Photo by Francois Guillot/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
DETAILS, DETAILS -- Frilly femininity from Valentino, left, and Yves Saint Laurent. (Photographs by Pierre Verdy/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 (Photo by Francois Guillot/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); RETAILERS (88%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); FABRICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (50%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



207 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Music Industry Wants Fee On Sales of Latest Digital Players 

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
In the United States, recording labels want a bigger slice of Apple's success in digital music by seeking higher prices on downloaded songs. Japan's music industry has a different idea: putting a fee on iPods.
 The industry has asked the Japanese government to charge a royalty, to be added to the retail price of portable digital music players like Apple's iPod, which has been explosively popular here. Money earned from the fee, which will be probably be 2 to 5 percent of the retail price, would go to recording companies, songwriters and artists as compensation for revenue lost from home copying. 
It is a familiar story of vested interests feeling threatened by new technologies. Like their counterparts in the United States, Japanese recording companies are struggling to catch up with the Internet and the advances in digital recording technology that are transforming their industry.
 But in Japan, the proposed fee has also touched off an unusual public battle over the influence that industry groups here still wield over the government and economy. 
 As a powerful political lobby, Japan's recording industry expected to get its way when it first asked for the fee last fall. Instead, its proposal remains stalled in one of Japan's government committees. The news media, meanwhile, mock the fee as the ''iPod tax.'' 
 ''This is typical of how industry groups try to manipulate government at the expense of consumers,'' said Hiroko Mizuhara, head of the Consumers Union of Japan. ''A lot of things in Japan have changed, but this hasn't.''
 The recording industry has already succeeded in slowing the arrival of Apple's iTunes music download service to Japan through its reluctance to negotiate licensing deals, people in the industry said. 
 Apple opened a Japanese version of iTunes in August, two years after its introduction in the United States, but without songs from the major Japanese labels like Sony Music Entertainment and Warner Music Japan, which still have not signed licensing agreements.
 ITunes received a warmer welcome from Japanese consumers, who bought one million songs in the first four days, according to Apple, which declined to comment for this article.
 The proposed fees in Japan come as the music industry in the United States appears to be jealously looking at Apple, whose iPod and iTunes dominate their respective global markets. Record executives in the United States have recently said that they wanted to renegotiate and raise prices of songs sold by iTunes when licensing agreements expire next spring. 
 ''Recording industries on both sides of the Pacific are trying to find all kinds of schemes to make more money,'' said Tim Bajarin, an analyst at the Creative Strategies consulting firm in Campbell, Calif. ''They have this alternative commercial channel, and they're just trying to block it or tax it.''
 The proposed fee would affect portable digital players that store data on internal hard-disk drives and flash memory computer chips -- which include not only iPods but rivals like the Sony Walkman and other portable devices.
 A fee of 2 percent is already imposed on devices using earlier digital recording technologies, like compact disc and minidisc recorders. Japanese manufacturers have been longtime opponents of such fees. The fees are similar to a 2 percent surcharge imposed by the United States government in 1992 on sales of digital tape recorders, the first generation of digital home recording equipment, also to compensate for copying. 
 The current fight in Japan has particular political significance because it is taking place in a government advisory committee, which helps the powerful bureaucracies set policy. These committees are usually tame panels that reflect vested interests because they are packed with insiders from the industries being regulated.
 The committee, under the Agency for Cultural Affairs, is split over the issue of whether royalties included in the price of music at online stores allow users to copy songs to portable players. The recording industry says the royalties only cover transmission to the listener's personal computer, not for copying from there to a player like an iPod. Opponents counter that consumers copying to a player for their personal use should not be forced to pay twice to get a song from iTunes to their iPod.
 ''It's like charging riders when they board the bus, and then again when they get off,'' said Naoki Koizumi, a law professor in Tokyo at Keio University who serves on the committee. 
 The Japanese recording industry complains that the sudden rise of the portable digital players is robbing it of the revenue that used to come from the fees on CD and MD recorders. Earnings from fees have fallen last year to 2.2 billion yen ($20 million) from 3.8 billion yen in 2000, according to the Japanese Society for Rights of Authors, Composers and Publishers. ''Now everyone who used to be using CD's and MD's are using iPods,'' said Koichi Numamura, head of the society's recording rights department. ''We can't just sit by silently while we lose money.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A billboard in Tokyo for the Apple iPod, which could cost 2 to 5 percent more if Japan's music industry gets its way. (Photo by Katsumi Kasahara/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (94%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (94%); MUSIC (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECORD REVENUES (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (89%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); SONG WRITING (73%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%) Music; Recording Equipment; Royalties; Copyrights; Recordings (Audio); Music

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (64%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Computer Inc

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (64%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (64%)

PERSON: Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



208 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; At Newspapers, Some Clipping; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1974 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Are Cut as Ads and Readers Move Online

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
When Amanda Bennett, editor of The Philadelphia Inquirer, heard last month that she had to cut 75 jobs in her newsroom -- 15 percent of her staff -- she was sick to her stomach. 
 But after some reflection, she said, she realized that the depth of the cuts would force the newspaper to reinvent itself, and this would be to its advantage.
''This is a chance to hold everything up to the light and say, 'What value does this give to the readers?''' she said, adding that she would rethink everything from the concept of local coverage to the formats for delivering the news. 
 ''If we miss this opportunity to change ourselves from a newspaper into a news organization,'' she said, ''shame on us.''
 Such rethinking is sweeping newsrooms across the country as the industry faces a wave of job cuts, among them 700 announced since May at The New York Times Company, including its business operations and the various media properties it owns, and 14 at The Hartford Courant. Most recently cuts have been announced at The Boston Globe (a division of the Times Company), The San Jose Mercury News, The Philadelphia Daily News, The Baltimore Sun and Newsday, and over the last few years The Los Angeles Times, The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post have also moved to eliminate jobs. 
 Industrywide, ad revenue is flat, costs are up and circulation is eroding. At The Inquirer, circulation has dropped 30 percent over the last two decades.
 Beyond the industry's economic woes, the future is clouded by the rapid expansion of the Internet, leaving newspapers in an identity crisis as they try to come to grips with fundamental changes in the industry and society that are significantly curbing their growth. 
 Pessimism about the industry's ability to overcome these obstacles continues to drive down the price of newspaper stocks. Wall Street has revised its third-quarter earnings estimates downward for most newspaper companies. The turmoil is largely confined to big metropolitan dailies, not small papers where the advertising base is more stable.
 At big papers, ad revenue has stalled for several reasons: a decline in local auto ads; the consolidation of department stores, especially the merger of Federated and May, and a march to the Internet by travel advertisers, hotels and car rental agencies. That exodus from print includes Hertz, which has not advertised in The New York Times for six months, a Times spokeswoman said. Movie ads are in a trough as box-office sales slump.
 Goldman Sachs predicted recently that ad revenue for the newspaper industry would grow a quite modest 1.7 percent in the third quarter this year over the period a year ago, the industry's weakest performance in two years.
 ''No one's crystal ball on this was good,'' said Lauren Rich Fine, a publishing industry analyst at Merrill Lynch. ''No one anticipated that Federated/May would take a stance this year and say, 'We're less dependent on newspapers.' That has caused some of the panic at newspapers, where they are saying, 'We better get in front of this.'''
 Several longer-term worries are also undermining growth. One is the migration to high-speed Internet connections, or broadband. Two-thirds of United States households are expected to have these connections by 2010, double the portion today, according to Forrester Research. 
 Advertisers like the Ford Motor Company are already seeing how this trend affects buying patterns. Ford says that 80 percent of its customers now shop online, doing everything from their initial research to setting up test drives and getting quotes from dealers. 
 So the company has decided to move 30 percent of its estimated ad budget of $1 billion a year to nontraditional media, with 15 percent going to online. ''With the explosion of broadband, it makes more sense for us to continue to increase our spend where we can find our customers,'' said Linda Perry-Lube, Ford car communications manager.
 These trends are likely to accelerate. Over the next three years, advertisers are expected to devote 15 to 20 percent of their budgets to the Internet, up from 5 to 8 percent, according to David Verklin, chief executive of Carat Americas, a major media services firm. At the same time, newspapers are losing classified ads to Craigslist and eBay. And they are losing information-seekers to Google and Yahoo, which recycle news from media outlets and increasingly offer content of their own. As readers turn to these cyberbehemoths, advertisers follow.
 While newspaper Web sites are attracting an increasing number of online ads, those ads are cheap and bring in only a fraction of the revenue that print ads do. And while some newspapers now have more readers on their Web sites than they have in print, most are reluctant to charge for their content online, depriving themselves of revenue from their most popular product. The New York Times recently started charging $50 a year for nonsubscribers to read its columnists online, but it has declined to discuss the early results.
 Those are just some of the factors crimping the outlook for newspapers even as their costs are climbing.
 ''The basic newspaper, when you take out the Internet and all the other targeted publications that people are starting, is just not growing,'' said P. Anthony Ridder, chairman and chief executive of Knight Ridder, which owns The Inquirer. ''Newsprint costs are up significantly. Wages and health benefits are up. So you have the cost pressure on the one hand and the lack of revenue growth on the other. That's really the problem, and everyone is having essentially the same problem.''
 Nonetheless, many top news executives say they are adapting to these new realities and positioning the industry for a promising future.
 Newspapers maintain some inherent advantages. Despite the drops in circulation, they still reach a wider audience than other traditional media. In the top 50 markets, according to the Newspaper Association of America, 52 percent of adults read a paper every day, while 39 percent watch prime-time television, 21 percent listen to morning drive-time radio and 15 percent watch cable TV. As the media landscape is increasingly fragmented, the most efficient way for advertisers to reach a mass audience, and a relatively affluent one, is the newspaper.
 And newspapers continue to be profitable, often more so than other industries. The 12 major public newspaper companies in the United States posted an average operating margin last year for their newspapers of almost 21 percent, according to Goldman Sachs, with Gannett and E.W. Scripps at the top with close to 30 percent each, and Dow Jones at the bottom with 9 percent. The New York Times Company's margin was 16 percent and that of the Tribune Company almost 18 percent.
 ''Don't cry for the newspaper industry,'' said Dean Singleton, chief executive of MediaNews Group, which publishes The Denver Post and The Salt Lake Tribune and who presided over the shutdown of The Houston Post. ''They're making a lot of money, and many are reinvesting it in a dynamic online future.''
 Papers are bolstering their Web sites, building Internet offerings, encouraging reporters to write blogs and produce audio feeds and creating ways for citizens to submit their own material. They are also creating niche publications, including ethnic papers and free metropolitan dailies aimed at readers aged 18 to 34.
 ''We will follow our readers where they take us,'' said Arthur Sulzberger Jr., publisher of The New York Times and chairman of the Times Company. ''If they want us in print, we will be there in print. If they want us on the Web, we will be there on the Web. If they want us on cellphones or downloaded so they can hear us in audio, we must be there.
 ''At the end of the day, it is the audience we collect and the quality of that audience that is the critical factor, not the means by which we collect it.'' 
 But delivering information in new ways requires additional investments, which can squeeze companies as costs rise faster than revenues. 
 ''Everyone in the industry has been forced to spend heavily on new products and services and at the same time, with the revenue growth as paltry as it is, it's forcing cuts elsewhere,'' said Ms. Fine of Merrill Lynch.
 Mr. Ridder, for one, said he had to ''divert more resources to the parts of the business that are growing,'' a choice that is bad news for print. ''We will not have the resources to put into the core business,'' he said.
 Mr. Singleton explained the calculation. ''By 2010, we could be generating half our operating profit from online,'' he said. ''That will cause us to add to our online resources and shift down on print. That's bad if you're in print and get laid off, but it's not necessarily a bad thing for the paper or the industry.'' 
 Analysts say this pinched state may become the norm as newspapers continue to struggle to draw in young readers. ''The problem for newspapers is a perception among lots of consumers, particularly those under 40, that the conventional products of the newspaper business don't fit their needs or lifestyles,'' said Merrill Brown, a media consultant and former editor in chief of MSNBC.com. In the quarter-century after 1972, he said, the percentage of people aged 30 to 39 who read a paper every day plunged to 30 from 73.
 The bromide that young people turn to newspapers when they have children and a mortgage is no longer true, Mr. Brown said. ''Today there are too many alternatives,'' he said. ''Yes, they will care about what the school board is doing, but the daily paper won't be their vehicle.''
 That is why many newspapers are broadening themselves into multimedia organizations.
 ''Newspaper companies may be going through difficult days but they are reinventing themselves,'' said Janet L. Robinson, chief executive of The New York Times Company. ''As the secular and cyclical changes level out, these companies are positioned for future growth. We're not just a newspaper.'' 
 She is helping to lead an industry effort to persuade advertisers to look at the reach of the entire brand, including a newspaper's Web site, rather than just the print paper.
 Peter R. Kann, chairman of Dow Jones, which owns The Wall Street Journal -- one of the few papers that have successfully charged readers for an online edition -- said he saw The Journal ''as a franchise that extends across media as well as geographic boundaries.''
 Still, he said, the news that the print paper gathers, and the print paper itself, remain central to the company's future. ''A daily print package of the most important news, insight and analysis continues to have high value,'' Mr. Kann said.
 So despite all the interest in new modes of communication, some companies by necessity are reinvesting in their print operations. The Journal has started a Saturday paper. Mr. Singleton has just ordered $150 million printing presses for The Denver Post. The Star Tribune in Minneapolis is undergoing a major redesign to make its pages, in the parlance of the Web, more navigable.
 But some detect a bit of whistling past the graveyard among those who predict a rosy future. John S. Carroll recently resigned as editor of The Los Angeles Times, saying the reason was largely the relentless cycle of cuts demanded by the Tribune Company, his paper's parent. He expressed sympathy in particular with Ms. Bennett at The Inquirer.
 ''Amanda is going through a cycle most of us have been through,'' he said of the stomach-churning directive to cut her staff. ''You first say, 'No way in hell am I going to do that,' then you talk yourself into it and persuade yourself that you can do something positive. It's about the only way to get through these things. You know it's not necessarily going to turn out to be a great thing, but you've got to motivate yourself.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Amanda Bennett, editor of The Philadelphia Inquirer, must cut 75 jobs. (Photo by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)(pg. C5)
(Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''The State of the Presses''With circulation relatively flat for decadesGraph tracks Daily newspaper circulation since 1954.newspaper penetration has steadily declined.Graph tracks Average newspapers per household since 1954.Ad expenditures have not kept pace with G.D.P.Graph tracks Newspaper advertising, as a percent of G.D.P. since 1954.but the industry continues to generate profits.Net profit margins in selected industriesSECOND QUARTER 2005Application software -- 20.4%Asset management -- 17.1Newspaper publishing -- 11.6Department stores -- 3.9Auto dealerships -- 1.9Some companies have fared better than others.Graph tracks Change in stock price since 2001.(Sources by Newspaper Association of America
Census Bureau
Bureau of Economic Analysis
Capital IQ
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (69%); MOVIE REVENUES (69%); MERGERS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); TICKET SALES (64%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); RETAILERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (85%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (67%); WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (85%); WPO (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



209 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: In Time of Studied Ambiguity, A Label for the Manly Man 

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
The trend-spotting authors who popularized the term ''metrosexual'' to categorize straight men who exfoliated, wore Diesel jeans and took longer to get ready than their girlfriends have decided that the two-year-old phenomenon is, well, so two years ago. 
 The new ideal, according to Marian Salzman, Ira Matathia and Ann O'Reilly in their new book, ''The Future of Men,'' is the ''ubersexual.'' In contrast to metrosexuals, who, they write, risk being ''sad sacks who seem incapable of retaining their sense of manhood in postfeminist times,'' ubersexuals ''mark a return to the positive characteristics of the Real Man of yesteryear (strong, resolute, fair).'' Yet they are poised to not only change a diaper but to discuss how they feel about it. 
And unlike metrosexuals, ''ubersexuals don't invite questions about their sexuality.'' The authors recently released a list of the ''top 10 ubersexuals,'' with Bono at the top, followed by George Clooney and Bill Clinton.
 Ms. Salzman, executive vice president of the advertising giant JWT, said that she was consulting last year for a men's skin-care line when she ''realized there had been a push-back against metrosexuality, against the softness of it,'' and it led her to recommend ''more clean-smelling than perfume-y'' items.
 ''Men in my view don't want products that are derivative of female products,'' she said. ''They want things that are male rather than female.'' 
 While identifying a tribe of metrosexuals ostensibly helped marketers reach that market, Ms. Salzman said her purpose was to sell her book. When the three authors' previous book, ''Buzz: Harness the Power of Influence and Create Demand,'' was published in spring 2003, ''we wanted to prove our own hypothesis, that you could buzz something around the world without paying for advertising.'' 
 The word metrosexual never appears in that book, but Ms. Salzman used it while saying that she was running focus groups with trendily shod straight men. (The term was not their own: it had been coined in 1994, derisively, by Mark Simpson, a culture critic who ridiculed ''commodity fetishists'' he encountered at a London men's fashion expo.) 
 A flurry of articles about metrosexuals appeared that spring and early summer in publications all over the world, including The New York Times, The Economist, The Financial Times of London and The Boston Herald. The start that summer of the television program ''Queer Eye for the Straight Guy'' also lent currency to the term. The word of the year for 2003 for both the American Dialect Society and Merriam-Webster: metrosexual. 
 Ms. Salzman said that ubersexuals would also stand out as a distinct group, distinguishing themselves by reading Esquire or Sports Illustrated, shopping less but more discriminatingly, and favoring men over women as their closest friends. 
 But Daniel Peres, editor of Details, a magazine often described as the ''metrosexual bible,'' said he grew to despise the word.
 ''It turned more into a marketing tool,'' he said, ''with businesses and publishers jumping on it, not a strong anthropologic look at the genders.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Former President Bill Clinton, a leading ubersexual, with Jon Stewart. (Photo by Peter Kramer/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); WRITERS (90%); MEN (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (71%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (70%); FOCUS GROUPS (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) Advertising and Marketing; Books and Literature; Men

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (60%); JWT (55%); BOSTON HERALD (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (70%); GEORGE CLOONEY (51%); JON STEWART (50%) Marian Salzman; Ira Matathia; Ann O'Reilly; Andrew Adam Newman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



210 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Will Bush Deliver?

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman

 BODY:
Ever since President Bush promised to rebuild the Gulf Coast in ''one of the largest reconstruction efforts the world has ever seen,'' many people have asked how he plans to pay for that effort. But looking at what has (and hasn't) happened since he gave that speech, I'm starting to wonder whether they're asking the right question. How sure are we that large-scale federal aid for post-Katrina reconstruction will really materialize?
 Bear with me while I make the case for doubting whether Mr. Bush will make good on his promise. 
First, Mr. Bush already has a record of trying to renege on pledges to a stricken city. After 9/11 he made big promises to New York. But as soon as his bullhorn moment was past, officials began trying to wriggle out of his pledge. By early 2002 his budget director was accusing New York's elected representatives, who wanted to know what had happened to the promised aid, of engaging in a ''money-grubbing game.'' It's not clear how much federal help the city has actually received.
 With that precedent in mind, consider this: Congress has just gone on recess. By the time it returns, seven weeks will have passed since the levees broke. And the administration has spent much of that time blocking efforts to aid Katrina's victims. 
 I'm not sure why the news media haven't made more of the White House role in stalling a bipartisan bill that would have extended Medicaid coverage to all low-income hurricane victims -- some of whom, according to surveys, can't afford needed medicine. The White House has also insisted that disaster loans to local governments, many of which no longer have a tax base, be made with the cruel and unusual provision that these loans cannot be forgiven. 
 Since the administration is already nickel-and-diming Katrina's victims, it's a good bet that it will do the same with reconstruction -- that is, if reconstruction ever gets started.
 Nobody thinks that reconstruction should already be under way. But what's striking to me is that there are no visible signs that the administration has even begun developing a plan. No reconstruction czar has been appointed; no commission has been named. There have been no public hearings. And as far as we can tell, nobody is in charge.
 Last month The New York Times reported that Karl Rove had been placed in charge of post-Katrina reconstruction. But last week Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, denied that Mr. Rove -- who has become a lot less visible lately, as speculation swirls about possible indictments in the Plame case -- was ever running reconstruction. So who is in charge? ''The president,'' said Mr. McClellan. 
 Finally, if we assume that Mr. Bush remains hostile to domestic spending that might threaten his tax cuts -- and there's no reason to assume otherwise -- foot-dragging on post-Katrina reconstruction is a natural political strategy.
 I've been reading ''Off Center,'' an important new book by Jacob Hacker and Paul Pierson, political scientists at Yale and Berkeley respectively. Their goal is to explain how Republicans, who face a generally moderate electorate and have won recent national elections by ''the slimmest of margins,'' have nonetheless been able to advance a radical rightist agenda. 
 One of their ''new rules for radicals'' is ''Don't just do something, stand there.'' Frontal assaults on popular government programs tend to fail, as Mr. Bush learned in his hapless attempt to sell Social Security privatization. But as Mr. Hacker and Mr. Pierson point out, ''sometimes decisions not to act can be a powerful means of reshaping the role of government.'' For example, the public strongly supports a higher minimum wage, but conservatives have nonetheless managed to cut that wage in real terms by not raising it in the face of inflation.
 Right now, the public strongly supports a major reconstruction effort, so that's what Mr. Bush had to promise. But as the TV cameras focus on other places and other issues, will the administration pay a heavy political price for a reconstruction that starts slowly and gradually peters out? The New York experience suggests that it won't.
 Of course, I may be overanalyzing. Maybe the administration isn't deliberately dragging its feet on reconstruction. Maybe its lack of movement, like its immobility in the days after Katrina struck, reflects nothing more than out-of-touch leadership and a lack of competent people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HIJACKING (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); MEDICAID (72%); TERRORISM (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); INDICTMENTS (63%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; World Trade Center (NYC)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); KARL ROVE (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



211 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: For Liberians, an Election Is Also a Vote of Confidence 

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: MONROVIA, Liberia, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
Not so long ago, this boulevard belonged to little boys with big guns. But on Saturday, it belonged to men and women with big signs and loud voices, chanting for the man they hope to elect to the presidency this coming week. 
 ''Did he kill your ma? No!
''Did he kill your pa? No!
 ''Vote for George Weah!'' 
 After 14 years of living by the bullet, caught in a seemingly endless cycle of civil war that killed 200,000 people and spawned brutal conflicts across the region, Liberians are more than ready to give the ballot a try.
 ''This country has to finish with war,'' said Alfred Akins, a 46-year-old shopkeeper on Tubman Boulevard, one of this battered city's main thoroughfares. He fled Liberia for the United States five years ago but returned home in May because the peace had finally arrived. 
 ''This is our last chance,'' he said. ''We must make peace for ourselves and our children.''
 Two years after Charles Taylor, the warlord-turned-president who helped create this chaos in his own nation and beyond, was pushed from power, Liberia is preparing to elect a new president and legislature on Tuesday. It may be the first truly free election in the nation's history. 
 Nearly two dozen people are running for president. The leading candidates include the international soccer star George Weah (pronounced WAY-ah) and Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, an economist who has worked for the World Bank and the United Nations. If elected, Ms. Johnson-Sirleaf would be the first woman to become a head of state in modern Africa. 
 The candidates also include former warlords and allies of Mr. Taylor. He has been indicted by a United Nations war crimes tribunal in Sierra Leone but remains in Nigeria, which took him in as a condition of his departure from power. 
 Before he left, drug-addled child soldiers toting AK-47's, young conscripts into Mr. Taylor's army, patrolled Tubman Boulevard, the thoroughfare that leads from the airport to the heart of the city. 
 Now it is given over entirely to electioneering, with supporters of the 22 presidential hopefuls and dozens of legislative candidates waving signs, chanting and holding rallies in the last, frantic days of a jubilant and largely peaceful campaign. Election posters have papered over the bullet holes; hope and optimism have replaced the grim fatalism of war and death. 
 ''We Liberians are determined to reshape our destiny,'' said Samuel Kofi Woods, a prominent human rights advocate. ''We have set ourselves on an irreversible path.'' 
 The stakes for Liberia, indeed for all of West Africa, could not be higher. Devastated by a decade and half of war, Liberia does not even have running water or electricity. Its school system has collapsed, along with much of the government. 
 Deals cut by decades of corrupt rulers have robbed the Liberian people of the profits from the nation's rich endowment of resources -- timber, rubber and gems. Its justice system, police force, army and civil service are in tatters. More than 30,000 former soldiers from all sides of the fighting have been disarmed, but they live in squalor as they await jobs and schooling. 
 The corruption did not end with Mr. Taylor's departure in August 2003. A transitional government formed by the warring parties has been running the country, but little rebuilding has been accomplished. Investigations by Ecowas, a regional trade group, and the European Commission concluded that theft and fraud were so rampant that the interim government was incapable of rebuilding. 
 The implosion of Liberia has had serious consequences for its troubled neighbors -- Sierra Leone, Guinea and Ivory Coast -- supporting rebel movements and other destabilizing developments that set off insurrections and civil wars in a cycle that has killed hundreds of thousands of people. Whether Liberia becomes an anchor of stability or slips back into chaos has profound implications for the region.
 ''Liberia is an important piece of the regional puzzle,'' said David Carroll, director of the democracy program at the Carter Center and an observer for the election. ''This election comes at a critical moment.'' 
 Secured by a United Nations force of 15,000 troops, the campaign has been almost entirely without violence, a significant victory in a nation with a blood-soaked legacy. In this environment, debate has blossomed into a robust exchange of ideas, hopes and fears. Mr. Weah and Ms. Johnson-Sirleaf, both seen as leading candidates, offer a stark choice between a vibrant youth-driven populism and a technocratic approach focused on good governance and competence. 
 Mr. Weah is perhaps the most famous African soccer player and a hugely popular figure here. He grew up in a Monrovia slum and has little formal education, two facts that make him a hero to many of the poor, uneducated young adults who make up a broad swath of the electorate here. His lack of political experience and education have been criticized, but he is also much admired for his role in helping to disarm combatants. Because he did not take sides in the nation's civil war, he is seen as untainted by its past. 
 ''As a son of this country I believe in the people,'' Mr. Weah, 39, said in a round-table interview with reporters after a huge but chaotic rally on Saturday for his Congress for Democratic Change party. ''Credibility and dignity is what I bring to the table.'' 
 The rally drew hundreds of thousands of people to march in the streets but ended on a tragic note, with a young boy in the crowd being killed in circumstances that remain unclear. The organizers did not have water for the thousands who waited for hours in the blazing sun for Mr. Weah to take the stage, and dozens of people were carried out limp and unconscious from heat exhaustion. 
 Mr. Weah's main rival, Ms. Johnson-Sirleaf, is a Harvard-educated former official of the World Bank and United Nations and a longtime member of the country's political elite. She once supported Mr. Taylor but broke with him and eventually ran against him in the election in 1997. Ms. Johnson-Sirleaf, 66, said her long experience and credibility with international donors and institutions make her best choice to rebuild the country. 
 ''We need competent, transparent leadership,'' Ms. Johnson-Sirleaf said. ''I see myself as a Mandela figure. Six years to get it done, then turn it over to the younger generation.'' 
 Liberia's civil war began in 1989, when Mr. Taylor rose up against Samuel Doe, who had himself taken power in a bloody coup in 1980 against the Liberians who were the heirs of the freed slaves who founded this country 158 years ago and who had dominated its politics ever since. Mr. Taylor eventually took power, and was elected president in 1997 in an election marked by intimidation and threats of violence. Rebel groups forced him from power in 2003 and into exile in Nigeria. 
 While he is forbidden from traveling outside Nigeria, human rights groups accuse Mr. Taylor of continuing to meddle in Liberia's affairs, using the more than $100 million he is accused of stealing from the Liberian government to back favored candidates and finance would-be insurrections. 
 But on the streets of Monrovia last week, Mr. Taylor's name evoked not fear but adamant dismissal.
 ''He will never come back here to trouble us again,'' said Jacob H. Logan, 26, a supporter of Charles Walker Brumskine, a corporate lawyer and longtime fixture on Liberia's political scene who is among the presidential candidates. ''We are finished with him and his wars. The future belongs to us now. We will never go back.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, who is also seen as a leading candidate, could be the first woman to become a head of state in modern Africa.
 Supporters of George Weah ran through the streets of the Liberian capital, Monrovia, during a campaign rally on Saturday. Mr. Weah is considered to be a leading candidate for president in an election set for Tuesday. (Photographs by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CHILD SOLDIERS (78%); WOMEN (78%); ARMIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); HISTORY (75%); CIVIL WAR (75%); WAR CRIMES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); INDICTMENTS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); ARMED FORCES (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SOCCER (50%) Elections

PERSON: ELLEN JOHNSON-SIRLEAF (88%) Lydia Polgreen; George Weah; Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBERIA (95%); AFRICA (93%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); NIGERIA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Liberia

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



212 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Steps Up Effort to Persuade China to Shift on Trade 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
With lawmakers in Congress threatening a major confrontation with China over trade, the Bush administration will begin an intense campaign this week to persuade Chinese leaders that change is in their interest.
 On Tuesday, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow will lead a weeklong trip to China alongside Alan R. Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, and other top American officials.
The trip comes at a decisive political moment, just a few weeks before the Bush administration is to decide whether to accuse China formally of manipulating its currency to increase its exports.
 Lawmakers in both parties are vowing to punish China with steep new import tariffs if it does not move more quickly toward a market-based exchange rate. They contend that the Chinese currency, the yuan, is badly undervalued against the dollar, making Chinese exports cheaper than they otherwise would be. 
 But even as Mr. Snow prods Chinese leaders about their currency, administration officials are at least equally preoccupied with gaining more access to China for American financial institutions.
 Mr. Snow's trip coincides with a huge conference in Beijing staged by the biggest investment banks on Wall Street, where top officials for the People's Bank of China will mingle with bankers promoting credit-derivative swaps and offering tutorials on mergers and acquisitions.
 The result is what one Senate lawmaker called a ''complex minuet'' between American and Chinese officials. Under heavy pressure from the United States, China took a first step in July toward flexible exchange rates by letting the yuan rise 2 percent against the dollar.
 The Bush administration welcomed the move as a breakthrough, the beginning of the end to China's fixed exchange rate between the yuan and the dollar. Critics complained for years that the yuan was badly undervalued, making Chinese exports artificially cheap while widening a huge trade surplus with the United States.
 That surplus is approaching $200 billion this year. The Chinese government has amassed $740 billion of dollar-denominated reserves, most of that in the last three years, to keep the yuan from rising in value.
 But since its first tentative move, which was too small to have any significance, China has not allowed any additional adjustments to the yuan. Now, lawmakers in both political parties are pressuring Mr. Snow to produce more results.
 ''If you see the Chinese again, tell them I don't think they are acting in the spirit of their move,'' Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, told Mr. Snow at a hearing last Thursday.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, warned on Friday that he would reintroduce legislation as early as Thanksgiving that would threaten China with tariffs of 27.5 percent on all its exports to the United States.
 ''Secretary Snow and Chairman Greenspan both know that if there is no further movement by Thanksgiving, our legislation will pass,'' Mr. Schumer said in an interview.
 Mr. Snow is in a tight spot. In April, he came close to formally accusing China of manipulating its currency, a move that would require direct consultations with China and could lead to new trade restrictions. The Treasury Department will issue a follow-up report in early November, and Mr. Snow warned in April that he would accuse China of currency manipulation if it failed to make substantial changes.
 Administration officials are loath to threaten China, convinced that such tactics will simply stiffen the spines of Chinese hard-liners. ''It's our job here at Treasury to be a sober voice of reason,'' said Timothy D. Adams, under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs. ''Our job here is to promote free trade and capital flows and open markets.''
 Mr. Snow is going out of his way to make a big impression. He will arrive on Tuesday in Shanghai, where he will see China's new foreign-exchange trading system and the Shanghai stock exchange. Then he will travel to Chengdu, a hub for China's farm trade as well as a business center. 
 On Friday, Mr. Snow will join up with Mr. Greenspan and Christopher Cox, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and Reuben Jeffery, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
 Mr. Snow and Mr. Greenspan will attend meetings of finance officials from the Group of 20 large developing nations. They have also scheduled a long list of meetings with Chinese leaders, including Prime Minister Wen Jiabao and Zhou Xiaochuan, head of the Chinese central bank.
 Mr. Zhou, who speaks fluent English and has close ties with American officials, told a Chinese financial magazine last week that China needed to re-examine its currency and look for ways to reduce its trade surplus.
 Mr. Zhou's comments were clearly intended as a signal by Chinese leaders, but many top officials are determined to maintain China's export boom in order to create jobs for the millions of rural workers migrating every year to urban areas.
 Some American officials view the currency battle with China as a sideshow, arguing that even a major upward revaluation of the yuan would provide little relief for manufacturers in the United States. China's cost advantages over the United States would remain even if the yuan climbed 20 percent against the dollar. And to the extent China lost some of its competitive edge, other low-cost countries in Asia and Latin America would pick up most of the business.
 Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who has teamed up with Mr. Schumer on legislation to threaten China with tariffs, acknowledged on Friday that ''the currency issue is a symptom of the larger problem.'' Mr. Graham cited other long-running battles over intellectual property rights and legal obstacles to foreign companies in China.
 For Wall Street, China remains the land of opportunity. ''Think about the future growth there and think about the competitive advantages and then think about their capital needs,'' said Mark Lackritz, president of the Securities Industry Association, which is the host of a major conference in Beijing that will feature all the big Wall Street investment banks and law firms. 
 A senior economic official from Hong Kong summed up the attitude of American finance executives on a visit to Washington this month: ''China has become very sexy.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, left, met late last month in Washington with Zhou Xiaochuan, governor of the People's Bank of China. (Photo by J. Scott Applewhite/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); BANKING IN CHINA (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (51%) International Trade and World Market; Currency; Customs (Tariff); Banks and Banking; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (91%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush; John W (Sec) Snow

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) China

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



213 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: Van Gogh: Expressive With a Brush, or a Pen

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Vincent van Gogh considered drawing to be ''the root of everything.'' He once confided to his brother, Theo, that he could not stop drawing because ''I really have a draftsman's fist, and I ask you, have I ever doubted or hesitated or wavered since the day I began to draw? I think you know quite well that I pushed on, and of course I gradually grew stronger in the battle.'' 
 Although his career lasted only a decade, van Gogh created about 1,100 known drawings, capturing everything around him, from peasants and postmen to landscapes and interiors. Drawing was as important a way to record his thoughts as the letters he wrote to his family and friends.
Yet the public is far more familiar with his 800 paintings. Images like ''A Corridor in the Asylum'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, ''The Starry Night'' at the Museum of Modern Art and ''Irises'' at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles are among the most famous images in the history of art. 
 That situation may change next week, when the Met unveils ''Vincent van Gogh: The Drawings,'' the first major exhibition of the artist's drawings ever held in the United States. (A version of the show was on view at the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam this summer.) The exhibition, which opens next Tuesday, includes 113 works from public and private collections around the world, 20 of which were not shown in Amsterdam.
 ''Drawings have always been the P.S. part of van Gogh's work,'' said Colta Ives, a curator of drawings and prints at the Met. ''Yet he was a letter writer, a guy with a pen in his hand.'' 
 Ms. Ives and Susan Alyson Stein, a curator of 19th-century, modern and contemporary art at the Met, teamed up with two of their colleagues from the Van Gogh Museum -- Sjraar van Heugten, head of collections there, and Marije Vellekoop, curator of drawings -- to put the show together. Their mission was to tell the story of van Gogh's work through his drawings and watercolors.
 Sitting in the Met's galleries, surrounded by packing crates and work tables, as the exhibition was being installed, Ms. Stein said she had been thinking about a show like this for 20 years. As coordinator first of the Met's blockbuster 1984 show ''Van Gogh in Arles'' and ''Van Gogh in Saint-Remy and Auvers'' two years later, she was introduced to the artist's drawings. ''As exciting as the paintings are,'' she said, ''the drawings were a revelation.'' 
 For three years she and Ms. Ives have immersed themselves in van Gogh's world, traveling extensively throughout the United States and Europe. ''People opened their collections to us,'' Ms. Stein said. So did the Van Gogh Museum, which has the largest number of the artist's works on paper in the world. 
 ''We borrowed judiciously,'' Ms. Stein said. Deciding what not to show was as difficult as what the curators chose. For every drawing on view, at least 20 were reluctantly rejected. 
 The exhibition also includes eight paintings: three from the Met's own collection, two from the Van Gogh Museum, and three loans, from the Rodin Museum in Paris, the Pushkin State Museum of Fine Arts in Moscow and a private collection. Each was chosen for its relationship to his drawings. 
 Rather than tackle the subject strictly chronologically, as most curators have done, Ms. Stein and Ms. Ives decided to underscore relationship between drawing and painting in van Gogh's work and how he reinvented certain recurring themes in different ways. 
 When they began conceiving the show, Ms. Stein said, one of the first things she did was to put together 86 pages of excerpts about drawing from all three volumes of van Gogh's letters. ''We wanted to hear his discussion,'' she said, ''to know what mattered to him as an artist.'' 
 Throughout his life van Gogh embraced drawing for many different reasons. At first he felt it necessary to master black-and-white before tackling color. Sometimes it was a question of economics: paper and ink was far cheaper than canvas and paint. He also used drawing as a way of working on subjects that interested him, like wintry trees or tree-lined roads or expansive views of wheat fields. 
 Drawing didn't always come easy. ''He struggled with black and white,'' Ms. Ives said. ''But when he got to Arles in 1888, he discovered the reed pen, and it was then he developed a more comfortable relationship with his tool. As reed wears down, it becomes softer, more flexible and responsive to his gestures on paper.'' 
 It is generally assumed that most artists make drawings as studies for larger, more complete paintings. But sometimes van Gogh did just the opposite. He would reproduce some of his paintings in pen and ink; he would then send them to his artist friends Emile Bernard and John Russell, and to his brother, Theo, as a way of letting them know what he was up to. None of these drawings were exact copies; each contained spontaneous details. 
 Often even scholars haven't been sure which came first, a painting or a drawing. Three images of a Zouave solider -- a watercolor from the Met's collection, a painting from the Van Gogh Museum and a pen-and-ink drawing that belongs to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum -- have been the subject of scholarly debate. ''It's been long accepted that the watercolor came after the painting,'' Ms. Stein said. ''But when we looked at it, it seemed there were hesitant passages. The background, for example, is unresolved.'' 
 First the curators looked at the Met's watercolor next to the Guggenheim's pen-and-ink drawing, which they knew came after the painting. 
 ''It's harvest time; it's raining,'' Ms. Stein said. ''He has a model, he spends five days and writes his brother and his friends that he's finally painting portraits. He doesn't mention the watercolor. Six weeks later he sends the pen-and-ink rendition of the portrait to John Russell. But because the watercolor isn't mentioned in the letters, it's one of the many riddles we addressed.'' 
 Marjorie Shelley, a Met paper conservator, subjected the works to technical analysis, including infrared reflectography that revealed the artist's graphite sketch underneath the finished work, showing how he was struggling with his subject, something he did not do with either the painting or the later pen-and-ink drawing. 
 Ms. Ives was curious about ''Street in Saintes-Maries-de-la-Mer,'' an 1888 series of drawings and one painting of a dirt path with a row of thatched cottages on one side and tangled vegetation. From his letters it is known that a pen-and-ink drawing was made before a painting of the same subject. He did the drawing in Saintes-Maries, in the Camargue region of Provence, then returned to nearby Arles and made the painting. 
 ''Noticing the similarity in size between the drawing and the painting, I wondered if there might be a still closer link between them,'' Ms. Ives said. ''Perhaps it wasn't a free-handed interpretation in oil.'' Or, she said, he may have been so happy with his drawing that he traced it onto the canvas, which is unusual, because he generally painted freehand.
 So Ms. Ives made copies of both the painting and the drawing to scale, then superimposed the drawing on the painting. She deduced that van Gogh had indeed traced the drawing's outline onto the canvas as the structure of the composition, then added more sky at the top and more pathway at the bottom to fill the squarer canvas. But drawings and paintings were never exactly the same. In a drawing he made for Bernard, he added a tiny boat in the horizon. ''There is no boat in the painting,'' Ms. Ives said. 
 The way van Gogh grabbed onto a theme, composed it in his mind and then tried it out in different variations fascinated the curators. ''Very few artists do that,'' Ms. Ives said. ''Often we tried to get into van Gogh's shoes and walk with him to see what was catching his eye.'' A series of watercolors van Gogh created of the plains of La Crau, three miles northwest of Arles, is one example. The curators persuaded the Van Gogh museum to lend them ''Harvest in Provence'' (1888), a rarely lent painting, because they were able to borrow a watercolor that preceded it and a pen-and-ink drawing from the National Gallery of Art in Washington that the artist did after it. 
 ''Each has a distinctive character,'' Ms. Ives said. ''During the harvest he was out there every day, tromping through the fields, and certain motifs like fences, haystacks, clumps of reeds and rushes he keeps repeating in all different media and scales.''
 As an art form, however, works on paper are extremely delicate and cannot be subject to light or to changes in temperature. As a result, many of the drawings and watercolors in the show have rarely been exhibited, and it may be some time before the public will see them again. 
 ''The problem with drawings is they have to have a rest,'' Ms. Ives said. ''The next generation won't be able to play in this garden for quite a long while.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, van Gogh's pen-and-ink drawing of a Saintes-Maries street
a painting he made from the drawing
and a pen-and-ink copy of the painting. (Photo by Metropolitan Museum of Art)(pg. E1)
 Colta Ives, left, and Susan Alyson Stein, Met curators who have teamed up with the Van Gogh Museum for a new show on the artist's drawings. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); ART HISTORY (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



214 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Breaking the Mold, a Lender Buys a Bank

BYLINE: By Jennifer A. Kingson

 BODY:
CAPITAL One, the credit card giant, has always been something of a laboratory experiment.
 The company was founded by a Stanford-educated management consultant with no background in lending who wanted to test the ideas he formed advising clients. Now, Capital One is about to test another contrarian thesis: at a time when most stand-alone credit card businesses have sold themselves to big banks, Capital One is doing the opposite and buying a midsize commercial bank.
The company is in the process of acquiring the Hibernia Corporation, generally considered a workmanlike regional bank, with operations in Louisiana and Texas. 
 There are several rationales for the deal. Although Capital One thrives on credit cards and auto loans, its ability to accept deposits is constrained by its being less than a full-service bank. Hibernia's commercial banking charter will give the company the ability to offer more products, using its well-honed strategy of blanketing the United States with mail offers. 
 By diversifying into home-equity loans, mortgages and other loans with lower interest rates than cards, Capital One can expand its empire and shield its balance sheet from consumer credit cycles. 
 Some analysts, though, maintain that the Capital One profit engine has no need for a sleepy regional bank. They contend, among other things, that the company has already figured out how to finance its lending business in the absence of a large deposit base.
 ''The chestnut that's out there in the industry that they did this to finance their lending business -- that doesn't wash,'' said Theodore Iacobuzio, vice president for research at TowerGroup, a banking and payments consulting firm. ''For me, there are more unanswered questions than there are answered questions.''
 Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's founder and chief executive, says he has an answer: people like to keep their checking and savings accounts at a local bank with lots of convenient branches, but when they are taking out a loan, they care less about geography than about the best deal. In other words, financial services companies should take deposits locally and lend nationally.
 Although its credit card business has been doing very well -- the company expects its loan portfolio to grow at a rate of 12 percent to 15 percent this year -- ''we came to the conclusion that the right model was to be a diversified lender with a deposit business,'' Mr. Fairbank said in a recent interview.
 After shopping a bit for the right bank, Capital One selected Hibernia, which is based in New Orleans. The deal, announced in March, has been delayed and renegotiated because of Hurricane Katrina; Capital One now plans to pay about $5 billion, 9 percent less than the original price, and to close by the end of the year.
 ''We still believe that Hibernia can do for us what we're buying it for,'' Mr. Fairbank said. He would like Capital One to rely less on the capital markets; bank regulators, which forced the company to increase its loan-loss reserves in 2002, may feel the same way.
 Wall Street has tended to smile on Capital One because of the consistency of its profits, but its shares have fallen 12.5 percent since their high in August. The stock closed yesterday at $74.79.
 In a way, the purchase of Hibernia will bring Capital One full circle. The venture was born in 1988 when Mr. Fairbank persuaded Signet Bank of Richmond, Va., to buy his concept of selling consumer products through a strategy that combined technology and direct marketing. 
 Signet, now part of Wachovia, adopted the idea in 1988, hiring Mr. Fairbank and a partner to run its credit card business. But the card operation outgrew the bank and was spun off in 1994. 
 Today, Capital One, with its headquarters in McLean, Va., is credited with pioneering innovations like the teaser rate, dangling once-unthinkable offers like zero percent interest on credit card balances for the first six months of an account, and balance transfers.
 More recently, a foray into auto lending has gone very well. Capital One bought Summit Acceptance in 1998 for about $60 million, Mr. Fairbank said. Today, Capital One Auto Finance is the third-largest auto lender in the country.
 At the time, said Michael T. Vinciquerra, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates, he questioned the move into auto lending. Now, Mr. Vinciquerra, who has a strong buy rating on Capital One, says that the premise of marrying the national lending business to a local deposit base seems logical.
 Mr. Fairbank and his team, he added, ''always seem to be thinking a couple of years down the road.''
 Its unorthodox aspects notwithstanding, Capital One's deal for Hibernia does fit with a shift that has been taking place in financial services, away from the single-product model. With a few big exceptions, most specialized lenders have joined forces with more diverse companies. In credit cards, American Express stands largely on its own as the last pure card company, having emphatically pared back its other operations (including, last week, its financial advisory business, which started trading as Ameriprise Financial). The Discover card continues to live on as part of Morgan Stanley.
 But Capital One considers Hibernia just a start, and plans to bulk up in both deposits and consumer lending. ''We positioned ourselves to be one of the consolidators rather than on the receiving end of the consolidation, as most banks are,'' Mr. Fairbank said.
 Indeed, Mr. Fairbank is of the view that banks that do not already have a national lending business like his credit card franchise may find themselves at a disadvantage. Take Wachovia, for instance, which considered buying MBNA before Bank of America snapped it up. There are not many such companies left to buy, he said, but there are certainly a lot of banks left to add to Capital One's portfolio. 
 ''Would I like to be in 50 states with deposits? I might like that,'' Mr. Fairbank said. ''I'd be shocked if five years from now, we were not already thought of as a bank.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HURRICANE KATRINA (70%) Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Capital One Financial Corp; Hibernia Corp

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%)

PERSON: RICHARD D FAIRBANK (59%) Jennifer A Kingson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



215 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: On American Side of Falls, Scrutiny of Mayor Curbs Niagara's Growth and Planning

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Nearly two years ago, the people here chose a new mayor, a man who worked as an electrician and was on the City Council, hoping that he could polish the image of a place known for being the less attractive, economically diminished sister city of the Canadian version across the border.
 Today, Niagara Falls in New York still faces all of its longstanding problems, along with a new one. For the past few months, its mayor, Vince V. Anello, has been under the scrutiny of federal investigators who are trying to determine if he illegally took money from a prominent developer and gave the developer favorable treatment. The mayor has denied wrongdoing and has said he expects to be cleared. 
But he is under such scrutiny that city leadership is largely ineffectual, some local officials say. ''If I were a millionaire or entrepreneur I would not come to the city,'' Councilman Robert Anderson Jr. said. 
 In May, a free weekly tabloid, The Niagara Falls Reporter, published an article about Mr. Anello's electrical company's accepting $40,000 in three installments from July to November 2003 -- shortly before and after Mr. Anello was elected -- from a city developer, Joseph Anderson.
 On one of the financial forms obtained by the newspaper from a business associate of Mr. Anderson, the word ''contribution'' is crossed out in a scribble. ''Loan/promissory note'' is written next to it. State election law limits contributions to $1,400, and investigators are trying to determine if laws were broken.
 In March 2004, three months after Mayor Anello took office, he proposed that a company owned by Mr. Anderson, who is not related to Robert Anderson, the councilman, be awarded a no-bid contract that gave it a 30-year lease agreement to manage vendors on a prominent pedestrian walkway. The City Council approved. In October 2004, the city's economic development office also granted the businessman a $70,350 low-interest loan.
 Mayor Anello declined to speak to The New York Times, but faxed a statement recently that said the $40,000 was a loan by a friend that he duly reported in election financial disclosure statements. ''Any inference of impropriety has been brought about by malicious speculation,'' he wrote.
 After the article in The Reporter, a Niagara County Board of Elections commissioner was subpoenaed to testify before a federal grand jury and turn over Mayor Anello's campaign finance records.
 After that, City Councilman Lewis Rotella, known as Babe, suggested that the mayor resign until the investigation concluded. ''If the tables were turned,'' Mr. Rotella said, ''I would step down until whatever way it goes. And if I was cleared, I would think about coming back.'' 
 The mayor declined to resign, Mr. Rotella said. Federal investigators have spent several months questioning at least two council members, Mr. Rotella and Candra Thomason, and several department leaders. More recently, the city's Law Department clerk, Donna Winstanley, said she had been called to testify before a federal grand jury and ordered to bring Mayor Anello's financial disclosure statements for 2002, 2003 and 2004. 
 The city's Economic Development director, Ralph Aversa, was questioned by investigators about the city's $70,350 loan to Joseph Anderson. When asked by a television reporter from WGRZ in Buffalo if the mayor had influenced the loan, Mr. Aversa replied, ''Absolutely not.'' 
 Meanwhile, The Niagara Falls Reporter -- which initially endorsed Mayor Anello, then apologized to readers when the scrutiny began -- has been hammering away at the topic with articles and opinion columns like the one that appeared recently under this headline: ''His Lips Are Moving? Then Anello's Lying.''
 The investigation has slowed government operations at a time when the city is facing financial problems. Money from the Seneca Niagara Casino, which agreed to share a part of its slot-machine revenue in exchange for permission to operate in downtown Niagara Falls, has been held up because city, county and state officials cannot agree on how the funds should be spent, and the county has sued. Also, the city's attempt to slash library financing by $1 million, nearly half its budget, was thwarted recently when the Niagara Falls Library board filed a lawsuit and a state judge ordered the city to make up the difference.
 Amid these problems, the mayor needs City Council support in budget negotiations to help find a solution for a potential $1.5 million deficit. But the Council and the mayor have been at odds about much more routine business, including which consultant to use for a municipal construction project, whether or not to enact a hiring freeze and even over appointees to the library board. 
 Often these measures are tabled or the Council votes down the mayor overwhelmingly, lawmakers said.
 ''Everything's on hold,'' Mr. Rotella said. ''It's truly, truly harming us.''
 Developers, whose projects are desperately needed to help the city's growth, are afraid to do business in town, Councilwoman Thomason said. ''Everybody's sitting on edge waiting to see if he's going to be indicted,'' she added. 
 Even tourism, desperately encouraged in Niagara Falls, is affected. ''Developers who have expressed an interest in the tourism marketplace don't want to get mired down at this time,'' said David Rosenwasser, president of Niagara Tourism and Convention Corporation.
 But the tourism market is so competitive, developers might move to another place rather than wait out the results of the investigation in Niagara Falls, he said, adding, ''It's disappointing for sure.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Vince V. Anello of Niagara Falls, N.Y., denies wrongdoing. (Photo by Dan Cappellazzo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); SUBPOENAS (84%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROVALS (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ELECTION LAW (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); DEBT NOTES (64%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (64%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (62%); TESTIMONY (60%); GRAND JURY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



216 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: A Psychologist, 92, Is at Odds With the Institute He Founded 

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY and DAN HURLEY

 BODY:
In a drama worthy of a field that thrives on conflict, a bitter feud has erupted between Albert Ellis, one of the most provocative and influential figures in modern psychology, and the Upper East Side psychotherapy institute he founded almost a half-century ago. 
 Dr. Ellis, 92, has filed a lawsuit against the Albert Ellis Institute, after the institute kicked him off its board of directors and canceled his popular Friday evening seminars.
Dr. Ellis and his defenders claim that the nonprofit institute has fallen into the hands of psychologists who are moving it away from the revolutionary therapy techniques pioneered by Dr. Ellis in the 1960's and 1970's. 
 The lawsuit, reported on Sunday by The New York Post, charges that the board acted improperly in removing Dr. Ellis and seeks his reinstatement, as well as unspecified damages. But Daniel Kurtz, a lawyer for the institute, said that the board acted out of economic necessity: payouts to Dr. Ellis for medical and other expenses were jeopardizing the institute's tax-exempt status and its viability, he said. 
 Dr. Ellis, who lives above the institute on East 65th Street, has been in declining health since an infection that nearly killed him several years ago and has daily nursing care.
 In the last year, the dispute has turned personal. Some board members have said they were uncomfortable with Dr. Ellis's confrontational style and eccentricities, and saw him as a liability, said Andy Hopson, a volunteer consultant hired by the institute at Dr. Ellis's urging. 
 And some of Dr. Ellis's supporters have hinted that the institute's current managers are little more than overpaid self-promoters, intent on turning the institute into an outlet for pop psychology in the style of Dr. Phil, according to Mike Abrams, a psychologist in private practice in New Jersey who has worked with Dr. Ellis.
 The board also fired Dr. Ellis's assistant, whom he has now married, a fact that he has interpreted as additional evidence of personal animosity on the part of board members.
 In an interview from his bedside yesterday, Dr. Ellis said that neither money nor his health was the most important issue in the dispute. 
 It is natural for any psychological institute to change and adapt with the times, he said, ''but it's unusual for them to change and go completely against the main principles'' of its founder ''and still call it the Albert Ellis Institute, and say they're doing the therapy, which they are not.'' 
 The history of psychology is replete with personality clashes between charismatic gurus and their students, perhaps the most famous being the break between Sigmund Freud and his disciples Carl Jung and Alfred Adler in the early 1900's.
 But historians say that the current quarrel is unusual, given the relationship between Dr. Ellis and the institute.
 ''I can't think of anything else where somebody had a theory and a practice and an institute in their name and that there was a coup going on internally over it,'' said David Baker, a professor of psychology at the University of Akron and director of the Archives of the History of American Psychology there. ''This sounds nasty.''
 Dr. Baker said of Dr. Ellis: ''He's always been provocative. He may not be willing to change with the times, and the times change -- that's something we know from the lessons of history.''
 In a typical Friday evening session, Dr. Ellis -- stooped in recent years, with a wisp of white hair and large black glasses -- would advise, cajole and entertain groups of 100 or more students, psychologists and others looking for answers, often lacing his comments with obscenities for effect. 
 ''Do you know why your family is trying to control you?'' he barked at one attendee at a seminar last year. ''Because they're out of their minds!'' 
 Most therapists thought Dr. Ellis was off-track when he founded the institute in 1959 and used it as a platform to promote a revolution in psychotherapy. 
 At the time, psychotherapy drew its methods and inspiration from Freudian theory, which held that mental distress could be traced to unconscious conflicts rooted in early childhood. In a radical departure, Dr. Ellis insisted that therapists spend less time probing distant childhood experiences and concentrate instead on what was happening in people's lives at the moment. 
 In his own practice, he had observed that people's conscious personal philosophies and beliefs -- the need to be appreciated, the fear of never finding anyone to love -- often drove them to despair and distraction. 
 Dr. Ellis devised a method for exposing and defusing these habits, called rational emotive behavior therapy. Around the same time, a psychiatrist, Dr. Aaron Beck, now at the University of Pennsylvania, developed similar techniques, and the two men are considered the fathers of cognitive behavior therapy. Subsequent research has shown that the therapy is as effective as medication -- and sometimes more so -- in treating depression, relieving anxiety and ameliorating other types of distress. 
 Dr. Ellis was a board member at the institute for 46 years and hired most of its employees. But his personal style began to wear on some in management years ago, according to psychologists who have worked at the clinic. ''I have worked with Dr. Ellis for years, and truly he is a first-class genius,'' Dr. Abrams said, ''but that genius does not cross into every domain, and management is not his strength. I've told him that to his face.'' 
 By early 2004, with Dr. Ellis in declining health, the board began to negotiate with him about his future role at the institute, Mr. Kurtz said. The two sides could not come to agreement about Dr. Ellis's payment or title, Mr. Kurtz said, and in July, institute officials canceled the Friday evening sessions that had been a staple there for 30 years. 
 Dr. Ellis's lawyer, Michael de Leeuw, said: ''Either these people really believe he is losing it, which he is not -- in which case their lack of sympathy and fairness is appalling -- or it's a palace coup. 
 ''They have created a lot of animus. It's not what anyone would want to do to a guy who's 92 and the founder of a major school of psychology, especially one from whom they have all been directly enriched.'' 
 Mr. Kurtz said that the board's action in no way challenged the importance of Dr. Ellis's contributions but that those contributions were ultimately irrelevant to the ouster. 
 ''We had someone who was working part time by any standard and who received financial benefits in the range of $500,000 to $600,000; it was just an outrageous situation,'' he said, referring mostly to medical benefits. 
 Mr. Kurtz, an expert in the laws governing nonprofits, said that in the nonprofit world, ''there's something called founder's syndrome, and this is an extreme case of that: he sees this as something he can use as he wishes, and he can't.''
 Michael Broder, the director of the Institute, said yesterday that the action by the board was not personal and was within the law. Dr. Ellis's lawyers responded that Dr. Broder himself earned more than $200,000 last year and that Dr. Ellis's expenses were legitimate, especially given his modest salary -- less than $50,000 a year -- and his years of devotion to the institute.
 Mr. Hopson said that the personal friction between Dr. Ellis and top managers was evident. 
 ''It became apparent to me very quickly in my interviewing process that the relationship between Dr. Broder and Dr. Ellis was tenuous at best,'' he said. ''Dr. Ellis didn't trust Dr. Broder and was frustrated that even though he was president of the board, Dr. Broder often ignored his directives.''
 Mr. Hopson said that Dr. Ellis also believed that Dr. Broder was manipulating the board. 
 ''He frequently lamented to me that he didn't trust Dr. Broder,'' Mr. Hopson said.
 In his new identity as a therapist unaffiliated with the Albert Ellis Institute, Dr. Ellis said he has been seeing a few clients. He said he does not hate those who removed him from the institute, nor is he angry about it. 
 ''I think it's unfair, but they have the right as fallible, screwed-up humans to be unfair, that's the human condition,'' he said. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Albert Ellis, 92, working yesterday from his bed in Manhattan, is considered a provocative and influential figure in modern psychology. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); HISTORY (77%); DAMAGES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); NURSES & NURSING (67%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (62%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



217 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE DISPLACED; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: Cast From Their Ancestral Home, Creoles Worry About Culture's Future

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: NATCHITOCHES PARISH, La., Oct. 9 

 BODY:
It is peaceful here on the Cane River, beyond the fluffy tops of high cotton and towering magnolia trees, but it is not home. For the New Orleans Creoles living in exodus here and elsewhere around Louisiana, their city was far more than home -- it was homeland, the capital of an ethnic nation unique in this country.
 ''New Orleans was our womb and for most of us, it was going to be our grave,'' said Timothy Bordenave, who is living in a cottage here, a five-hour drive away from the city, describing the deep sense of lifelong connection felt to New Orleans by many of the city's Creoles, the population of mixed-race families who trace their roots to the city's French and Spanish colonial era.
The Creoles have been more distinctly connected to a place -- New Orleans -- than perhaps any other American ethnic group but their rural Louisiana neighbors, the Cajuns. But unlike the Cajuns, who settled in Louisiana after being expelled from Canada by the British, the Creoles lived in the birthplace of their culture. 
 And now, after the recent storms and the blows they dealt to Creole communities around New Orleans, scattering them to states from coast to coast, many Creoles fear that without a geographical base, their already fragile culture and their very identity could be lost.
 ''The Creole culture was already dying, and now I think it's gone,'' said Julie Sardie, a marketing executive from New Orleans who is living in a transplanted Creole community in Houston. Ms. Sardie's mother, Jackie, added, ''We're just sick, suffering so bad over, not the loss of our houses, but the loss of our home, our culture, the things we did.''
 Many Creoles trace their roots to immigrants and slaves from the former French and Spanish colonies in the Caribbean, particularly Cuba and what is now Haiti. Historians say it was New Orleans's position as a crossroads and port town that allowed for the easy mingling of races and nationalities that in turn gave birth, in the 18th century, to a part-European, part-Afro-Caribbean society that grew to an estimated 20,000 people in Louisiana by the mid-1800's. 
 The Creole culture that developed over generations -- known for a distinctive cuisine, language and music -- contributed to New Orleans's singular identity and helped define Louisiana to the world. Before Hurricane Katrina, experts estimated that 10 to 20 percent of black people in New Orleans -- 30,000 to 60,000 people -- considered themselves Creole by way of ancestry, but even more lived lives influenced by the culture because of their proximity to it. 
 And now most are gone.
 With their geographic underpinnings swept away, many New Orleanians of Creole descent are trying to figure out how best to preserve a community separated from both its birthplace and home base. 
 ''Everywhere you go they're trying to exist, but it's like the life's been drained out of them,'' said Ms. Sardie, who is in touch with the large group of displaced New Orleans Creoles in Houston. ''I just want to cry.''
 Mr. Bordenave, who manages a restaurant, said: ''We can exist outside New Orleans, but it's easier and more natural to live in an atmosphere that reflects our history, love of music and architecture, eating and celebrating.''
 As for going back home, the Bordenave family are taking a wait-and-see approach, as are many. They wonder whether the so-called new New Orleans will be anything more than a hollow imitation of the old city. 
 ''We'll give it a year, then consider other options if New Orleans doesn't work out,'' said Curtis Bordenave, Timothy's brother, an electrical contractor whose family name appears in stone at one of the city's oldest cemeteries. Leaving the city would not be easy, he said, not ''when you loved a place and it was good to you.''
 Back when they were in New Orleans, the Sardies -- Roman Catholics all, as are most Creoles -- could tell what holiday they were celebrating by what dish was on the table, they said. Gumbo des herbes meant Holy Thursday, crayfish bisque was saved for Good Friday and a cowan (turtle) feast signaled the arrival of Easter Sunday. Christmas celebrations began on the night of the 24th and usually included midnight mass and a revillion dinner featuring file gumbo.
 And while most of the country associates Carnival with a single day -- Fat Tuesday -- in New Orleans the Mardi Gras season opens on Jan. 6, the 12th night after Christmas. For people like the Sardies and the Bordenaves, Carnival time was not so much about catching beads in the French Quarter as going to black-tie or masquerade parties and debutante balls in quieter parts of the city.
 ''Oh God, I'm going to miss that so much,'' Jackie Sardie said. ''During Mardi Gras, we might go to 15 or 20 dances. We really believed in clubs, parties and dances. It's something I fear we will never have again.''
 For many, these things were the only good reasons to be in New Orleans.
 ''We didn't stay there for the city administration or the great benefits -- the crime and the schools were horrible,'' Ms. Sardie continued. ''We put up with all of that because our culture was there. That's the only reason we were there.''
 Many, though, had already left, some to live as whites in other parts of the country. Large numbers of Creoles also departed Louisiana after World War II, frustrated with the slow pace of racial progress in the South.
 An even older diaspora existed before the Civil War, and it grew in the 1890's after Homer Plessy, a Creole New Orleanian, lost his Supreme Court case against John Howard Ferguson. (Plessy had been jailed for sitting in a car reserved for whites on the East Louisiana Railroad. He challenged the restriction as unconstitutional. The decision in Plessy v. Ferguson ushered in the ''separate but equal'' standard for the races.)
 The Creoles who left New Orleans in the past, however, generally planned their moves as families. Last month, the evacuation scattered people haphazardly, not even giving them a chance to say goodbye or tell one another where they were going. Families that had lived within blocks of each other for generations ended up in different states. 
 ''The people I saw in church every Sunday -- where are they?'' asked Jacques Detiege, a businessman from New Orleans now living in Houston. ''People I've known since I was a kid, I have no idea what happened to them.''
 The Creoles in New Orleans were an economically diverse group. Some lived in simple but historic houses in the Treme area near the French Quarter, while others were concentrated in Gentilly and in more modern, upscale neighborhoods in New Orleans East. Large swaths of the last two areas were damaged beyond repair in the flood and are likely to be condemned.
 This enormous displacement is not without precedent, said James Wilson, the assistant director of the Center for Louisiana Studies at the University of Louisiana, Lafayette. The Cajuns, who were expelled from Canada in the late 1700's, managed to carry on against the odds, Mr. Wilson noted.
 ''They were able to preserve and maintain their way of life even though only a small fraction resettled in south Louisiana,'' he said. ''They were forced to adapt and learn English, and this produced a backlash, a strong connection to their identity. The Creoles have gone through the same thing, as an outside group. They've learned to survive and maintain their distinctiveness.''
 In fact, many Creoles think their recent trials will make them only stronger.
 ''Katrina was not a death knell for Creole culture, quite the opposite,'' Janet Ravare Colson, the assistant director of the Creole Heritage Center at Northwestern State University in Natchitoches, said. ''I think it was an awakening. People want to know about their heritage now more than ever.''
 Ms. Colson said that the number of people contacting the seven-year-old center for information had spiked greatly since Hurricane Katrina, and that she could hardly handle the demand on the center's limited budget. 
 Some Creoles predict that the area around Natchitoches (pronounced NACK-ih-tish), which already had a sizable, generations-old Creole community, will become the new center of the culture.
 Mary Bordenave, Curtis's wife, is among those who wonder whether the Creoles will emerge better off because of the adversity. ''Maybe this was a great thing for the Creoles,'' Ms. Bordenave said.
 Sybil Kein, a retired English professor and New Orleans native whose Gentilly home was destroyed in the flood, said: ''We'll meet on the Cane River. We're going to have a whole lot of Creoles there, because for many of us, we can't think of any other place outside of New Orleans we'd want to be.''
 It is not clear, however, what will happen to New Orleans without its Creoles.
 ''Much of what made New Orleans unique was the Creole influence,'' said Mary Gehman, an assistant professor of English at Delgado Community College in New Orleans and the author of several works on Creole history. ''With the razing of large areas of condemned buildings and replacing them with modern housing with faux touches, the displacement of neighborhoods, the emphasis on a Las Vegas-style entertainment destination in the new New Orleans, I fear little will survive of the original spirit of the place.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Curtis Bordenave, top, with his sister Gwendolyn outside the trailer she has rented near the Cane River in Louisiana, said he was not sure he would be able to return to New Orleans. His wife, Mary, left, said she wondered if Creoles might end up being stronger because of the storm. (Photographs by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNICITY (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); FAMILY (74%); HISTORY (73%); HURRICANES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (99%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



218 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: The Mortgage Gap

 BODY:
We have come a long way since the days when banks wrote off entire minority communities, denying loans and mortgages to creditworthy people because of their race or where they lived. But perhaps not far enough. A recent Federal Reserve study shows that black Americans are three times as likely as whites to be signed up for high-cost ''subprime'' mortgages that often force borrowers into default. 
 Lenders typically argue that critics are confusing risk with race and point out that the scores on which they base mortgage rates are computed automatically, based on standardized consumer credit information. It is hard to judge these arguments because so much credit information is kept private. Lenders typically refuse to release data on individual credit scores or disclose their own risk analysis.
But it seems likely at this point that uninformed borrowers are being herded into higher-cost mortgages more frequently than necessary. That is probably due at least in part to the complexity of the current lending system. Mortgages are now sold mainly through mortgage brokers, who are virtually unregulated. This system has spread access to mortgages to communities that were once shut out. But brokers themselves have no legal responsibility to give borrowers the best rate -- or even a fair rate, for that matter.
 Sellers of mortgages often earn their money by marking up mortgage rates and adding fees and penalties, some of which can be onerous. That poses a particular danger for unsophisticated borrowers. Even well-educated consumers have difficulty finding out how their individual mortgage rates are calculated and what the various fees are.
 The disparity between lending costs for black and white homeowners is a serious matter, given the unhappy history of redlining. The federal government should find out once and for all where the racial disparities come from, even if it means forcing the lending lobby to release more kinds of data. Banks and other lenders should voluntarily rein in brokers who direct clients to unjustly expensive loans. Financial institutions should also make the mortgage process more transparent. That would be a bonus not just for minorities, but for everyone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (65%) Housing; Editorials; Blacks; Mortgages; Defaulting

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



219 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: Has It Come to This? Spacious, Arctic Vu 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The same trends that underlie the new politics of the Arctic are also reshaping the region's ecological future and the future of the human communities that subsist on its plentiful living resources.
 Will the hunting opportunities that sustain Inuit and other coastal communities survive as the sea ice becomes less stable? Will new fisheries benefit these same communities or be exploited commercially by distant water fleets?
Will new shipping lanes respect the foraging zones and migratory routes of humpback whales? 
 Will extensive new oil and gas development, particularly on the Russian Continental Shelf, be achieved at the expense of polluting the near coastal environment? 
 There is a place such discussions can take place: the Arctic Council, created at the initiative of Canada as a forum for a more coordinated approach to Arctic development. The United States joined the council at its inception during the Clinton administration. 
 We should use the council to raise and resolve the issues that will determine the human future of this region.

Brooks B. Yeager
Washington, Oct. 10, 2005

The writer, a visiting fellow at the H. John Heinz III Center for Science, Economics and the Environment, was deputy assistant secretary of state for the environment, 1998-2000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ARCTIC COUNCIL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARCTIC (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



220 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
ROGERS, JOHN STRATFORD

 BODY:
 ROGERS -- John Stratford. Chairman and CEO of World City America Inc., and World City Foundation, died on Friday, October 7, at New York Presbyterian Hospital, of complications related to multiple myeloma. Mr. Rogers attended Trinity School in New York (class of '52), and received his Bachelor of Arts from Yale University ('55) and his LLB from New York University Law School ('59). He was a Reporter for the N.Y. Journal of Commerce while attending law school. He joined the firm of Burlingham Underwood and Lord in 1959 where he became a senior partner, practicing admiralty and international law. Mr. Rogers opened branch offices (the first Western law firm) in Saudi Arabia; also in Kuwait and Egypt. He formed the American-Saudi Business Roundtable in the 70's to promote U.S.-Saudi business partnerships. In 1990, Mr. Rogers launched the Build America initiative to seize for the American economy a share of the booming foreign-flag cruise ship industry. The prototype ship, America World City, will be the world's largest passenger ship, accommodating 6,200 guests. Mr. Rogers is survived by three sons, John S. Rogers, Jr., Roland K. Rogers, and Andrew Lewis Rogers; a brother, Dr. Hartley Rogers; a sister, Joanna Macy; and three grandchildren. A Memorial Service will be held on Thursday, October 13, 2005, in the Chapel of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church at 1:00 P.M. In lieu of flowers, contributions in John Rogers' memory may be made to: the International Myeloma Foundation, 12650 Riverside Drive, Suite 206, North Hollywood, CA. 91607-3421; www.myeloma.org. 
$(6$)ROGERS--John Stratford. World City America Inc. celebrates the life and work of its Chairman and Chief Executive, John S. Rogers. A visionary, an optimist, a highly intelligent and methodical man, he undertook, starting in 1989, to develop an American-flag cruise ship industry. His vision was an American-built and U.S-flag operated fleet of next - generation cruise ships -- city - ships -- which would seize for the American economy a share of the booming foreign-dominated cruise ship industry. The prototype city-ship, to be named America World City--The Westin Flagship, will accommodate 6,200 guests and will be the world's largest passenger ship by a significant margin. The construction of the city-ship will be a major stimulus for the rebuilding of the hurricane - devastated southern tier of the country, creating thousands of jobs and benefiting local economies through community participation programs. For over sixteen years, and with an investment of over $50million, World City America Inc., under Mr. Rogers' leadership, and with the support of hundreds of American corporations who stand to benefit from an American-flag presence in this $16-billion-ayear, foreign-dominated industry, has positioned the United States to enter the market with a superior product, capable of being built in the U.S. at an internationally competitive price, creating thousands of long-term selfsupporting jobs on the ship and ashore, and promising renewed economic prosperity for the coastal communities across the southern tier. For those of us who have worked side-by-side with this wonderful man for so many years, our loss is indescribable; but our purpose is noble and it will be all the more rewarding to accomplish it in his honor. $(6$)ROGERS -- John Stratford. World City Foundation mourns the loss of its beloved Chairman and Chief Executive. Mr. Rogers' concept, to harness a major capital asset (world's largest passenger ship) as a source of perpetual funding for the attainment of the Foundation's goals, reflects a growing trend among world business organizations toward assuming a more active role in creating a healthier society and a more habitable planet. World City Foundation will carry out its educational, cultural, recreational and public policy programs and activities on board the 255,000-ton vessel, America World City-The Westin Flagship, and the profits of the ship's operations will be channeled into worthwhile programs and activities throughout the country and the world, including education, environmental protection, sustainable development, corporate responsibility, international understanding, and medical research. We have had the privilege and honor to work with a man whose vision inspired us, encouraged us, taught us, and enabled us to carry on, even without him. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); CRUISES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (61%); JOB CREATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (58%); BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (91%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



221 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: Read the Tea Leaves: China Will Be Top Exporter

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: JINHUA, China 

 BODY:
All the tea in China is proving to be a lot of tea these days, as hillsides across central and southern China are bulldozed to make way for tea farms even as many young Chinese are losing interest in the beverage.
 China still has millions of tea lovers who lavish the same attention on their beverage that oenophiles devote to wine. The finest grades of green tea, made from the most delicate baby leaves and roasted in a pan by hand, sell for hundreds of dollars a pound in Shanghai and Beijing.
But Coca-Cola, Pepsi, McDonald's, KFC and other Western businesses have come up with many other ways to slake thirsts in China, especially that of young Chinese. Shifting tides in tastes are creating waves over winners and losers both at home and abroad. Teahouses in China already are being replaced by coffeehouses, and Starbucks, with more than 140 stores, has spawned a cottage industry of copycats. 
 With tea in abundance in China, more and more is being shipped abroad, by third-generation tea farmers like Pan Jintu, who wants to supply green tea to Starbucks stores in the United States.
 ''Many people love tea now, so I foresee our business will grow,'' he said, standing amid his rows of tea bushes, as women in broad hats plucked tea leaves in the surrounding hillsides here.
 But expanding sales by Chinese tea growers like Mr. Pan are causing alarm in other developing countries that depend on growing tea, like India, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Kenya, Malawi and Zimbabwe.
 While the growth of China's textile industry with the end of global textile quotas has attracted more attention as a threat to poor countries, China's tea industry also poses a challenge to some of the world's poorest nations. China is now poised to become the world's largest tea exporter by tonnage, overtaking Sri Lanka this year and Kenya next year. 
 Wide swaths of people across Asia depend on the tea industry for survival. Particularly vulnerable are countries that suffered from the tsunami last December: Indonesia, India and above all Sri Lanka, where income from the growing, processing and transport of tea helps feed nearly a tenth of the people, according to the Asian Development Bank.
 Yet China's re-emergence as the world's leading tea exporter invokes a centuries-old pattern: the British East India Company, which bought its tea from China, held a monopoly on supplying Britain until 1834. Only when that monopoly was broken did other countries become big exporters. The saying ''I wouldn't do that for all the tea in China'' came to mean a refusal to do something even for a large and valuable payment. 
 The history of tea itself reaches back to ancient times in China. The earliest known literary references date back nearly 5,000 years, when Emperor Shen Nung is said to have discovered the infusion when leaves dropped into his hot water by chance.
 Green tea is widely believed to have some medical benefits. Black tea, which may have similar benefits, is used in everything from Darjeeling to Earl Grey and is made from the leaves of the same tea plants as green tea, though processed differently.
 But after millennia of popularity, tea consumption in China is growing by only 2 percent a year, according to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome. By contrast, Chinese figures show tea production rising 8.7 percent last year and rapidly accelerating as recently planted tea bushes reach maturity and as inefficiently managed, state-owned farms are turned over to output-conscious entrepreneurs.
 For the last three years, Beijing has set as its top goal the alleviation of rural poverty and high income inequality between coastal cities and rural areas, to the benefit of the tea industry. Municipal and provincial governments now vie to offer subsidies to an industry seen as an answer to lingering poverty and unemployment in the countryside, and are paying up to half the cost for the planting of new tea farms and the building of tea-processing factories.
 Beijing has also eliminated an 8 percent tax on tea production as a way to increase rural incomes. Tea promotion policies, which also include heavy spending on research institutes to develop better strains of tea as well as subsidies, do seem to bring greater prosperity to tea-growing areas. 
 A 100-mile drive on the modern, four-lane highway from here to Hangzhou, at the northern end of east-central Zhejiang Province, passes dozens of villages bulging with new, three-story homes built of brick or concrete and featuring the garish green or blue tinted windows now in fashion here. Every few miles stands a new brick factory with a towering chimney belching smoke.
 Jin Yuemei, a 54-year-old peasant near Hangzhou, paused before dousing nearly waist-high tea plants with an anticaterpillar pesticide and described how her home now held a television set, a refrigerator and even a couple of air-conditioners. ''Everyone has these things,'' she said. ''We are quite rich now.''
 Government support helped produce an 18.9 percent jump in Chinese tea exports last year, to $437 million, in a global market that is nearly stagnant, according to official Chinese figures released at a conference in Hangzhou on Sept. 28. Because of the sudden sensitivity, Chinese officials have become a bit reticent about their future levels of tea production, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization.
 China's surge in tea caught many off guard. Tea growers in India, Sri Lanka and Indonesia invested in new processing equipment to produce green tea instead of black tea only to discover recently that China has become their looming competitor. 
 They are only now beginning to see the giant steps, like investing in infrastructure, that China is making to improve its tea-making capability. 
 Such advanced infrastructure far outpaces tea growers in India, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, Indonesia and other countries who make do with dirt roads and repeated power failures. The wide roads here lower costs to ship in diesel fuel to power the processing factories and ship out tea; electricity failures, a problem last year, have faded here as more generating plants are built.
 ''There's no way the containers could get to our farms,'' because the roads are too narrow and the bridges too low, said Ranga Bedi, a tea grower near Bangalore, India.
 Tea production is a huge employer in countries around the Indian Ocean, including East African nations and Bangladesh as well as India, Sri Lanka and Indonesia. But already, four dozen large farms producing black tea have shut down in the last two years, displacing tens of thousands of workers in southern India. Tea is one of the world's most labor-intensive crops, with leaves that need to be harvested weekly for 7 to 12 months of the year.
 Although no one can yet read the tea leaves, several challenges could temper China's tea business. 
 With so many hillside forests cleared to make way for tea bushes, erosion has become a problem. ''The central government will restrain them some, because if people keep developing tea gardens as they wish, a lot of trees will be cut down,'' said Dai Changhua, the deputy general manager of Bonna Tea Enterprise near here in Jiashan County.
 Prosperity here is pushing up wages, so farms already are drawing migrants from other provinces, and have sometimes used prison labor over the years. The winters, though milder than in northern China, mean that tea bushes in central China stop producing new leaves for harvest from mid-October to mid-March. In contrast, tea bushes in warmer climes, like southern India and western Java in Indonesia, can be harvested all year long.
 Finally, even a small appreciation in China's currency ''will really affect our business,'' said Xu Hairong, the deputy director of the Tea Research Institute at Zhejiang University here.
 For the global industry, the bigger worry is how much Chinese tea will be arriving in world markets. That flood of tea will grow only if people in China keep switching to other beverages. Starbucks sells tea, as well as coffee, in China, but it has found that Chinese customers prefer the coffee, said Christine Day, the company's president for Asia and the Pacific.
 At a popular tea house in Hangzhou, a married couple of traditional Chinese medical practitioners savored a pot on a recent late afternoon but mourned that their 25-year-old son did not share their interest in the ancient brew.
 ''He doesn't like tea,'' said the husband, who only gave his family name, Ren, because of a wariness of foreigners that is common among older Chinese. ''He doesn't like coffee, he mostly drinks Sprite, Coca-Cola and water.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers pick tea leaves near Jinhua, China. Tea is one of the world's most labor-intensive crops. (Photo by Nelson Ching for The New York Times)(pg. C4)
Tea remains a popular drink in China, but many young Chinese are turning to other beverages, from coffee to Coca-Cola. (Photo by Nelson Ching for The New York Times)(pg. A1)Chart: ''Rising to the Top''China's government has begun subsidizing the tea industry in the last few years. That has helped make China the third-biggest exporter of tea and has put it on track to surpass Kenya and Sri Lanka.Graph tracks China's Tea exports since 2001.2004 TEA EXPORTS, THOUSANDS OF TONSKenya: 323Sri Lanka: 321China: 311India: 197Indonesia: 108(Sources by United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization
 China Chamber of Commerce for Imports and Exports of Foodstuffs, Native Produce and Animal Byproducts)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA FARMING (92%); TEA (91%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COFFEE & TEA (89%); TEA MARKETS (89%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); FAMILY FARMS (77%); TSUNAMIS (74%); WINE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (64%); TEXTILES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%) Tea; International Trade and World Market; Tea; Crop Controls and Subsidies

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (93%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (63%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); STARBUCKS CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (93%); ATB (ASX) (63%); KO (NYSE) (57%); SBUX (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (63%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); INDONESIA (94%); INDIA (93%); KENYA (92%); ASIA (92%); MALAWI (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) China; India; Sri Lanka; Indonesia; Bangladesh; Kenya; Malawi; Zimbabwe

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



222 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Turmoil at Refco, a Futures Trading Firm, After Discovery of a $430 Million Transaction
Refco Inc., a futures trading company that went public two months ago, ousted its chief executive, Phillip R. Bennett, after discovering that a firm he controlled owed the company $430 million. Refco said that Mr. Bennett had repaid the money in cash the same day. Refco's shares fell 45 percent yesterday, reducing the company's market value by $1.65 billion. [Page C1.]

Concern Over Production Limits of Avian Flu Drug
Roche, the maker of the main drug that would be used against a possible bird flu epidemic, is under growing pressure to allow production of generic versions of the medicine. But the company and some outside experts say production of the drug, Tamiflu, is so complex and time-consuming that even generic makers could not quickly expand global supplies. [C1.]

The European Union announced that it was temporarily banning all imports of live poultry and feathers from Turkey, which reported its first cases of bird flu over the weekend. [A21.]

As worries increase about the possibility of a flu pandemic, public health officials are quietly hoping that this year's flu season will be the first in years with an abundance of vaccines. [A21.]

From Delphi Chief, a Warning to Automakers
Robert S. Miller Jr., the chief executive of Delphi, predicted that General Motors and Ford Motor could find themselves following Delphi into bankruptcy court in the next few years unless they move to reduce their labor costs. [C1.]

Kirk Kerkorian, the billionaire financier who recently became G.M.'s largest shareholder, and his point man, Jerome B. York, are not expected to remain on the sidelines as the company enters a difficult time. [C1.]

Ford said that two high-ranking executives were stepping aside: Phil Martens, head of North American product development, and Matt DeMars, who oversaw North American manufacturing. [C13.]

Icahn Steps Up His Pressure on Time Warner
Carl C. Icahn, the activist investor, has increased his stake in Time Warner Inc. and is challenging the track record of the company's senior managers and directors dating back to its fateful merger with America Online Inc. The moves are part of his campaign to push for changes and board seats at the media conglomerate. Mr. Icahn is expected to say in a letter to Time Warner shareholders that the company's board and top management has achieved a ''dismal record of mistakes and inaction'' since the AOL merger in 2000. [C12.]

Trade Dispute Takes New Turn With U.S. Proposal
An aggressive proposal by the United States to cut farm subsidies raises the ante between America and Europe over aid to farmers, a central sticking point in stalled global trade talks. [C1.]

Worries Over China's Growing Role as Tea Exporter
With tea in abundance in China, more is being shipped abroad, causing alarm in other developing countries that depend on growing tea. [A1.]

Dire Heating Cost Forecast Spurs Consumer Action
People who have been stunned by predictions of the skyrocketing cost of natural gas this winter are taking actions ranging from procuring alternative fuel sources to tightening their budgets. [A18.]

Singapore Shows 3.2% Growth in Quarter
Singapore's economy expanded 3.2 percent in the third quarter, according to preliminary estimates based on two months of data. Economists said that put the country on track to beat government projections for growth this year of between 3.5 percent and 4.5 percent. [C4.]

Major U.S. Stock Indicators Decline
Stocks fell on gloomy corporate forecasts. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 53.55 points, to 10,238.76. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 8.57 points, to 1,187.33, while the Nasdaq composite index sank 11.43 points, to 2,078.92. [C13.]

Microsoft to Market New Xbox to Women
Microsoft hopes to win a bigger share of the market away from the PlayStation 2, the top-selling console made by Sony, by promoting a more family-friendly image for the new Xbox. Brochures going out to major retailers like Best Buy prominently describe the new unit's ability to double as a DVD player, play music from an MP3 player through a television's speakers and display digital photos on a TV. [C7.]

Capital One Makes a Contrarian Acquisition
At a time when most stand-alone credit card businesses have sold themselves to big banks, Capital One is doing the opposite and buying a midsize commercial bank, the Hibernia Corporation. [C6.]

Hotels Drawing Ire Over Fees for Web Access
A backlash is building against hotels that charge extra for Internet access. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C8.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Microsoft's share prices and daily closes since July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (91%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FUTURES (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); TEA (78%); TEA MARKETS (78%); POULTRY (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); TRADE DISPUTES (67%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: REFCO INC (91%); TIME WARNER INC (81%); AOL INC (81%); FORD MOTOR CO (72%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (81%); AOL (NYSE) (81%); FORDP (PAR) (72%); F (NYSE) (72%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (91%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (72%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (73%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



223 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Ferrer Camp Finds City's Deep Pockets Suddenly Sewed Up

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL; Patrick D. Healy contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Four years ago, when Fernando Ferrer was among the Democrats vying to become mayor, some of the city's wealthiest and most prominent donors, many of them in real estate, supported him, pumping tens of thousands of dollars into his campaign. Back then, his campaign finance filings read like a who's who of high-rolling New York, littered with names like Durst, Dolan, Rudin, Wilpon and Trump.
 This time around, when Mr. Ferrer finally has the Democratic nomination, such prominent donors have stopped giving money to him. Whether out of fear of retaliation from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg or a simple lack of desire to see Mr. Ferrer replace him, few of the deep-pocket supporters whom candidates have traditionally relied on have opened their checkbooks for him.
In New York politics, the large real estate families typically spread their wealth among the mayoral candidates, effectively hedging their bets. 
 That was certainly the case in 2001, when Mr. Ferrer made it to the primary runoff but lost to Mark Green.
 That year, members of the Dolan family, who run Cablevision and own Madison Square Garden, gave Mr. Ferrer $18,000, and executives and employees of Tishman Speyer, a large real estate concern, gave him $12,500. Douglas Durst, the developer, and his daughters laid down nearly $10,000, while Larry Silverstein, another developer, gave $4,500, then the maximum an individual could contribute under campaign finance laws. Even Daniel L. Doctoroff, a private money manager at the time who is now a deputy mayor under Mr. Bloomberg, gave Mr. Ferrer $2,000.
 This year, they have given him nothing.
 Although Ferrer aides and supporters express confidence that they will be able to raise the money they need, especially since they are strengthening their operation and preparing for fund-raising help from national figures, there are nonetheless several roadblocks in their way.
 For one, a group of wealthy Democratic fund-raisers and donors have organized to build support for Mr. Bloomberg in a move that will deprive Mr. Ferrer of a much-needed financial lifeline. In addition, some fund-raisers working on Mr. Ferrer's behalf say his campaign has been leaning increasingly to the left, both in its language and in its base of support, making some potential donors nervous that a Ferrer administration would be antagonistic to business.
 There is also some worry that Mr. Bloomberg, who has held commanding leads in most polls, will not look kindly on donors who give to his opponent, and many potential donors do business with the city or need the administration's approval for their projects.
 ''There are people who have said no to me because they're afraid of the mayor,'' said Leo J. Hindery, Mr. Ferrer's chief fund-raiser, citing the real estate and finance industries as particularly lean. ''Our average contribution is $300. If one $4,950 person disappears,'' he said, referring to a donor giving the new maximum, ''then we have to go find 16 more people.''
 ''I find it troublesome that the incumbent mayor has made fund-raising difficult from people who have historically been progressive in their views,'' he added. 
 ''I find that hard to believe,'' said William T. Cunningham, a senior adviser to the Bloomberg campaign. ''These are New Yorkers, and if they've given to campaigns before, they have usually given to a multitude of candidates for a multitude of reasons.'' He also said the Ferrer campaign was in trouble: ''This is a campaign that's flailing. They have been doing nothing but complaining about debate locations, and now they're complaining about their fund-raising.''
 Campaign finance filings released on Friday show the depth of Mr. Ferrer's financial trouble: he has raised only $232,000 since winning his party's nomination on Sept. 13, and he had only $555,000 in his campaign bank account last Monday. That amount is expected to grow by $316,000 when matching funds arrive this week from the city's Campaign Finance Board. 
 Mr. Ferrer's supporters, while emphasizing the potential for a turnaround, concede that the slow pace has been disappointing, especially given the flood the campaign expected once Mr. Ferrer became the nominee.
 ''I think first you had the moment of paralysis as to whether or not there was going to be a runoff, and now I think things are going to be gearing up,'' said Lewis A. Fidler, a Brooklyn city councilman who has been pressed into service raising money. ''It takes some time, and certainly, of course, the difficulty comes from people who think, 'What's the point, Mike Bloomberg can't lose,''' he said. ''There are some people who don't want to be on the wrong side. They're not looking for retaliation.'' 
 As a result, the Ferrer operation, which is up against a self-financed billionaire who has already spent nearly $47 million, has been feverishly trying to raise money in recent weeks, pressing fund-raisers, consultants and elected officials to bring in more cash. Money is so tight that it can barely afford to keep commercials on television at this critical time. On Spanish-language television, for instance, the campaign is trying to maintain a presence by running a series of ads that last 15 seconds, rather than the traditional 30. 
 ''It's tough,'' Mr. Hindery said. ''If the standard is the mayor, then we're never going to come close to that. Against the standard that was set in races dating back to Lindsay, we're fine.''
 He said that the campaign would be able to raise somewhere in the vicinity of $13 million to $19 million. ''But it's never enough against a self-funder who's willing to spend more than anyone has spent ever,'' he said.
 Still, the situation is ripe for a turnaround, and consultants are suggesting that the money will come if Mr. Ferrer's standing rises in opinion polls, where he trails by at least 15 percentage points. 
 ''If Freddy moves in the polls there will be some people who want to hedge their bets and give to Freddy,'' said George Arzt, a veteran of City Hall. ''The vested interests always want to be on the side of a winner, and they don't like to take chances, so they'll bet on both horses.''
 And help is on the way. Howard Dean came to New York yesterday and said he would push a national fund-raising drive for Mr. Ferrer, while John Edwards is headlining two fund-raisers tonight, and Hillary Clinton and John Kerry have scheduled events for next week. 
 Mr. Dean would not give a dollar-figure goal but said he expected that nationally, Democrats would donate to support electing the first Hispanic mayor of New York, and that the Democrats-for-Bloomberg movement would die out in the end.
 ''There's been some press about Democrats who aren't supporting Freddy,'' Mr. Dean said. ''Maybe there are three or four. I speak for the Democratic Party, I'm the only one who can do that. The Democratic Party of the United States of America is vigorously supporting Freddy Ferrer for mayor.''
 Still, if the present giving patterns persist, raising money will remain an uphill battle. The real estate industry, in particular, has always been a crucial source of support for candidates, and Mr. Ferrer, who raised more than $5 million over all in 2001, has had difficulty duplicating his success in that sector outside of the Bronx, where he was borough president. In 2001, when there was no incumbent and no Democrat sufficiently dominating the primary, the major developers organized to raise $250,000 for each of the four.
 This time, things are much different. ''The industry has a preference for incumbents in general,'' said Steven Spinola, president of the city's powerful Real Estate Board, an industry trade group. Mr. Spinola dismissed the notion that business people were afraid to offend the mayor by giving to Mr. Ferrer, although he called it ''a good excuse not to give to someone.''
 His members, he said, are happy with conditions in the city under Mr. Bloomberg. ''And when you have someone who has led the city to where the economy is doing well, there's even more reason for people to be supportive of the incumbent.''
 ''To give to the mayor's opponent,'' he added, ''means you're supporting the mayor's opponent.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fernando Ferrer, the Democratic mayoral nominee, marched yesterday in the Columbus Day parade on Fifth Avenue along with Andrew M. Cuomo. Mr. Ferrer is not getting as much financial support as he did in 2001. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%) Finances

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%) Diane Cardwell; Fernando (Boro Pres) Ferrer; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



224 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Liberal Hopes Ebb in Post-Storm Poverty Debate

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
As Hurricane Katrina put the issue of poverty onto the national agenda, many liberal advocates wondered whether the floods offered a glimmer of opportunity. The issues they most cared about -- health care, housing, jobs, race -- were suddenly staples of the news, with President Bush pledged to ''bold action.''
 But what looked like a chance to talk up new programs is fast becoming a scramble to save the old ones.
 Conservatives have already used the storm for causes of their own, like suspending requirements that federal contractors have affirmative action plans and pay locally prevailing wages. And with federal costs for rebuilding the Gulf Coast estimated at up to $200 billion, Congressional Republican leaders are pushing for spending cuts, with programs like Medicaid and food stamps especially vulnerable. 
 ''We've had a stunning reversal in just a few weeks,'' said Robert Greenstein, director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal advocacy group in Washington. ''We've gone from a situation in which we might have a long-overdue debate on deep poverty to the possibility, perhaps even the likelihood, that low-income people will be asked to bear the costs. I would find it unimaginable if it wasn't actually happening.''
 Mr. Greenstein's comments were echoed by Representative Rosa DeLauro, Democrat of Connecticut: ''Poor people are going to get the short end of the stick, despite all the public sympathy. That's a great irony.''
 But many conservatives see logic, not irony, at work. If the storm exposed great poverty, they say, it also exposed the problems of the very policies that liberals have supported. 
 ''This is not the time to expand the programs that were failing anyway,'' said Stuart M. Butler, a vice president of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research and advocacy group influential on Capitol Hill. 
 While the right has proposed alternatives including tax-free zones for businesses and school vouchers for students, Mr. Butler said, ''the left has just talked up the old paradigm: 'let's expand what's failed before.'''
 Doubt about the effectiveness of some programs is only one factor shaping the current antipoverty debate. Another is political muscle: poor people do not make campaign contributions. Many do not even vote. 
 A third factor is the federal deficit, which leaves little money for new initiatives. And a fourth is the continuing support for tax cuts, including those aimed at the wealthiest Americans, which further limits spending on social programs.
 Indeed, even as he was calling for deep spending cuts last week, Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana, who leads the conservative caucus, called tax reductions for the prosperous a key to fighting poverty.
 ''Raising taxes in the wake of a national catastrophe would imperil the very economic growth we need to bring the Gulf Coast back,'' Mr. Pence said. ''I'm mindful of what a pipe fitter once said to President Reagan: 'I've never been hired by a poor man.' A growing economy is in the interest of every working American, regardless of their income.''
 Economic growth is crucial to reducing poverty, but the effect of tax rates is less clear. In 1993, President Bill Clinton raised taxes on upper-income families, the economy boomed and poverty fell for the next seven years. In 2001, President Bush cut taxes deeply, but even with economic growth, the poverty rate has risen every year since.
 In 2004, about 12.7 percent of the country, or 37 million people, lived below the poverty line, which was about $19,200 for a family of four. The figure was 7.8 percent among whites, 24.7 percent among blacks and 21.9 percent among Hispanics. 
 Hurricane Katrina gave those figures a face as no statistic can. 
 ''As all of us saw on television, there is also some deep, persistent poverty in this region,'' with ''roots in a history of racial discrimination,'' President Bush said in a Sept. 15 speech from New Orleans. Using the language of the civil rights movement, Mr. Bush pledged ''not just to cope, but to overcome.''
 But liberal critics say his policies will have the opposite effect. 
 The week before his speech, Mr. Bush suspended the Davis-Bacon Act, a 1931 law that prohibits federally financed construction jobs from paying wages less than a local average. The administration argued that the suspension, which applied only to storm areas, would benefit local residents by stretching financial resources. 
 Critics said the savings would come at the expense of needy workers. 
 Likewise, the president suspended rules requiring federal contractors to file affirmative action plans, which his allies called cumbersome.
 ''He talks about lending a helping hand to the poor and disadvantaged,'' Jared Bernstein, a researcher at the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research and advocacy group in Washington, said of Mr. Bush. ''But these policies push the other way, toward lower wages and less racial inclusion.''
 In another dispute, the president has taken on a senior member of his own party, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee. 
 Mr. Grassley wants to expand Medicaid to cover all the poor who survived Hurricane Katrina, including many adults who did not previously qualify. The expansion would last five months, though it could be extended, and the federal government would cover the costs. 
 While most Democrats support the measure, the Bush administration strongly opposes it, arguing that evacuees would be served faster through more modest changes in existing state programs. 
 In part, the dispute has the feel of a proxy war about the larger fate of the program, which the administration has sharply criticized. 
 A similar proxy war has played out in housing policy after the Senate voted to house evacuees through the Section 8 program, which offers poor people subsidies for private housing. Critical of the program's cost, the administration instead created a parallel voucher program for hurricane evacuees.
 In budget battles, the storm had one immediate effect: delaying the $35 billion in spending cuts ordered in last spring's Congressional budget resolution. About $10 billion over five years was expected to come from Medicaid and about $600 million from food stamps.
 The delay occurred after some lawmakers said it was wrong to cut safety net programs with so many storm survivors seeking aid. 
 But the pendulum is swinging the other way. Concerned about the storm's costs, a group of 100 House conservatives released a list of suggested spending cuts totaling $370 billion over five years.
 And President Bush weighed in last week, saying, ''Congress needs to pay for as much of the hurricane relief as possible by cutting spending.''
 The chairman of the House Budget Committee, Representative Jim Nussle, Republican of Iowa, wants to increase the cuts in the budget bill to $50 billion, from the $35 billion agreed on last spring. Senate leaders are also talking of new cuts, though they have not announced a numerical goal. 
 As they search for spending cuts, neither chamber has turned away from the $70 billion package of tax reductions authorized last spring. Mr. Greenstein, of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, says those tax cuts come on top of two others, passed in 2001, that are scheduled to take effect in January and that benefit the wealthiest Americans. 
 Mr. Greenstein argues that the logic of shared sacrifice requires the tax cuts to be reconsidered. But most Congressional Republicans disagree, including Mr. Pence, the conservative leader. 
 ''To allow tax cuts to lapse is a tax increase,'' Mr. Pence said, ''and the economy would suffer.'' 
 Some conservatives say the storm, in exposing the depth of poverty, gives them a chance to push their own solutions to the problem, like school vouchers or subsidies to help poor people accumulate assets.
 ''What we've done for the poor hasn't worked,'' said Robert L. Woodson, president of the National Center for Neighborhood Enterprise, a conservative policy group. ''People are going to say, 'How did these people get into this circumstance in the first place?' It gives us an opportunity to really turn over a new leaf.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Mike Pence, right, with his press secretary, Matt Lloyd, says raising taxes on the wealthy would hinder the Gulf Coast's revival. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); HURRICANES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (85%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); WEATHER (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); MEDICAID (77%); POLITICS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); CAUCUSES (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (61%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (56%) United States Economy; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Election Issues; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; United States Economy; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (56%)

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); ROSA DELAURO (56%) Jason Deparle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Louisiana; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



225 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Aid Arrives in Kashmir; Death Toll Rises in India
In Muzaffarabad, the capital city of Pakistani-controlled Kashmir devastated by the recent earthquake, melees broke out as army convoys carrying tents, blankets and rice moved in on roads that had been blocked by mudslides. The death toll on the Pakistani side still hovered around 20,000, while across the Line of Control in the Indian sector of Kashmir the number of dead climbed sharply to over 900. A1

Woman to Lead Germany
Angela Merkel, the leader of Germany's main conservative party, announced a deal that allows her to become chancellor in a coalition government. Mrs. Merkel will succeed Gerhard Schroder, whose party has held power for seven years and will share power in the new government. A1

Mrs. Merkel, 51, is poised to become the first woman to serve as chancellor of Germany and the first eastern German to lead the reunified country. A7

Iraqis No Closer to Charter Deal
Political leaders representing Shiite, Kurdish and Sunni Arab blocs met to discuss last-minute changes to the draft constitution that might persuade more Sunnis to vote for the document in Saturday's referendum. By the end of the day, Sunni leaders said they were no closer to a deal. A8

Jailed Russian Tycoon is Moved
Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the Yukos oil company chairman turned convict, was recently moved from his holding cell near Moscow and was believed to be en route to a Russian prison camp to serve the rest of his sentence, his lawyers and their spokeswoman said. A11

'The Sea' Wins Booker Prize
In a surprise choice, ''The Sea,'' a novel by the Irish writer John Banville about the emotional return of an elderly widower to the coastal town where he spent a traumatic vacation decades earlier, won the Man Booker Prize for fiction, Britain's most influential literary award. A11

NATIONAL A14-21

Grandparents Win Right To Visit Granddaughter
Ohio's highest court unanimously ruled that the grandparents of an 8-year-old girl must be allowed to visit her over the objections of her father, upholding the constitutionality of a state law granting nonparents visitation rights to children. A14

Clash Over Poverty Remedies
As Hurricane Katrina put the issue of poverty onto the national agenda, many liberal advocates wondered whether the floods offered a glimmer of opportunity. But what looked like a chance to talk up new programs is fast becoming a scramble to save the old ones. A1

President Bush traveled to New Orleans to spotlight its progress in recovering from Hurricane Katrina. This is Mr. Bush's eighth visit to the region since the hurricane struck. A16

Military Ponders Disaster Unit
The military's Northern Command is developing a proposal to organize a specially trained and equipped active-duty force that could respond quickly to assist relief efforts in natural disasters. A15

Officers Rebut Video Evidence
Three New Orleans police officers pleaded not guilty in court to battery charges in connection with the videotaped beating of a man in the city's French Quarter, apparently while they were trying to arrest him. A16

Preparing for Rough Flu Season
As worries increase about the possibility of a flu pandemic, public health officials are quietly hoping that this year's flu season will be the first in years with an abundance of vaccines available to the public. A21

Bush Revered in Nominee Files
Harriet E. Miers, President Bush's personal lawyer and his pick for a seat on the United States Supreme Court, emerges as an unabashed fan of Mr. Bush in 2,000 pages of official correspondence and personal notes made public by the Texas State Library and Archives Commission. A19

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Subway Security Eases As Threat Loses Steam
New York officials scaled back security in the city's subways after federal and local law enforcement authorities all but discounted the report of a terrorist threat. B1

Inquiry in Niagara Falls
Vince V. Anello, the mayor of Niagara Falls, N.Y., is being scrutinized by federal investigators trying to determine if he illegally took money from a prominent developer and gave him favorable treatment. B2

Money Woes for Ferrer
Fernando Ferrer's campaign for mayor of New York is hitting a big roadblock: the real estate titans who gave him money in 2001 have stopped doing so, either out of fear of retaliation from Mayor Bloomberg or a simple lack of desire to see Mr. Ferrer replace him. A1

OBITUARIES B9

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F5

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

Yankees Lose in Game 5
The Los Angeles Angels defeated the Yankees, 5-3, in Game 5 of the American League division series. The Angels will face the Chicago White Sox for the A.L. Championship. A1

ARTS E1-12

Van Gogh's Ink Drawings
The Metropolitan Museum of Art plans to unveil ''Vincent van Gogh: The Drawings,'' the first major exhibition of the artist's drawings ever held in the United States. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-20

Refco Ousts Chief Executive
Refco, a futures-trading company that went public two months ago, ousted its chief executive, Phillip R. Bennett, after discovering that a firm he controlled owed the company $430 million. Refco's shares fell 45 percent. C1

Push for Generic Flu Drug
Roche, the maker of Tamiflu, the main drug that would be used against a possible bird flu epidemic, is under growing pressure to allow production of generic versions of the medicine. But the company warns that production of the drug is very complex. C1

Two Win Nobel in Economics
Robert J. Aumann and Thomas C. Schelling won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science for their work in game theory. C2

Icahn Presses Time Warner
Carl C. Icahn, the activist investor, has increased his stake in Time Warner and is challenging the track record of the company's senior managers and directors dating back to its merger with America Online. C9

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: A confirmation debate in reverse; fortresses against flu; the mortgage gap; inexpert selection.

Columns: John Tierney, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E10
TV Listings E11
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); HURRICANES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (88%); GRANDPARENTS (86%); ARMIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); WOMEN (75%); SENTENCING (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); REFERENDUMS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); PRISONS (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); WRITERS (68%); LITERATURE (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); LAWYERS (66%); GRANDPARENT RIGHTS (66%); COASTAL AREAS (64%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (75%); GERHARD SCHRODER (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%) KASHMIR (95%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (91%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) ASIA (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



226 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Rice Presses For Fair Voting In Central Asia

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: SHANNON, Ireland, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, beginning a trip to Central Asia, urged the region's leaders on Monday to hold ''elections that are free and fair,'' even though in one state she plans to visit nearly all the likely opposition candidates have been jailed and in another laws have been passed that stack the odds in favor of the present rulers.
 During her visits this week to Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and Tajikistan, all former Soviet republics, she will raise difficult and conflicting issues as Russia looks on warily. They include military basing rights, energy and economic relationships, and drug trafficking problems in the region. But Ms. Rice made it clear that promoting democracy would be central to her mission. 
 ''We seek strong and deep relations,'' she said in a discussion with reporters aboard her plane, ''but one of the elements of a strong and deep relationship with the United States these days is moving forward with democracy.''
 In Kazakhstan, where an election for president is to be held in December, the government has been harassing the news media and private groups, afraid that they will stir popular unrest as similar groups are thought to have done in Kyrgyzstan in March. In Kyrgyzstan, the opposition seized power after a popular uprising unseated the government.
 In Tajikistan, which Ms. Rice will visit midweek, the government sentenced Makhmadrouzi Iskandarov, arguably the most important opposition leader, to 23 years in prison last week after a conviction on charges that included weapons possession and terrorism. Other potential opposition candidates were jailed earlier. President Emomali Rakhmonov has enacted a rule that will allow him to remain in power until 2020 if re-elected next year.
 While discussing democracy with Mr. Rakhmonov, Ms. Rice might also raise the issue of military basing rights. The United States is being evicted from its base in Uzbekistan, and Ms. Rice made it plain that the military must ''maintain the ability to move and be flexible'' in the region in order to curb terrorism.
 Ms. Rice will also stop in Afghanistan, where she will discuss slowing the opium trade among other issues. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (75%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); SENTENCING (72%); OPIUM (70%); TERRORISM (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTRAL ASIA (94%); KYRGYZSTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); TAJIKISTAN (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



227 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; For Big Three, All the Signs Are Warnings; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: Echoes of Chrysler Bid as Kerkorian Squeezes G.M.

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Jerome B. York is looking over Rick Wagoner's shoulder, and that should make Mr. Wagoner nervous. 
 Mr. York, 66, is the point man for Kirk Kerkorian, the billionaire financier who in the last few months has become one of the largest shareholders in General Motors; Mr. Wagoner is G.M.'s chairman and chief executive.
Many analysts say they believe that Mr. York's emergence has put Mr. Wagoner's job security on the clock, because neither Mr. Kerkorian nor Mr. York is known for sitting on his hands. They are, in fact, reprising their roles of a decade ago, when Mr. Kerkorian was Chrysler's largest shareholder and turned to Mr. York to be his right-hand man in what became an unsuccessful and contentious takeover bid. 
 A spokeswoman for Tracinda, Mr. Kerkorian's private investment firm, said Mr. York would not comment for this article. 
 But several of G.M.'s assets are viewed as potentially expendable, people briefed on the situation said. Among them are parts of the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, G.M.'s large financial services division, including its insurance business and its mortgage business, pieces of which it has already sold. 
 The Saab brand is thought to not be worth further investment. Hummer is not seen as a core asset but one that should be sold.
 And while there is an appreciation of the difficulties that G.M. faces, Tracinda is not expected to remain on the sidelines unless the company comes up with a more comprehensive turnaround strategy that refocuses G.M. on making fewer, but more desirable, car and truck models.
 Tom Kowaleski, a spokesman for G.M., declined to comment on the company's relationship with Tracinda, but referring to Saab and Hummer, he said, ''We believe both of those brands are core to our growth and our ability to bring in non-G.M. customers.'' Through the first month of sales of the new Hummer H3, 70 percent of the buyers have never been G.M. owners before, Mr. Kowaleski said.
 Gerald C. Meyers, a professor at the University of Michigan business school, said of Tracinda, ''If they think they're going to lose a big chunk of their investment, they'll be quite vocal, and there will be a sense of urgency.''
 At different times, both Mr. York and Mr. Wagoner have taken part in corporate role-playing exercises Professor Meyers has organized for his business school students.
 ''He cuts through like a surgeon,'' Professor Meyers said of Mr. York, who is a former chief financial officer of both Chrysler and I.B.M. ''If you have a pile of numbers, he'll get right to the heart of things in a hurry, and he can make it hurt. Should Wagoner be worried? If the numbers don't speak friendly to a guy like York, it will become embarrassing. If you respond well to him, he can be a help.''
 G.M.'s standing was greatly complicated over the weekend by the bankruptcy filing of its former parts division, Delphi. G.M. agreed in its 1999 spinoff of Delphi to pay much of the medical, pension and life insurance benefits of Delphi retirees if the company filed for bankruptcy. G.M. said on Saturday that the filing could add as much as $11 billion to its future liabilities, more bad news for a company awash in red ink this year. 
 On Monday, reacting to the Delphi news, Standard & Poor's cut G.M.'s debt rating to BB-, three notches below investment grade, while Bank of America downgraded its rating on G.M.'s stock to sell. G.M. has already been battered by plummeting sales despite spending heavily on discounts, and its product lineup relies on sales of big sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks at a time when Americans are being pinched by gas prices.
 G.M.'s shares plunged $2.81, or nearly 10 percent, to $25.48 in trading on Monday. 
 Ron Tadross, Bank of America's auto analyst, reckoned there was a 30 percent chance that G.M. would file for bankruptcy over the next two years, a more negative view than most of his colleagues on Wall Street have had. Most analysts say they think G.M. has sufficient resources to survive until September 2007, the deadline for a new labor contract, which could make or break the company. 
 ''Time is of the essence for an owner like Kerkorian,'' said Mr. Tadross, adding that even in a best-case situation where the union made concessions, ''if we hit a recession or the stock market is flat a few years, any combination of small-risk scenarios could make a $30 stock worth $15 or $20.''
 What does Tracinda have in mind for G.M.? Mr. Kerkorian's investment group has accumulated a nearly 10 percent stake in the company, as far as it can go without being considered an insider and submitting to a variety of regulatory requirements. But Tracinda has already indicated it might not remain passive, saying in a securities filing last month that it could seek a seat on G.M.'s board. 
 The company bought about 22 million shares between $25 and $27, nearly 19 million shares at $31, 8 million shares at $35, and a little over 5 million shares at $35.71.
 ''I think what Kerkorian will do is make sure he gets a guy on the board, and that could be Jerry, and he will start asking those tough questions and start prodding management,'' said Tom Gilman, a former top finance executive at Chrysler and a friend of Mr. York's. 
 Mr. York is a well-known figure in Detroit, having spent 14 years at Chrysler and having helped to turn around the company. He is known for being a tough cost-cutter, a numbers man bent on rigorous analysis. 
 ''The combination of West Point discipline, M.I.T. analytical skills and University of Michigan business sense gives you a pretty good idea who Jerry York is,'' said Mr. Gilman. 
 In 1993, Mr. York was recruited by I.B.M.'s chief executive, Louis V. Gerstner Jr., when that company was in need of its own turnaround. Mr. York assigned hundreds of managers to cost-cutting task forces, with the goal of reaching various benchmarks set by the company's most efficient competitors. Among his achievements was turning over I.B.M.'s computer inventory 3.5 times a year, up from 2.8, which he estimated saved $2 billion. 
 ''You've got to get people looking outside the company at customers and competitors,'' Mr. York said in a 1994 interview with The New York Times. 
 John R. Joyce, who worked with Mr. York at I.B.M. and who later also became chief financial officer, said, ''if I was going to pick one word to describe him, it would be discipline.''
 ''Whether or not you say he was too tough, I wouldn't say that, I can't say that, because that's what the organization needed at that time,'' he added. 
 Such was Mr. York's track record at I.B.M. that on the day his departure for Tracinda was announced in September 1995, I.B.M.'s stock fell 2 percent on a day that other computer stocks rallied. 
 Mr. York has also had his misses. He was part of a group that paid $725 million in 1999 for Micro Warehouse, a direct marketer of computers, and Mr. York served as chief executive of the company from 2000 to 2003, when it was sold to a competitor for just $22 million. It filed for bankruptcy shortly thereafter. 
 In Detroit, he is perhaps best known for taking part in what became a notably rancorous takeover attempt of Chrysler, after he joined Tracinda in 1995. Included among Mr. Kerkorian's group was the former Chrysler chairman, Lee A. Iacocca, who was persona non grata around Chrysler until his recent return as the company's television pitchman.
 Several insiders, however, have said that the previous takeover attempt was not intended to be hostile, but only turned that way after a misunderstood 11th-hour phone call between Mr. Kerkorian and Robert J. Eaton, then Chrysler's chief executive, in which Mr. Kerkorian laid out the deal he was proposing. 
 ''Bob Eaton said. 'Yeah, O.K., I'll take it to the board,' meaning 'I'll take it to the board and they'll probably say no,' and Kirk Kerkorian honestly believed that Bob Eaton was saying, 'I'll take it to the board and I'll recommend approval,''' said Robert A. Lutz, G.M.'s vice chairman, who was Chrysler's president during the takeover attempt. 
 ''I think the most astonished guy in the world was Kirk Kerkorian the next day, when he got this, 'We categorically reject this; we will fight them on the beaches.''' He thought he was doing a friendly leveraged buyout with management, Mr. Lutz said, ''and it turned out to be hostile.''
 Mr. Lutz sees Mr. Kerkorian as a bargain-hunting investor. 
 ''He smells turnaround,'' he said recently to reporters. ''He has an infallible instinct for getting in at the right time.''
 Mr. Gilman had a somewhat different take. 
 ''Frankly, if you look at Kerkorian, his investment behavior is replicated in every investment that he does,'' he said. ''Whether it's Western Airlines or MGM or Chrysler, he sees a large pool of cash sitting there with an indecisive management team and sees it as a chance to do one of three things,'' he added, referring to some of Mr. Kerkorian's previous high-profile investments.
 ''One would be, get the indecisive management team to start focusing on putting the money to work in the business, and in the auto business that means product, product, product. Or do a stock buyback program to drive up the share price. Or, if you're totally indecisive and can't even execute that, give it back to me in a dividend.'' He added: ''Jerry will challenge you and analyze and challenge the management to explain the justification.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Some observers believe that Kirk Kerkorian, below, will want to place Jerome B. York, left, on G.M.'s board. (Photo by Joe Cavaretta/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Saab Ab; Hummer Division of General Motors Corp; General Motors Acceptance Corp; General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (83%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (94%); RICK WAGONER (92%) Danny Hakim; Kirk Kerkorian; Jerome B York; Rick Wagoner

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



228 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

City Eases Subway Alert As Threat Is Discounted
New York officials scaled back security in the subways after federal and local law enforcement authorities discounted the report of a terrorist threat. ''There was no there there,'' a senior counterterrorism official said. Measures put in place after the London bombings will be retained. PAGE B1

Game Theory Earns a Nobel
Robert J. Aumann and Thomas C. Schelling won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science for their work in game theory, which explains the choices that people make in strategic thinking. PAGE C2

George W. Bush's No.1 Fan
Harriet E. Miers, the Supreme Court nominee, emerges as an unabashed fan of George W. Bush in official correspondence and personal notes made public in Texas. PAGE A19

Venezuelan vs. 'Mr. Danger'
President Hugo Chavez's most pressing concern seems to be what he sees as a plan by the Bush administration to kill him. PAGE A4

The Last of the Wild
Przewalski's horse, the last surviving wild species, disappeared from Mongolia in the 1960's. An effort is under way to reintroduce the animals. SCIENCE TIMES, PAGE F1

A Room of Her Own
A roomful of medical oddities, like the conjoined twin above, would be a strange memorial for most, but not for Gretchen Worden, who spent her adult life explaining such things as director of the Mutter Museum in Philadelphia. THE ARTS, PAGE E1

Ontario Invests in 'Rings'
Officials in Ontario -- on behalf of their 12 million citizens -- have taken the highly unusual step of signing on to invest in the ''Lord of the Rings'' musical, set to open in Toronto in March. THE ARTS, PAGE E1

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Scott Lindgren)
 (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); BOMBINGS (72%); HORSES (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); HUGO CHAVEZ (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (75%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (75%) CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



229 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Europe Entertains an American Offer to Cut Farm Aid

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO and TOM WRIGHT; Alexei Barrionuevo reported from Chicago for this article and Tom Wright from Zurich.

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
The United States upped the ante Monday in the delicate negotiations between America and Europe over aid to farmers, a central sticking point in stalled global trade talks. 
 The United States is seeking to swap cuts in subsidies for more access to global markets for its farmers. The European Union, while making some concessions, has so far declined to lower tariffs much further.
Europe's top trade negotiator cautiously welcomed the proposal by the United States to slash some agricultural subsidies by 60 percent over the next five years in exchange for tariff reductions of 55 percent to 90 percent. 
 Peter Mandelson, the European Union's trade commissioner, called the United States' move a ''constructive step,'' adding that Europe was willing to go ''substantially beyond'' the proposed American cuts. But he declined to comment on whether Europe could meet American demands on tariff reductions. 
 With time running out before a major meeting of the World Trade Organization in December in Hong Kong, Rob Portman, the United States trade representative, outlined his proposal on Monday in Zurich.
 Mr. Portman said it was up to ''those that subsidize more than the U.S.,'' meaning Europe and Japan, to move on the talks, especially on opening their highly protected farm markets to American agricultural products. ''We are offering real cuts to U.S. farmers in exchange for market access,'' he said. ''And if we are not able to achieve the market access, they cannot be supportive.''
 For American farmers, the pledged cuts would cause some economic pain, farm groups said Monday, particularly for crops like corn and soybeans, which rely on subsidies and were badly hit this summer in some parts of the Midwest from the worst drought since 1988. But critics of Mr. Portman's plan said the cuts would not address the main long-term issues of declining commodity prices and unchecked tendencies by farmers to overproduce.
 Developing countries like Brazil have been battling through the trade organization to eliminate global agricultural subsidies because they are hurting their ability to compete by depressing global commodity prices through the dumping of cheap agricultural products on the world market. 
 The trade talks, which began in Doha, Qatar, in 2001 under the World Trade Organization, were termed a ''development round'' meant to help lift the world's poor nations out of poverty by giving their farmers better access to developed world markets. But rich countries have not met these promises, advocacy groups like Oxfam International say. 
 Oxfam called Mr. Portman's offer ''smoke and mirrors.'' The group said that under the proposal, the United States would have to shave agricultural spending by only 2 percent, to $73.1 billion, while wringing harsh concessions on market access from developing countries.
 ''This proposal doesn't ask much of the United States while asking a lot of other countries,'' said Gawain Kripke, a policy adviser with Oxfam.
 But Bob Stallman, president of the American Farm Bureau Federation, disagreed, calling the Portman plan ''an aggressive proposal'' that would reduce the amount the United States government could spend under World Trade Organization agreements in one subsidy category to $14.4 billion from $19.1 billion. Mr. Stallman also praised the proposal's call to reduce European Union spending on agriculture from a maximum of four times what the United States spends to only twice as much.
 Mr. Portman's proposal also asks the European Union to lower that category of trade-distorting subsidies by 83 percent, from $80 billion to $15 billion. Europe has agreed to end export subsidies but the bloc's members still have high tariffs on farm imports and domestic subsidies worth about $60 billion each year.
 United States trade negotiators have been under pressure for months to detail President Bush's pledge to severely cut agricultural subsidies, which officially total $19 billion but are much higher when import restrictions for sugar producers and other indirect aid are counted. 
 The Bush administration is rushing to avoid another failure in the deadlocked Doha trade talks, which are scheduled to conclude in a framework agreement at a December meeting of trade ministers in Hong Kong. A much-anticipated round of talks in Cancun, Mexico, in 2003 collapsed over disagreement on agricultural subsidies.
 ''Negotiators need to make a tremendous amount of progress in the next month or we are entering Hong Kong with the smell of failure all around -- again,'' said Ken Cook, president of Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit research policy group in Washington opposed to some farm subsidies.
 The agriculture programs of the United States have come under fire in recent years, notably its cotton program, parts of which were ruled illegal by the World Trade Organization after Brazil filed a complaint. Brazil has also been mulling a challenge on soybeans and Uruguay has discussed filing a complaint on rice.
 ''We must use the W.T.O. to force open markets for U.S. products,'' Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns said in a speech last Thursday. ''If we timidly take our seat at the world trade table with a farm program structure that is wed to the past, we can expect a future of playing defense to protect our share of trade and wondering which U.S. farm program will be challenged next.''
 But securing further commitments from the European Union's executive arm -- which has already angered some European governments for promising last year to phase out export subsidies completely -- could be much tougher, trade experts said. By moving now, the United States has ''upped the ante,'' said Jean-Pierre Lehmann, a professor of international economics at the Swiss business school I.M.D. ''But Mandelson is not in a position to match that ante.''
 Mr. Mandelson acknowledged that some European governments in the 25-member union were ''concerned about imbalances'' but said that the new American proposals could help assuage those fears by showing that Washington is also making concessions.
 In a sign of the resistance he faces within his own bloc, a letter signed by 13 European trade ministers was sent last week to the European Union agriculture commissioner, Mariann Fischer Boel, outlining concerns that concessions by Brussels have not been matched by the United States.
 Some farm groups, such as the American Corn Growers Association, which does not receive money from multinational grain or meat producers that stand to benefit from increased market access, said that the proposal still did not address structural issues with the subsidy programs that lead farmers to overproduce.
 ''We need to rethink U.S. agricultural policy and move back to a price-support system rather than cash subsidies,'' said Larry Mitchell, the corn association's chief executive. Last year, he noted, farmers produced 11.8 billion bushels of corn, a record, but still exported only 2 billion bushels, a number that has remained steady since about the mid-1970's. The excess corn helped depress prices, which dropped to $1.80 a bushel this April from almost $3 a bushel in April 2004.
 Even if Mr. Portman can wring more support from Europe for his proposal, Congress will ultimately decide the scope of agriculture spending through the 2007 farm bill. Lawmakers are concerned about the impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on farmers, who have been hard hit by soaring fuel costs and higher barge rates for moving their crops through the Mississippi River.
 ''U.S. agriculture will not disarm unilaterally,'' said Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, the Republican chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, in a statement Monday. ''If other countries do not harmonize their levels of domestic support and provide meaningful and tangible market access, then the Senate and House will find it very difficult to support the final agreement.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Agriculture groups say that corn farms, like this one in Nebraska, would be hard hit by subsidy reductions. (Photo by Nati Harnik/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 Rob Portman, the United States trade representative, wants to broaden farmers' market access. (Photo by Ilan Garzone/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (93%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DROUGHT (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (66%) Agriculture; Crop Controls and Subsidies; International Trade and World Market; Soybeans; Grain; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Agriculture; Protectionism (Trade); International Trade and World Market; Customs (Tariff)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%) European Union

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (89%); PETER MANDELSON (72%) Alexei Barrionuevo; Tom Wright; Peter Mandelson

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); QATAR (91%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (75%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



230 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Being Happy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''A New Measure of Well-Being From a Happy Little Kingdom'' (Oct. 4): The king of Bhutan may be on to something when he argues that money should not be the alpha and omega of well-being. 
 But his kingdom has a long way to go when measured against a United Nations report on living standards that would seem to fit his quest for a better gauge of happiness. For years, the agency has published rankings of countries not based on gross domestic product, but on more sensible criteria like public health, longevity, education and income disparity.
The latest (hdr.undp.org) ranks 177 countries. Norway is at the top, followed by Iceland, Australia, Luxembourg and Canada. The United States is 10th. Bhutan? It's 134th. Perhaps the king should take another look at how happy his subjects really are.

Leo Rennert
Bethesda, Md.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVING STANDARDS (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) United Nations

PERSON: Leo Rennert

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (66%) BHUTAN (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); CANADA (77%); ICELAND (51%) Bhutan

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



231 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; SOCCER REPORT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Lalas Stands Firm On Bradley's Firing

BYLINE: By JACK BELL

 BODY:
Alexi Lalas is in no mood to ask for absolution after dismissing Bob Bradley as coach of the MetroStars last week.
 ''I'm not going to apologize for setting a high standard,'' said Lalas, the team's president and general manager since June. ''The results were not satisfactory.''
Bradley's assistant, Mo Johnston, took over with three games left in Major League Soccer's regular season. The MetroStars still have a pulse after Saturday's 2-1 victory at D.C. United. In that game, Johnston changed tactics, playing with only three defenders. He has also loosened the reins in practice. 
 The MetroStars are in a precarious position, tied with Kansas City (44 points) for the final playoff berth in the Eastern Conference with a game to play. A Wizards victory Saturday at FC Dallas would most likely eliminate the MetroStars, but Kansas City has not won in its last eight games. The teams are tied on the first tie breaker, head-to-head play, but the Wizards have the advantage in the second tie breaker, goal differential, at plus-8 to the MetroStars' plus-2. The MetroStars play Sunday at Chivas USA. Whoever makes the playoffs will play New England in the first round.
 Although the timing of Bradley's dismissal has been questioned, Lalas rejected the notion that Bradley's three-year tenure (he had a 31-31-27 regular-season record and was 0-3-1 in the playoffs) was over the day Lalas started.
 ''People think I came in here with a clear-cut agenda; that is not the case at all,'' Lalas said. ''I would have liked nothing more than for Bob Bradley to lead the team to the playoffs. But that is not the way I saw things going. 
 ''It is not necessarily losing, but how you lose. A few weeks ago, we had a bad result against a rival when we needed to make major points at home in front of a big crowd.''
 Lalas was referring to a 4-1 loss to D.C. United on Oct. 1 before 27,670 at Giants Stadium. It was the team's largest crowd for a non-doubleheader this season.
 In addition, the two had divergent styles: Bradley is a fastidious and serious man, the kind of guy you might want as a next-door neighbor; Lalas admits to a ''California guru-style'' that can often lead people to not take him seriously. But he is honest, transparent and confident in an Admiral Farragut kind of way. 

NO. 9 -- Bradley was the eighth coach in the 10-year history of a MetroStars club that has never played for a championship, has had a transient roster and has a presence that has bordered on irrelevance in the New York metropolitan area. Who's the next coach? The former San Jose coach Frank Yallop, who now runs Canada's struggling national team, is believed to be at the top, or near the top, of Lalas's list. ''He's making some money,'' Lalas said. ''But I challenge him to get off his butt and get back into the thick of things. He's too good a coach to be working only a few days a week. He's a quality coach and a quality candidate for the MetroStars. I'm going to get the best person, a man or a woman.'' A woman? ''There are some out there,'' Lalas said. ''I'm not going to name names. I also wouldn't rule out our current coach.''

UNDER A MICROSCOPE? -- ''I'm so sick of this perception that the pressure to be a MetroStars player and coach is so immense,'' Lalas said. ''If this is pressure, my God. This is an easy gig. Go talk to the Yankees about real pressure. We'd love to be in that position of exposure and critical analysis.''

WORLD CUP
Eight Spots Remain
 Twenty-four of the 32 spots for the World Cup have been settled, and several more participants will be determined tomorrow.
 Yesterday was a national holiday in the West African nation Togo after the national team defeated Congo on Saturday to qualify for next year's tournament in Germany. Togo, a nation of about six million people that is roughly the size of West Virginia, will be making its first trip to the World Cup. Three other African countries -- Angola, Ivory Coast and Ghana -- will also be going to the Cup for the first time, while some perennial powers -- Cameroon, Nigeria and South Africa -- will not.

SOUTH AMERICA -- Uruguay, Colombia and Chile are fighting for fifth place and a spot in a next month's home-and-away playoff against Australia. Uruguay will reach the playoff with a victory tomorrow against Argentina in Montevideo. Chile plays host to Ecuador and Colombia plays in Paraguay. Argentina, Ecuador and Paraguay have qualified.

CONCACAF -- Trinidad and Tobago leads Guatemala by 2 points and will advance to a playoff if it can defeat Mexico in Port of Spain. Guatemala plays host to Costa Rica. If Guatemala (minus-4) and Trinidad and Tobago (minus-6) finish tied on points, goal differential will break the deadlock because they split their two games (head-to-head play is the first tie breaker).

ASIA -- Trinidad and Tobago or Guatemala will advance to a home-and-away playoff against Uzbekistan or Bahrain. Their series in Asia has been controversial, especially after Bahrain left Tashkent with a 1-1 tie Saturday. The return match is tomorrow in Manama. Last month, Uzbekistan's 1-0 victory was nullified by FIFA, the sport's world governing body, because of an error by the referee Toshimitsu Yoshida of Japan. The Uzbeks, who are coached by Bobby Houghton of England, were leading when they were awarded a penalty kick, which was converted. But Yoshida ruled that a Uzbek player had encroached into the penalty area, but instead of ordering the kick to be retaken, he gave Bahrain a free kick. After the game, Uzbekistan asked FIFA to overrule Yoshida and award it a 3-0 victory ahead of the return match. Instead, the game was vacated.

EUROPE -- Four teams -- France, Switzerland, Ireland and Israel -- are still alive in Group 4. Ten of the 11 games among the four have ended in ties. The Swiss will win the group with a victory in Dublin unless France can defeat Cyprus by a large margin. Israel has completed play. The group winner will qualify; the second-place team will be in a playoff.

Corner Kicks

UNEMPLOYED -- Bora Milutinovic, who has taken five nations to the World Cup and coached numerous club teams, including the MetroStars, was dismissed over the weekend by Al Sadd of Qatar. The club was ousted last month in the quarterfinals of the Asian Champions League.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SOCCER (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%) 

ORGANIZATION: Metrostars

PERSON: Jack Bell; Alexi Lalas; Bob Bradley

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (87%) MISSOURI, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); NORTHEAST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005



232 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1799 words

HEADLINE: The Contemporary Dining Scene, Est. 1985

BYLINE: By Frank Bruni

 BODY:
IN October 1985, a relatively inexperienced, wildly optimistic 27-year-old restaurateur took a deep breath and opened an unusual restaurant in a Manhattan neighborhood not then associated with fine dining.
 The neighborhood wasn't the only wild card. This restaurateur had decided to wed serious food to mirthful, big-hearted service, to make diners feel that in going out they were coming home. He had also decided to jettison ethnic boundaries, emphasizing Italian but inviting French and even Asian into the mix.
There was no shortage of people telling him these were interesting ideas -- and foolhardy, ruinous ones. 
 He disagreed. 
 ''There was a big, fat, wide-open bull's-eye for someone to say, 'Whoever wrote the rules that food tastes better because it's more expensive, more formal, and served with more pretense is wrong,''' the restaurateur, Danny Meyer, said recently.
 Mr. Meyer made that statement with the Union Square Cafe, which for two decades has maintained an arguably nonpareil popularity in this city. It is often cited in surveys and small talk as many New Yorkers' favorite restaurant. It begat its closest rival for unflagging popular affection, the Gramercy Tavern, along with the rest of Mr. Meyer's formidable restaurant empire.
 But Union Square was more than the building block for Mr. Meyer's success. Its opening belonged to an important chapter in the story of fine dining in New York City, and its 20th anniversary is also the anniversary of a period in this city's restaurant business, with 1985 at its center, when a great many assumptions were questioned, corners turned, and careers made.
 It can be argued that fine dining finally lost its haughty attitude then, that cloches became less important than customer comment cards. A fascination with classic French cooking was forevermore trumped by an insistence on something lighter, more flexible and less hidebound. The trickle of a simpler sensibility from California became a tide. The glories of the Greenmarket took ineradicable root.
 ''It was a pivotal year in the sense that what has now become the model of the contemporary American restaurant began then,'' said Alfred Portale, the chef and an owner of the Gotham Bar and Grill, referring to 1985. That was also when Mr. Portale took over the kitchen at Gotham, which had opened the previous year, and drew attention and acclaim for the playfulness he brought to upper-echelon food, for the bright colors and the vertical stretch of his compositions.
 About the same time, a graduate of hotel and restaurant management school named Drew Nieporent and an emerging chef named David Bouley began their own experiment. Their goal was to recast the first-rate, fussy, uptown French restaurant as an affordable, approachable refuge with a downtown address, wines from California as well as France, and prices within reach of people who were not rich.
 ''We had a $16 prix fixe,'' Mr. Nieporent recalled. ''It was a sensibility, a mentality: no barriers. The menu wasn't in French. There was no dress code. As long as the feet and genitals were covered, it was cool.''
 Like Union Square and Gotham, the restaurant he was describing, Montrachet, is still open. 
 In terms of the paths that Mr. Nieporent and Mr. Bouley took, Montrachet was the genesis of the TriBeCa Grill, Layla, Nobu and now Nobu 57. Of Bouley and Danube.
 In terms of the talent that passed through the Montrachet kitchen, the restaurant was a cradle for the chefs David Burke, Terrence Brennan and Rocco DiSpirito, among others. Gotham was a cradle for Tom Valenti, Bill Telepan and Gary Robins.
 There aren't six degrees of separation between the cluster of restaurants that dawned or came of age around 1985 and the most prominent restaurants and culinary figures in New York today. There's barely half a degree.
 The critical mass of talent in New York in the mid-1980's pushed ideas forward and encouraged risk-taking because, Jean-Georges Vongerichten said, ''Everybody at the time was watching each other and trying to make their mark.''
 Mr. Vongerichten, who is French, came to the United States for the first time in the summer of 1985, settling briefly in Boston. He monitored the early days of Montrachet, ate there in its infancy, and was encouraged by its departure from the established French idiom.
 The next year, he started as chef de cuisine at a new Manhattan restaurant, Lafayette, under the guidance of the French chef Louis Outhier, known in part for incorporating flavors from Asia -- Thailand in particular -- into French cooking.
 Mr. Vongerichten, of course, would go on to do his mentor one better, to draw on his own extensive travels in Asia and to integrate more thoroughly that continent's seasonings and traditions into haute Western kitchens. In time there would be not only Jo Jo and Jean Georges but Vong and Spice Market, and Mr. Vongerichten would enjoy a success at the high end of New York dining that only a handful of chefs and restaurateurs, Mr. Meyer among them, could match.
 On a recent night I paid a fresh visit to the Union Square Cafe, where a hostess greeted a companion and me in a chirpy, ebullient manner. A waiter broached the question of sparkling, still or tap by asking, ''How do you feel about water?'' And the wine director -- Union Square has never used the word sommelier -- weaved a mini-narrative, laced with humor, about the producer of a red wine from Tuscany that we ordered. Nothing about this struck me as atypical, unappealing or off-key.
 But before 1985, in restaurants as serious about their food and wine as Union Square, the accepted tone of service was much more formal. The break with that, at Union Square and other renegade restaurants, was perhaps the biggest sea change of the mid-1980's.
 Mr. Meyer said his inspiration and motivation were the trattorias of Italy, in which the servers who welcomed and tended to diners were as often the owner's kin as disconnected professionals.
 ''Danny felt he could teach anybody the technical skills,'' said Paul Bolles-Beaven, who waited tables in the beginning and is now a partner in Union Square. ''He wanted to hire people with emotional skills.''
 He had them dress in Brooks Brothers button-downs with colorful vertical stripes (blue, red or green) and no ties. He wanted his servers to be able to answer wine questions, so he had them taste the wines. And he wanted them to treat customers in a more generous, expansive way.
 ''Occasionally, I would have people say, 'Come off it, you don't have to be so nice,''' Mr. Bolles-Beaven said. The suspicious behavior that prompted such skepticism? Subtracting the cost of a main course that a diner didn't like from the bill, or trying to find diners a table if they walked in without a reservation.
 On my recent visit I ate one of Union Square's enduring signature dishes, a gargantuan hunk of grilled tuna, nearly raw in the center, that had been marinated in soy and ginger, among other ingredients. Again, there was nothing surprising about this.
 But in New York before the mid-1980's, such a simple, clean preparation of fish was not the manner of most ambitious restaurants. Nor were Asian accents on a menu that also had pasta and risotto.
 Union Square was a mirror for many new ways of thinking, and these were reflected as well in such restaurants as Jams, which brought the chef Jonathan Waxman from California to New York in 1984, and An American Place, where the chef Larry Forgione combined French technique with American ingredients and recipes. It opened in late 1983, after Mr. Forgione ceded the helm of the River Cafe to Charlie Palmer.
 In the mid-1980's, the combined influences of nouvelle cuisine and California cuisine translated into dishes with less sheer volume and slosh and more bright colors and seasonal produce. It translated into a heightened obsession with the freshness and sourcing of ingredients -- Union Square was beside a greenmarket that became an increasingly trafficked stop for the city's chefs -- and gave currency to the philosophy that sometimes the best way to treat a great ingredient is to leave it be.
 ''Everybody was turning away from what was known and traditional and accepted,'' said Mr. Palmer, who ran the kitchen at the River Cafe from 1983 to 1987, when he left to open Aureole.
 ''One of the major things we were doing was bringing in all kinds of products that didn't exist before, that you hadn't seen before, like wild boar from the West,'' he said, referring to his time at the River Cafe.
 ''I was using ramps,'' he added, noting that most diners had no idea what those were.
 Over at Montrachet, Mr. Bouley would put a pasta dish next to a French staple on a menu that pointed the way toward the polyglot approach prevalent today.
 Bryan Miller, then the restaurant critic for The New York Times, remembered that before 1985, when he organized his reviews into bound dining guides: ''It was very easy to index: French, Italian, Greek. Back then I had a little section called Eclectic, with like 12 places.
 ''Now, everything's eclectic.''
 Just as the mid-1980's erased dividing lines between established cuisines, they admitted less established cuisines into the club of what was considered noteworthy, stylish, upscale. One of most significant openings of 1985 and one of the hottest restaurants for the next half decade was Arizona 206, which lent cachet to Southwestern cooking, putting it on the map.
 Arizona 206 also underscored the desire to define and showcase distinctly American food and a distinctly American sensibility, a desire evident as well in the approaches of Mr. Forgione and Mr. Palmer. Mr. Palmer said he envisioned Aureole as ''an American Lutece.''
 Although the booming economy of the mid-1980's was a reason so many restaurateurs could take so many chances, Union Square, Montrachet, Arizona 206 and even Gotham lowered the price of a big restaurant night out, charging less than did the ''the Le/La restaurants,'' as Mr. Nieporent called them.
 He and other restaurateurs, all interviewed by telephone, said they were rebelling against the excesses of the early 1980's, issuing a populist retort to the extravagances and the velvet-rope ethic of the era.
 It's not only in their recollections, but also in the restaurant scene today, that the significance of that juncture is clear.
 Would Bobby Flay have had his remarkable success if Arizona 206 hadn't exalted the flavors of the Southwest?
 Doesn't Babbo's slightly freewheeling feel, with solo diners at the bar and people vying for first-come-first-served tables up front, owe a debt to Union Square? Isn't the Red Cat also the heir of Union Square?
 ''It was definitely seminal in so many ways, that restaurant,'' Mr. Miller said. ''That was quite a year.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: THEY SAW THE FUTURE -- Five who helped shape dining in new york: from left, Jean-Georges Vongerichten, Alfred Portale, David Bouley, Drew Nieporent, Danny Meyer. (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. F1)
ROLLING STONES -- Danny Meyer and Drew Nieporent, above left, in 1987
David Bouley at Montrachet in 1985
 and Alfred Portale in 1985. Twenty years later, at top from left: Jean-Georges Vongerichten, Mr. Bouley, Mr. Meyer, Mr. Nieporent and Mr. Portale. (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. F4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (87%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%) Restaurants

ORGANIZATION: Union Square Cafe (NYC Restaurant)

PERSON: Frank Bruni; Danny Meyer; Jean-Georges Vongerichten; Alfred Portale; David Bouley; Drew Nieporent

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



233 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; THE POUR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: All in the Family, Again

BYLINE: By Eric Asimov

 BODY:
IF it wasn't exactly Greek tragedy, it was at least the stuff of soap operas, and Michael Mondavi was there at the beginning.
 He was at the side of his father, Robert Mondavi, when the senior Mondavi founded his winery in 1966. This proud moment came in the wake of a bitter feud between Robert Mondavi on one side, and his brother, Peter, and their mother, Rosa, on the other, over the future of Charles Krug, the winery they owned together. The battle went on for years in the courts.
Michael Mondavi stayed at the winery for 38 years, during which time Robert Mondavi established itself as a great Napa Valley winery, then grew into a California powerhouse with winemaking interests all over the state, and finally into a publicly traded corporation with global reach. But family strife took its toll on the Robert Mondavi winery, too, which was especially telling considering how it sanctified the importance of ''family'' in marketing its wines. Over the years, Michael served as winemaker, then co-chairman with his brother, Tim, and, eventually, chief executive, only to lose family control of the company, which was sold last fall to Constellation Brands. Along the way the father publicly criticized the sons, and the brothers themselves clashed repeatedly over the company's direction. 
 Now Michael Mondavi is 62 years old and, for the first time, not working with his father. He has learned some lessons, he says, and is not about to make the same mistakes again. So what next?
 Michael Mondavi has gone into business with his family. With his wife, Isabel, and his children, Rob and Dina, he has formed Folio Fine Wine Partners, which he hopes will make its mark as an importer, a producer and a consultant to small family-owned wineries. 
 Not that he's a glutton for punishment. Mr. Mondavi said that before they took the plunge, he and his family sat down and made sure they were in accord on their objectives and strategies. And he said he had found a role model in the Frescobaldi family, which has maintained an Italian wine dynasty for centuries and with whom the Robert Mondavi Corporation had worked closely.
 ''We were so taken over by the business that it invaded our family,'' Mr. Mondavi recalled. ''Had we stepped back and asked, as the Frescobaldis do, is this good for the family? If it is going to hurt the family we're not going to do it.'' 
 ''The good news is we're learning about that and hope we'll make different mistakes in the future,'' he said. ''The sad news is that we, the Mondavi family, didn't learn that 20 years ago.''
 Folio began its life late last year with a roster of Italian wines to import, wines that Michael Mondavi had originally brought to the Mondavi Corporation. They include the prestigious Ornellaia and Masseto labels, the entire Frescobaldi portfolio of Tuscan wines, and those of three other producers, Luce, Danzante and Attems. 
 Folio is also producing wines under a half-dozen different names under the supervision of Rob Mondavi. These include dry, tangy pinot grigios and zinfandels under the Bocce label, which sell for about $10; likeable pinot noirs and chardonnays under the Hangtime label for about $15; and a surprisingly dense, rich Napa Valley cabernet sauvignon for $20 under the Oberon label.
 In addition, Isabel Mondavi supervises production of a pleasant rose called I'M, while Rob Mondavi, with his wife, Lydia, and another couple, Paul and Patti Hoffman, make a juicy petite sirah called Spellbound, and a handful of single-vineyard zinfandels called Medusa. If the wines share a trait, it is that they are not only charmingly modest, but modest in alcohol for California, clocking in largely at 13 to 14 percent in an era when many Napa wines are hard-pressed to stay below 15 percent.
 If Robert Mondavi's goal back in the 1970's was to demonstrate that Napa Valley wines could stand with the best wines in the world, Michael Mondavi is taking his cue from his grandmother Rosa, who he said just wanted wines that tasted good, the proverbial simple but honest wines. 
 ''These are wines for people who like food,'' Mr. Mondavi said, offering a sentiment that if not exactly original, is still in sharp contrast to the prevailing Napa ideal of concentrated, powerful world beaters. 
 Not that Mr. Mondavi is unambitious. He had wanted to make his own fine wine, too, from grapes grown in a 20-acre vineyard he owns on Atlas Peak on the east side of the valley. But he was concerned about the prospects for a startup winery at a time when industry consolidation has made it more difficult for small independent winemakers to get their bottles into retail shops and onto restaurant wine lists.
 ''The gatekeepers -- the restaurateurs and the retailers -- they have so many people coming to them selling wines that they're being driven crazy,'' Mr. Mondavi said. And so came his plan for the consulting end of Folio.
 The idea was to act as an agency for small family wineries, representing their interests to the wholesale distributors who place brands in the retail world. The aim, as Mr. Mondavi puts it, is to increase the ''share of mind'' that distributors, who might handle 2,000 brands, give the little guys.
 But Mr. Mondavi didn't want to stop at marketing. He wanted to use his background in viticulture and winemaking as well. And then there were all the unlovely tasks that burden the wine business, which, though romanticized as the epitome of the good life -- Robert Mondavi had a little something to do with that -- have more in common with an auto-parts concern than with strolling the vineyards in the late-afternoon sun. 
 ''Our thought was, let's not just be in the marketing and selling of wines,'' he said. ''Let's consult with them on viticulture, enology, human resources, purchasing health insurance, buying diesel fuel, or labels. If the small grower can gain some of these economies of scale and can lower their costs, then they will be able to offer better value.''
 This one-stop shopping approach has not yet taken off, but Mr. Mondavi believes it will over time. ''It's really the great wines of Frescobaldi and Ornellaia and Masseto that give us the stature to set up as a fledgling company in California,'' he said.
 Looking back at the Robert Mondavi denouement, Michael Mondavi has one regret that, surprisingly, has little to do with family relationships. After the company went public in 1993, he said, he did not do a good job of encouraging employees to participate in the company's stock-purchasing plan. ''When the company was sold,'' he said, ''the family did very well, a number of the senior executives did very well, but a lot of people who were really dedicated to Robert Mondavi didn't benefit.'' 
 This time, at Folio, Mr. Mondavi has divided 12 percent of the company among the 27 nonfamily employees, and says that 12 percent figure will probably double over the years. ''I wanted to make sure we shared everything in a transparent way,'' he said.
 Mr. Mondavi may have the hard-won knowledge that is born of regrets, but his son, Rob, 34, says he has no qualms about a family business, regardless of the Mondavi history. Rather than the competitive spirit that boiled over in the relationships of Robert, Michael and Tim Mondavi, there is understanding and encouragement, Rob says.
 ''It's been incredibly liberating for our family to run a business as it should be run and not have to worry about the politics of the recent past,'' he said. 
 Michael Mondavi says his father, now 93, thinks Folio is exciting, though he does shake his head about starting over again. And he says there is good news regarding Tim and their sister, Marcia Mondavi Boger, who was also a major shareholder in the company.
 ''We -- my brother and sister and I -- had been business partners and not brothers and sisters,'' he said. ''We agreed that we should be brothers and sisters and not business partners.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ON HIS OWN -- Michael Mondavi now works with his daughter, Dina. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 LIFE LESSONS -- Michael Mondavi with wines sold by his company, Folio Fine Wine Partners. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WINERIES (90%); FAMILY (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (60%); EXECUTIVES (52%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines

COMPANY: ROBERT MONDAVI CORP (94%); CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (55%); TUCKER SEABROOK (AUST) PTY LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Folio Fine Wine Partners

TICKER: STZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (94%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (94%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (55%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (55%); NAICS424820 WINE & DISTILLED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); SIC5182 WINE & DISTILLED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (53%)

PERSON: Eric Asimov; Michael Mondavi

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) California

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



234 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; THE CHEF: PIERRE REBOUL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: Would Any Other Frenchman Do This to a Grape?

BYLINE: By MELISSA CLARK

 BODY:
THAT you can take the pastry chef out of La Roquebrussanne but can't take La Roquebrussanne out of the pastry chef is evident in the way Pierre Reboul approaches his Concord grape ice cream soda. 
 To a native New Yorker this fizzy violet-colored beverage seems steeped in the spirit of the Lower East Side. But for Mr. Reboul, who works at Thor, a new restaurant on Rivington Street, the dessert is all about La Roquebrussanne, his hometown in Provence (population, 1,691; egg-cream or kosher-wine mongers, 0).
Although he had never met a Concord grape before arriving in New York 10 years ago (indigenous to North America, Concords are rare in France), his first bite, at the farmers' market in Union Square, was Proustian. The floral, intensely perfumed grape ''tasted fake, like the grape soda you drank as a kid,'' he said, adding, ''I always thought it was silly, making a flavor taste so artificial, until I ate a Concord grape and realized, Wow! That's how it tastes.'' 
 He reminisced as we stood in the kitchen at Thor, hunched over the counter, squeezing Concord grapes out of their dusky purple skins and watching their squishy insides plop, pale green, into a ramekin. Then we fished out the seeds slowly, one by one. It takes a pound of the fruit to yield a half-cup, and each grape was a labor of love. There was a lot of time to talk.
 ''In La Roquebrussanne there were no supermarkets,'' Mr. Reboul said. ''You had to grow things, so my grandmother's brother had a huge botanical garden. He grew muscat grapes, and my grandmother used to feed them to me. Whenever I see grapes I think about her -- how she'd peel every single one and use a hairpin to take out the seeds.'' 
 Fingers stained magenta, Mr. Reboul spooned most of the grapes over almond clafoutis batter he had made earlier and put it in the oven; it would emerge dense and buttery with a browned, chewy crust. 
 As for the other grapes, Mr. Reboul reserved them as a topping for homemade yogurt with pumpkinseed crumble, a simple dish if you aren't a perfectionist pastry chef. Mr. Reboul makes his own yogurt from organic whole milk and cream, but admits, when pressed, that one can substitute store-bought. He spoons the grapes over the yogurt, places crumble alongside and sets a teaspoon of honey on the rim. 
 ''My grandmother used to gather honey from remote places in the country,'' he said. ''We ate it like this: Keep the honey in the spoon so it's not completely mixed into the yogurt, and lick off a little as you go. Each bite is different, sometimes more sweet, sometimes more sour.''
 Indeed, by turns sweet, tart, milky, crunchy from the pumpkinseeds and juicy from the grapes, it was like the richest granola you've ever wanted for breakfast.
 Partly licked honey spoon still in hand, he peered into a colander that would rival a European economy car in size. In it, over an apron that had once been sparkling white, was a jammy, purple sludge, the solid must of grape juice he had poured in a few hours before for ice cream soda. In the bowl underneath was the clear pinkish juice.
 The soda is easy with the right equipment: a food mill for pressing the grapes (no peeling or pitting in this case) and a soda siphon to give the juice a bubbly fizz. Mr. Reboul changed the cartridge on the siphon and poured in the juice. Carefully he lifted a glass filled with scoops of ginger ice cream and squeezed the siphon's handle. A foamy grape-colored shower erupted all over his chef's jacket and the counter.
 Undeterred but slightly sticky, we tried again, then stirred the soda and let the ice cream melt a little before sucking it up through a straw. It was syrupy and spicy from grapes and ginger. Maybe it was the location, or maybe the approach of the Jewish holy days, but it tasted just like a Manischewitz with a spritz, I told Mr. Reboul.
 He shrugged uncomprehendingly. ''What's Manischewitz?'' 
 Once enlightened, he nodded, understanding in a flash that two people sipping the same soda can be transported as far apart as, in our case, La Roquebrussanne and Brooklyn, and end up in the very same place: home.

This is the third of four articles about chefs who focus on fruits and vegetables.

Yogurt With Concord Grapes and Pumpkinseed Crumble
Adapted from Pierre Reboul, Thor
Time: About an hour

1/4 cup packed light brown sugar
6 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/3 cup pumpkinseeds
1/3 cup almond flour or ground almonds
Pinch kosher salt
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into medium pieces
1/3 pound Concord grapes, stemmed and rinsed
3 cups plain whole-milk Greek yogurt
4 teaspoons honey.

1. To make crumble, heat oven to 200 degrees. Spread brown sugar evenly on a baking sheet, and bake until it dehydrates and looks crunchy, about 15 minutes. Remove from oven, and let cool.
2. Raise oven temperature to 375 degrees. In a bowl mix all-purpose flour, pumpkinseeds, almond flour, brown sugar and salt. Add butter, and, using a pastry cutter or your fingers, combine butter with dry ingredients until mixture comes together in large crumbs. Spread evenly on baking sheet, and bake until golden, 10 to 15 minutes. Let cool.
3. Gently squeeze grapes into a bowl, slipping off skin. Using a skewer or a toothpick, puncture each grape, then push seeds out and discard them.
4. Divide yogurt and grapes among 4 serving bowls and top each with crumble. Fill 4 teaspoons with honey; rest a spoon in each bowl, and serve.

Yield: 4 servings.

Concord Grape Ice Cream Soda
Adapted from Pierre Reboul, Thor
Time: 20 minutes, plus 2 hours' draining

2 pounds Concord grapes, stemmed and rinsed
Pinch of ascorbic acid (vitamin C powder), optional
1 pint ginger or vanilla ice cream.

1. Pass grapes through a food mill fitted with a medium disk until most of the juice has been extracted. Line a strainer or a colander with a clean dishcloth that you don't mind staining purple, and set it over a large bowl. Pour in grape juice, and let drain 2 hours; you should have about 2 cups liquid. If not using immediately, stir in ascorbic acid to preserve color.
2. To make soda, pour grape juice into a seltzer siphon fitted with a cartridge, according to manufacturer's directions.
3. To serve, scoop ice cream into 6 glasses. Holding a glass directly under seltzer siphon nozzle, carefully and slowly squirt grape soda over ice cream. Serve with a straw and a spoon.

Yield: 6 servings.

Note: Seltzer siphons are sold at kitchen specialty shops like Broadway Panhandler for $50 or so, plus cartridges.

Concord Grape Clafoutis
Adapted from Pierre Reboul, Thor
Time: 1 hour 45 minutes, plus cooling

8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, softened
1 pound Concord grapes, stemmed and rinsed
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar, plus 1 tablespoon
1 3/4 cups almond flour or finely ground almonds
2 tablespoons cookie crumbs
Pinch salt
2 eggs
1/4 cup heavy cream.

1. Heat oven to 350 degrees. Grease a 9-inch cake pan with 1 tablespoon butter. Gently squeeze each grape into a bowl, slipping off skin. Using skewer or toothpick, puncture each grape and push out the seeds and discard them.
2. In an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, cream remaining butter. Add 1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar, and beat until incorporated. Beat in almond flour, cookie crumbs and salt.
3. In a small bowl, whisk together eggsand cream. With mixer set on medium speed, gradually add egg mixture to butter mixture, beating until just smooth.
4. Transfer batter to prepared cake pan. Spoon grapes and any accumulated juices over batter. Sift remaining tablespoon of confectioners' sugar over cake. Bake until golden and firm in center, 45 to 50 minutes. Let cool before serving.

Yield: 6 servings.


GRAPHIC: Photos: CONCORD, YOU BEAUTY -- Pierre Reboul's yogurt with peeled Concord grapes and pumpkinseed crumble, above. Below, the chef puts the fizz into his grape ice cream soda. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE CREAM (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (85%); APICULTURE (74%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (72%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (69%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); MILK (64%) Cooking and Cookbooks; Recipes; Grapes

ORGANIZATION: Thor (NYC Restaurant)

PERSON: Melissa Clark; Pierre Reboul

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (57%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



235 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CLASSICAL MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: The Growing Impact of the Levine Era

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
Perhaps sometime soon, music lovers and critics will tire of remarking on the thrilling revitalization James Levine has sparked as the music director of the Boston Symphony Orchestra. But not yet. It's still too momentous a story. Mr. Levine brought the orchestra to Carnegie Hall on Monday night for its first New York concert of the season. The orchestra sounds glorious, and the empowered players, who had grown demoralized under the long tenure of Seiji Ozawa, exude confidence and command. 
 The fascinating all-American 20th-century program opened with Ives's well-known ''Three Places in New England.'' But the luminous and wondrously strange performance made this cutting-edge score seem new. Mr. Levine was less concerned with evoking the imagery that inspired each movement than with enticing the audience to hear Ives as a major modernist -- an American eccentric, yes, but a savvy craftsman and a visionary composer. In the opening piece, ''The 'St. Gaudens' in Boston Common,'' those thick, hazy, string chords shimmered with pungent polytonal dissonance and mystical allure. Ives seemed an American Berg. The string tone was so plush you wanted to wrap yourself in it. The ''Putnam's Camp'' movement, with its din of brass bands, and ''The Housatonic at Stockbridge,'' with its multilayered harmonies and haunted evocations of church music in the distance, were also a revelation.
One revelation per concert is more than enough, but then came another: Lukas Foss's ''Time Cycle'' with the soprano Dawn Upshaw as soloist. In this 1960 score, a setting of four texts by Auden, Housman, Kafka and Nietzsche that explore themes of time, Mr. Foss masterly balances Neo-Classical elements of clarity and texture with explorations of atonality, techniques he was swept up in at that time. The music is all the more powerful for the impressive economy of Mr. Foss's language. Each word seems to evoke from the orchestra a specific gesture, riff, chord series or melodic fragment. The vocal writing boldly jumps about the soprano's register in anxious moments and lingers quizzically during reflection passages. Ms. Upshaw, whose voice sounded radiant and full, made the vocal writing seem natural, true to the words and keenly dramatic. Mr. Foss, pretty spry at 83, was on hand to take a bow.
 Elliott Carter, who turns 97 in December, may be less spry than Mr. Foss, but he is still composing ingenious works. Mr. Levine conducted the New York premiere of ''Three Illusions'' (2004), short movements (three minutes each) that bustle with invention, instrumental colorings and Mr. Carter's distinctly complex and alluring astringent harmonic language. Something must have gone not quite right in the second piece, for Mr. Levine asked the audience if the orchestra could play it again, and it did, this time getting a big thumb's up from the maestro and a rousing ovation from the audience. 
 The program ended with Gershwin's Piano Concerto in F with the brilliant and stylish pianist Jean-Yves Thibaudet as soloist -- a stunning performance alive with incisive rhythms, Ravelian colorings, telling intricacy and refreshingly cool restraint. In the context of this program, the work emerged not as some jazzy novelty but as a full-fledged modern American piano concerto. That was the idea, and it succeeded. As a programmer Mr. Levine seems to have no shortage of good ideas.


GRAPHIC: Photos: James Levine and the Boston Symphony at Carnegie Hall. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Dawn Upshaw at Carnegie Hall. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%) Music; Reviews

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Boston Symphony Orchestra

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: Anthony Tommasini; James Levine

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



236 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Fed Minutes Show Policy Makers Leaning Toward More Rate Increases

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers grew more concerned about inflation after Hurricane Katrina and said that interest rates would probably have to move higher to restrain prices, according to minutes of the central bank's Sept. 20 meeting released yesterday.
 The policy-making Federal Open Market Committee said ''upside risks to inflation appeared to have increased'' after the storm struck the Gulf Coast on Aug. 29 and expected that ''further rate increases probably would be required.'' The Fed panel voted 9 to 1 last month to raise its main lending rate for the 11th consecutive time, to 3.75 percent, the highest in four years. 
 The report does not suggest any dissatisfaction with the increase by the committee members, other than Mark W. Olson, a Fed governor whose dissent created the first nonunanimous vote in more than two years. Even so, the minutes suggest that the Fed may be laying the groundwork for changing policy language that now says rates may continue to rise at a ''measured'' pace.
 ''Participants' concerns about inflation prospects generally had increased'' since Aug. 9, the minutes said. Leaving the main rate unchanged ''had the potential to mislead the public both about the committee's perceptions of the fundamental strength and resilience of the economy and about its commitment to fostering price stability.''
 The Fed has used the ''measured'' language to telegraph its rate intentions since May 2004. The minutes pointed to a possible shift.
 ''Some sentiment was expressed to consider changes to forward-looking aspects of the statement at upcoming meetings, in part because of the considerable reduction in monetary policy accommodation that had already been accomplished,'' the minutes said.
 Mr. Olson, in his first dissent as a Fed governor, preferred that the Fed ''defer policy action at this meeting, pending the receipt of additional information on the economic effects resulting from the severe shock of Hurricane Katrina,'' according to the minutes.
 In raising the rate on Sept. 20, the policy makers signaled they might do so again, saying the United States economy faced only a ''near term'' setback after Hurricane Katrina. The decision showed that the Fed, in the waning months of Alan Greenspan's term as chairman, is concerned more about potential inflation from energy prices than about slowing economic growth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); WEATHER (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Credit; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



237 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Wanting the Old Main Street Back

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

DATELINE: LAS CRUCES, N.M. 

 BODY:
This city is often cited as one of the most livable in America, and with a warm, dry southern New Mexico climate, it is rapidly becoming a popular destination for retirees. Even though the population has been growing, from 74,000 in 2000 to 80,000 in the most recent census, the central business district has been all but a ghost town for more than three decades. 
 In 1973, an urban renewal plan practically leveled Main Street, as well as many homes in Mesquite, a nearby historic neighborhood.
''They took half the neighborhood and all of downtown,'' said Sylvia Camunez, who is active in community groups, was born in Mesquite and has lived here for the last 20 years. ''It was the heart of the city. There were residences and businesses. It seemed like it happened overnight. People were not made aware of it until it was too late. There were beautiful buildings and people walked downtown. Now it's just a hole in the wall.'' 
 Citizens of Las Cruces have been trying to reverse the ravages of urban renewal for decades with little progress. But this summer, with the passage of a master plan that was years in the making, momentum to revitalize downtown has picked up steam, despite skepticism from some who are understandably nervous about big redevelopment plans, given what happened to the city's downtown more than 30 years ago. 
 In the 1970's, Main Street in Las Cruces was replaced by a pedestrian mall, an urban planning idea popular at the time as a way to shore up downtown districts that were losing business to indoor malls. More than a hundred downtowns across the country closed streets to traffic and installed big planters and sidewalk furniture. The intent was to make downtowns more like suburban shopping districts.
 ''Pedestrian malls really haven't worked well in many cases and most of them have been replaced,'' said Amanda West, assistant director of community revitalization networks for the National Trust Main Street Center, who has written several articles on pedestrian malls. ''The important lesson that communities learned from the wave of pedestrian malls in the 1970's is that you can't have a cookie-cutter approach to revitalization.''
 For Las Cruces, that has been a hard lesson learned. Before the pedestrian mall, a six-block stretch of Main Street was home to approximately 160 businesses, struggling to be sure, but surviving. Within three years of the mall's completion, that number dropped to 90. Today, there are fewer than 10. With the exception of the craft and farmers markets on Wednesday and Saturday mornings, the pedestrian mall is deserted for what now seem like obvious reasons. 
 More than 200 buildings were leveled (leaving fewer than 70 historic structures) and were replaced by cheap construction with no respect for Southwestern architecture, or their sites became parking lots. Six blocks of Main Street were closed to traffic, as well as the cross streets, cutting off two historic residential neighborhoods from downtown and each other. 
 The mall itself was designated a city park, so no bicycles were allowed and restaurants could not serve alcohol at outdoor tables, despite the city's pleasant weather nine months of the year. 
 Even worse, the city built what is derisively referred to by locals as ''the racetrack,'' a one-way street that rings the mall in a large oval shape, encouraging drivers to speed around downtown, behind Main Street's buildings, which face inward toward the mall. 
 ''You do not get an experience of the city by driving around it,'' said Steve Newby, an architect in Las Cruces who has been involved in various plans to revitalize the downtown area for 15 years. 
 So Mr. Newby and a handful of committed citizens decided there was only one solution: rip out the pedestrian mall and restore Main Street. Deciding was the easy part. Making it happen has been the hard part.
 ''Last time I did this,'' Mr. Newby continued, ''I brought in a team of eight experts in 1994, city planners from all over. We came up with a plan in three days, and that's basically the same plan we're working with to this day.''
 Mr. Newby's efforts got a boost when the nonprofit organization Las Cruces Downtown was formed to promote the restoration of Main Street. ''At the request of the previous mayor, I came out of retirement to be the executive director on a volunteer basis for three years,'' Heather Pollard said. ''And we're entering Year 6.''
 The long slog through public hearings, public comment and trolling for funds culminated in August with the adoption of a master plan to restore two-way traffic through Main Street with street parking and landscaping, open up most of the cross streets, create a public plaza, and build approximately 1.5 million square feet of new commercial and residential space on empty parking lots.
 Coupled with plans for a new federal courthouse, city hall and state office building, the downtown will, over the next few years, get a $120 million infusion of mostly state and federal money, with the city's part still in question. 
 ''The monetary constraints mean that we have to do this piecemeal,'' said Brian Harper, downtown development coordinator for the city of Las Cruces. ''We're getting funding sources as we go, but the first phase of the project, the civic plaza, will get under way this January.''
 The civic plaza is to be followed by a mixed-use project on the site where St. Genevieve's, a historic church, once stood. It was torn down in the late 1960's before urban renewal. Phase 3 includes an entertainment complex with a movie theater and a restaurant on the north end, and a residential complex on the south end, all in hopes of spurring more private development in the area between. 
 The plans have attracted attention from an outside developer, UniDev, based in Maryland, which is in preliminary discussions with the city to build the work-force-housing component of the master plan, according to Peter Smirniotopoulos, the vice president for business development at UniDev. 
 And there are some treasured historic buildings left to anchor the master plan. For instance, the Rio Grande Theater, the only remaining two-story adobe theater in the country, according to its current owner, has undergone a years-long renovation and had its grand opening in September. It will feature mostly live performances and the occasional movie screening. 
 But despite recent progress, there are still plenty of skeptics, and even proponents admit that the revitalization plan is far from a sure thing. Turning around 30 years of decline is never easy. 
 ''This is a tough effort,'' said Mike Beckett, who manages Coas, the largest used-book store in New Mexico, which is owned by his family and has been on the Las Cruces pedestrian mall since 1990. ''We've taken time out of our days for a long time to work on this because we want a better place for our city. And what we've learned is that there's no magic bullet.'' 
 Christopher B. Leinberger, a longtime real estate developer who has worked all over the country, consulted on the Las Cruces master plan. He is now a fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, , where he wrote an article entitled, ''Turning Around Downtowns: Twelve Steps to Revitalization.'' 
 ''If they can maintain their civic and political focus over the next five years, they can make it happen,'' Mr. Leinberger said. ''There is a market for it. You have to get it to the point of critical mass and then the market will take over, but you have to have the leadership and you have to start with the intention.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Newby, above, the principal planner for the downtown renovation in Las Cruces, N.M., wants to restore auto traffic to the pedestrian mall that replaced Main Street. Right, the Rio Grande Theater, an adobe building, is being restored as part of the redevelopment. (Photographs by Bruce Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); SUBURBS (70%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



238 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: He Doesn't Make Coffee, but He Controls 'Starbucks' in Russia

BYLINE: By ANDREW KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 11 

 BODY:
Sergei A. Zuykov is a lawyer for Starbucks in Russia. Only the Starbucks he represents brews no coffee and owns no shops. Its business consists of trying to sell its name back to the other Starbucks -- the better-known company from Seattle. 
 A tall, strapping 39-year-old former car alarm salesman turned trademark squatter, Mr. Zuykov has stalled Starbucks' entry into one of the fastest growing retail markets in Europe while competitors, both homegrown and international brands, have been springing up like mushrooms after the rain. 
''It's not fair, but it's legal,'' Mr. Zuykov said of his grip on the Starbucks trademark here. ''I do not steal. You cannot steal what is already yours. When we applied, Starbucks was not so interested in coming to Russia.''
 Starbucks sued and won a lower court ruling in Moscow on Aug. 30. But Mr. Zuykov asked for and received a temporary injunction. A showdown in the long-running case, seen as a test of intellectual property rights here, is coming at an appellate hearing on Oct. 17. 
 Mr. Zuykov, who said he owned roughly 300 brands in addition to Starbucks, is merely the best known of what trademark lawyers say are a dozen or so individuals and companies active in hoarding brand names and patents in Russia. While authorities are clamping down on street vendors selling knockoff Nikes and bootleg DVD's, these legal pirates have thrived. 
 Better enforcement of intellectual property rights is seen as a requirement for Russia's entry in the World Trade Organization later this year or early next year.
 Authorities are indeed trying to clamp down. Last winter police made a show of grinding millions of counterfeit cigarettes under bulldozer tracks into the black mud of a field outside Moscow.
 But that has not prevented intellectual piracy from rising to the higher levels of American-Russian relations. Rob Portman, the United States trade representative, bluntly told a Russian delegation in Washington on Sept. 27 that widespread piracy was a barrier to Russian membership in the W.T.O. 
 Somehow, though, in the through-the-looking-glass world of Russian law, tougher enforcement has actually spawned a new breed of pirate. 
 The improved enforcement over the last five years has also allowed brand squatters to use the courts to take aim at large Western companies that failed to register their trademarks quickly enough, according to Anna A. Baglay, a lawyer with Intels Agency, a Moscow firm specializing in intellectual property rights.
 Mr. Zuykov repeatedly referred to the Russian civil code when asked what gave him the right to a venerable brand with roots in the faraway coffee culture of the Northwest United States. He took pains to emphasize the legality of his chosen profession. And he spoke bluntly about his intentions: to extract as much cash as possible from Starbucks. 
 Starbucks registered its trademark in Russia in 1997, but did not open any coffee shops here. In 2002 Mr. Zuykov filed to cancel the chain's trademark because it had not been used in commerce, and registered it in the name of a Moscow company he represents as a lawyer.
 Sitting in a Moscow coffeehouse of Coffee Bean, a Starbucks rival, Mr. Zuykov sipped a frothy cappuccino and noted his price: for $600,000 he will sell the Starbucks name back to Starbucks.
 Starbucks executives declined to discuss Mr. Zuykov's demands. In a statement, the company said: ''We are aware of the high potential for Starbucks coffeehouses in Russia, but we are still in the exploration stage for this market.'' 
 Trademark lawyers say large corporations are reluctant to pay brand squatters for fear of encouraging the practice. 
 Mr. Zuykov's actions anger trademark lawyers, who nonetheless concede he is violating no laws. ''It's destructive because entrepreneurs will just leave Russia'' if they cannot defend their brands, said Olga P. Barannikova, Russia's representative to the Coalition for Intellectual Property Rights. 
 Kodak, Forbes and Audi have all been targets of squatters. Mr. Zuykov said that in 2001 Audi paid him $25,000 for five brand names including the Lamborghini Diablo. Repeated phone calls to Audi's German headquarters were not returned. 
 The Swedish clothing retailer Hennes & Mauritz is in litigation against a Russian company for the H&M brand. The Swedish company's spokeswoman, Annacarin Bjorne, flatly ruled out paying a settlement, while the Russian H&M this week said it planned to open franchises in Moscow and St. Petersburg.
 Mr. Zuykov said he had never abandoned one of his trademarks before extracting money or losing in court. He has tried to trademark everything from the model names of Mercedes and Chevrolets to Coke and Pepsi soft drinks. Mr. Zuykov typically asks $30,000 to $60,000 for a brand; fighting his claim in court, which he often does not have to do, would cost a similar amount but could run much higher. Mr. Zuykov brushed aside questions about his yearly income, but volunteered that in 2000 he made enough to buy a new apartment in Moscow.
 Mr. Zuykov does not try to disguise the nature of his business. He advertises his brands on a Web site. Currently for sale on the Web, for example, is Beechcraft, the trademark for airplanes and airplane parts on the territory of Russia.
 Because some companies fight and others settle, the full scale of the problem is not known, according to patent and trademark lawyers. The problem of trademark piracy exists in a majority of the 15 former Soviet republics, except the three Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, which have adopted European Union trademark laws, these lawyers say.
 Starbucks, based in Seattle, is represented by Baker & McKenzie. The lead lawyer on the case, Eugene Arievich, declined to comment on the pending litigation. 
 The coffeehouse scene here is booming, meanwhile. The number of branded cafe chains in Moscow alone has risen to 32 in November 2004, from 22 in June 2003, led by the domestic Kofe Khaus, or Coffee House, according to a study by Rosinter, a Moscow restaurant firm.
 Asked how he could justify owning the name Starbucks -- the American chain was founded in 1971 in Pike Place Market in Seattle and is largely responsible for introducing Italian-style espresso drinks to the United States and many other countries -- Mr. Zuykov hewed close to the provisions of Russia's civil code that the cited in court. 
 ''It's not fair but that's not my problem,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sergei A. Zuykov owns the rights to the Starbucks name and 300 others. ''It's not fair, but it's legal,'' he said. (Photo by Andrea Hoyer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); TRADEMARK LAW (90%); LAWYERS (90%); TRADEMARKS (89%); PATENT LAW (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); COFFEE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BRANDING (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); INJUNCTIONS (73%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (72%); PATENTS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (64%); COUNTERFEITING (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%)

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (78%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



239 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 81 words

 BODY:
A chart in Business Day on Saturday with an article about the United States unemployment rate, which rose slightly in September, reversed numbers showing workers as a share of the population. In September, 62.8 percent of the population was employed, 0.1 percent less than the month before and 0.5 percent more than the year before; 66.2 percent of the population was either working or unemployed and seeking work, the same as the month before and 0.3 percent more than the year before.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (85%) Labor; Unemployment; Correction Stories

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



240 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Poverty Memo; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: African Food for Africa's Starving Is Roadblocked in Congress

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
It seemed like a no-brainer: changing the law to allow the federal government to buy food in Africa for Africans facing starvation instead of paying enormous sums to ship it from the American heartland, halfway around the world. Not only would the food get to the hungry in weeks instead of months, the government would save money and help African farmers at the same time. 
 The new approach had an impeccable sponsor in Republican-dominated Washington. The Bush administration, famous for its go-it-alone style, was trying to move the United States -- by far the world's biggest food donor -- into the international mainstream with a proposal to take a step in just this direction. A lot of rich countries had already done so, most recently Canada. 
So why is this seemingly sensible, cost-effective proposal near death in Congress?
 Fundamentally, because the proposal challenges the political bargain that has formed the basis for food aid over the past half century: that American generosity must be good not just for the world's hungry but also for American agriculture. That is why current law stipulates that all food aid provided by the United States Agency for International Development be grown by American farmers and mostly shipped on United States-flag vessels. More practically, however, it is because the administration's proposal has run into opposition from three interests some critics call the Iron Triangle of food aid: agribusiness, the shipping industry and charitable organizations. 
 Just four companies and their subsidiaries, led by Archer Daniels Midland and Cargill, sold more than half the $700 million in food commodities provided through the United States Agency for International Development's food aid program in 2004, government records show. Just five shipping companies received over half the more than $300 million spent to ship that food, records show.
 Members of Congress often applaud the benefits of food aid for American farmers, but that is not really how it works, as Christopher B. Barrett, a Cornell University economist and co-author of ''Food Aid After Fifty Years: Recasting its Role,'' noted. ''It's the middlemen who enjoy most of the gains,'' he said, ''not the farmers.'' 
 Mr. Barrett's research has established a third side to the triangle of interests with a deep stake in the status quo: nonprofit aid organizations. He and his co-author, Daniel Maxwell, a CARE official, found that at least seven of them, including Catholic Relief Services and CARE itself, depended on food aid for a quarter to half their budgets in 2001. Those groups distribute food in poor countries. But what is less well known is that they have also become grain traders, selling substantial amounts of the donated food on local markets in poor countries to generate tens of millions of dollars for their antipoverty programs. Given that at least 50 cents of each dollar's worth of food aid is spent on transport, storage and administrative costs, selling food to raise money in, say, Africa, is an exceedingly inefficient way to finance long-term development, Mr. Barrett said. Better to just give nonprofit groups the money directly.
 Had the Agency for International Development had the authority to buy food in Ethiopia in the mid-1980's, when a million perished, or in 1999-2000 when 20,000 died, it could have saved many more lives, said its administrator, Andrew S. Natsios, who added, ''Speed is everything in a famine response.'' 
 He pushed within the administration for a proposal that would allow up to a quarter of his agency's food aid budget to be spent in developing countries. President Bush approved the idea, he said, and it was included in the proposed 2006 budget introduced in February.
 Ed Fox, the agency's assistant administrator for legislative and public affairs, said the issue was deliberately given a low profile. Little was to be gained from putting members of Congress in the position of choosing between agricultural constituencies and starving children, he said. 
 But if the proposal was little noticed by the general public, it did not escape the attention of groups representing the so-called Iron Triangle, who argued that cash used to buy food was more likely to be misused or stolen than were in-kind food donations. They maintained that the administration's proposal should not come at the expense of a program ''upon which American producers, processors and shipping companies rely,'' as a statement from an ad hoc coalition of 17 companies and associations put it.
 The Coalition for Food Aid, which represents 16 nonprofit groups, also opposed it. While supporting the idea of buying food in poor countries, said Ellen Levinson, the coalition's lobbyist, its members favored a more limited pilot program paid for only with additional appropriations, not money from the agency's core budget.
 Ms. Levinson criticized the administration for failing to spell out how its plan would work, and said a carefully monitored pilot was needed to ensure that food bought in poor countries was safe and that the purchases did not drive up food prices for the poor. She also cautioned that food bought near a crisis would not necessarily be quicker to arrive, noting that the European Union has been very slow to release cash for food in some cases.
 But Oxfam, which accepts no direct American food aid and is not part of the coalition, has actively supported the administration's proposal. In testimony submitted to Congress, it pointedly noted that the current system offered too many opportunities ''for a variety of private interests to skim off benefits in the procurement, packaging, transportation and distribution of commodities.''
 And CARE, the second largest distributor of United States food aid and a member of the coalition, had a change of heart. It has now given unconditional support to food purchases in developing countries. 
 The food aid debate will flare again later this year as global trade talks approach, with the European Union proposing that rich countries give a growing portion of their food aid as cash. But, for now, the administration's proposal is going nowhere. Senator Mike DeWine, Republican of Ohio, still hopes Congress will ultimately allow up to 10 percent of food aid to be spent in poor countries. ''It's a question of trying to save lives,'' he said.
 But opposition remains strong. Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican who heads the House Agriculture Committee, said even Mr. DeWine's modest compromise ''would break a coalition that has resulted in one of the most successful food aid programs in world history.''
 In Canada this year, the politics of food aid has unfolded in a starkly different way, with the leading nonprofit group, the Canadian Foodgrains Bank, and the Canadian Federation of Agriculture, the country's main umbrella organization of farm groups, supporting a sharp reduction of the amount of food bought in Canada. ''Canadian farmers are not going to say you have to source food in Canada regardless of whether starving people are waiting for it,'' said the federation's president, Robert Friesen.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Malawian woman tending dry fields. Aid agencies are scrambling once again to avert starvation in Africa. (Photo by Eldson Chagara/Reuters)Chart: ''Where the Aid Goes''Because of administration and transportation costs, less than half of the money spent on Usaid food aid actually goes to pay for food.TOTAL 2005 USAID FOOD AID BUDGET*$1.6 BILLIONAdministrative costs -- $81 million: 5%Overland transportation+ -- $141 million: 9Ocean shipping from U.S. -- $341 million: 21Transportation and storage in destination country -- $410 million: 26Food cost -- $654 million: 40*Preliminary estimate.+Transportation from port to final destination in land-locked countries.(Source by Usaid)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STARVATION (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); AGRICULTURE (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CHARITIES (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); GRAIN MARKETS (60%) Agriculture; Foreign Aid; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Agriculture

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (83%); CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (92%) United States Agency for International Development

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (83%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (83%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (83%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (83%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (83%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (83%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (83%); SIC8322 INDIVIDUAL & FAMILY SOCIAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Celia Dugger

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); AFRICA (97%); MALAWI (79%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



241 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
ROGERS, JOHN STRATFORD

 BODY:
 ROGERS -- John Stratford. Chairman and CEO of World City America Inc., and World City Foundation, died on Friday, October 7, at New York Presbyterian Hospital, of complications related to multiple myeloma. Mr. Rogers attended Trinity School in New York (class of '52), and received his Bachelor of Arts from Yale University ('55) and his LLB from New York University Law School ('59). He was a Reporter for the N.Y. Journal of Commerce while attending law school. He joined the firm of Burlingham Underwood and Lord in 1959 where he became a senior partner, practicing admiralty and international law. Mr. Rogers opened branch offices (the first Western law firm) in Saudi Arabia; also in Kuwait and Egypt. He formed the American-Saudi Business Roundtable in the 70's to promote U.S.-Saudi business partnerships. In 1990, Mr. Rogers launched the Build America initiative to seize for the American economy a share of the booming foreign-flag cruise ship industry. The prototype ship, America World City, will be the world's largest passenger ship, accommodating 6,200 guests. Mr. Rogers is survived by three sons, John S. Rogers, Jr., Roland K. Rogers, and Andrew Lewis Rogers; a brother, Dr. Hartley Rogers; a sister, Joanna Macy; and three grandchildren. A Memorial Service will be held on Thursday, October 13, 2005, in the Chapel of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church at 1:00 P.M. In lieu of flowers, contributions in John Rogers' memory may be made to: the International Myeloma Foundation, 12650 Riverside Drive, Suite 206, North Hollywood, CA. 91607-3421; www.myeloma.org. 
 $(6$)ROGERS--John Stratford. World City America Inc. celebrates the life and work of its Chairman and Chief Executive, John S. Rogers. A visionary, an optimist, a highly intelligent and methodical man, he undertook, starting in 1989, to develop an American-flag cruise ship industry. His vision was an American-built and U.S-flag operated fleet of next - generation cruise ships -- city - ships -- which would seize for the American economy a share of the booming foreign-dominated cruise ship industry. The prototype city-ship, to be named America World City--The Westin Flagship, will accommodate 6,200 guests and will be the world's largest passenger ship by a significant margin. The construction of the city-ship will be a major stimulus for the rebuilding of the hurricane - devastated southern tier of the country, creating thousands of jobs and benefiting local economies through community participation programs. For over sixteen years, and with an investment of over $50million, World City America Inc., under Mr. Rogers' leadership, and with the support of hundreds of American corporations who stand to benefit from an American-flag presence in this $16-billion-ayear, foreign-dominated industry, has positioned the United States to enter the market with a superior product, capable of being built in the U.S. at an internationally competitive price, creating thousands of long-term selfsupporting jobs on the ship and ashore, and promising renewed economic prosperity for the coastal communities across the southern tier. For those of us who have worked side-by-side with this wonderful man for so many years, our loss is indescribable; but our purpose is noble and it will be all the more rewarding to accomplish it in his honor. 
 $(6$)ROGERS -- John Stratford. World City Foundation mourns the loss of its beloved Chairman and Chief Executive. Mr. Rogers' concept, to harness a major capital asset (world's largest passenger ship) as a source of perpetual funding for the attainment of the Foundation's goals, reflects a growing trend among world business organizations toward assuming a more active role in creating a healthier society and a more habitable planet. World City Foundation will carry out its educational, cultural, recreational and public policy programs and activities on board the 255,000-ton vessel, America World City-The Westin Flagship, and the profits of the ship's operations will be channeled into worthwhile programs and activities throughout the country and the world, including education, environmental protection, sustainable development, corporate responsibility, international understanding, and medical research. We have had the privilege and honor to work with a man whose vision inspired us, encouraged us, taught us, and enabled us to carry on, even without him. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); CRUISES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (61%); JOB CREATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (58%); BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (91%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



242 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: G.M. to Cut $1 Billion in Costs By Revamping Some Operations 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
General Motors plans to cut costs by $1 billion on revamped midsize cars by streamlining engineering and production, and it may build more vehicles outside the United States, Robert A. Lutz, the company's vice chairman, said yesterday.
 The cost savings that Mr. 
Lutz discussed would be from a group of nine midsize vehicles, including the Chevrolet Malibu, that G.M. plans to introduce starting in 2007.
 The reductions will be from investment, material and manufacturing expenses, Mr. Lutz said in a speech to the Automotive Press Association in Detroit. Starting on Jan. 1, G.M. will use a single engineering budget to develop all vehicles worldwide instead of four regional budgets, which sometimes led to inferior designs, he said.
 Resolving challenges like health care spending and the bankruptcy of its largest supplier, the Delphi Corporation, may help determine the number of manufacturing jobs that G.M. will be able to maintain in the United States, Mr. Lutz said. 
 G.M. has had three consecutive quarters of losses as rivals including Toyota Motor have taken part of its market share in the United States.
 ''If economic conditions are such that it becomes economically unfeasible to produce vehicles inside the United States as opposed to importing them from somewhere else, you'd be foolish to keep building,'' Mr. Lutz said. ''We don't make that decision. The overall economic environment makes that decision.''
 GM shares rose 94 cents, or 3.7 percent, to close at $26.42 yesterday. The stock gained after the billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian won antitrust clearance to raise his ownership stake in G.M. to as much as 9.9 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); MARKET SHARE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) Automobiles; Production; Engineering and Engineers; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

COMPANY: NATIONAL TECHNICAL SYSTEMS INC (92%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (59%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp

TICKER: NTSC (NASDAQ) (92%); TYT (LSE) (59%); TM (NYSE) (59%); 7203 (TSE) (59%); GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (92%); NAICS541380 TESTING LABORATORIES (92%); SIC8734 TESTING LABORATORIES (92%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



243 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Developing Nations Fault Effort to Reduce Farm Aid 

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: GENEVA, Oct. 11 

 BODY:
The United States trade chief, Rob Portman, said on Tuesday that he saw ''real movement'' in global trade talks, but developing countries signaled that they needed more concessions from the big powers.
 Mr. Portman spoke to reporters in Geneva a day after the United States and the European Union presented new proposals to cut farm tariffs and reduce agricultural subsidies in rich countries. 
 Their aim was to inject fresh life into the World Trade Organization's Doha talks, ahead of a December deadline for a pact that could open global markets in an effort to lift millions out of poverty.
 ''For the first time, I see real movement toward having a successful meeting in Hong Kong,'' said Mr. Portman, referring to a W.T.O. ministerial meeting in December where failure could kill the effort completely.
 But the foreign minister of Brazil, Celso Amorim, said the 20-nation trade bloc that he serves as chairman believed that the United States plan, offering subsidy cuts of 60 percent, was not enough. His alliance of developing countries has promised to produce its own draft soon.
 In Paris, the French trade minister, Christine Lagarde, accused the European trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson, of making too many concessions. 
 Mr. Amorim, however, said of the proposal, ''It is positive, but it is insufficient because it does not lead to real cuts'' in American spending on subsidies.
 He was echoing a suspicion, already raised by Oxfam International about both the United States and the European Union, that proposed subsidy cuts would have no real impact on aid to farmers.
 Kamal Nath, the trade minister of India, joining Mr. Amorim at a news conference after the group met to consider the United States and European Union ideas, voiced a similar view.
 ''I would welcome this step, but what we need is a leap that removes the great structural imbalances in agriculture,'' he said.
 The former United States trade representative, Clayton K. Yeutter, said, however that ''I believe we are on the verge of a significant change in American farm policy,'' adding that this would require all other W.T.O. members to play their part.
 The reactions showed there may be no quick progress, although Mr. Portman warned that action was vital now, preferably this week, to rescue the negotiations. ''We really don't have time to play games,'' he said.
 The 148-member W.T.O. must agree on a blueprint for the final stage of talks in Hong Kong, but negotiations are snagged on a range of issues, with agriculture the most pressing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%) Agriculture; International Trade and World Market; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Customs (Tariff); Agriculture

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); OXFAM INTERNATIONAL (54%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (89%); PETER MANDELSON (58%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (58%) Rob Portman

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); BRAZIL (92%); HONG KONG (92%); INDIA (79%) Brazil; France; India; Europe; European Union

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



244 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; What to Do About China And the Yuan; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: Small Companies Want Action; Big Ones Tend to Say Go Slow

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Richard T. Wilkey, who runs a small Wisconsin company that makes cutting blades for lawn mowers and harvesting equipment, worries that he will soon be vulnerable to competition from China. But he is afraid that by the time he gets help from Washington, it may be too late.
 As a result, Mr. Wilkey, a longtime member of the National Association of Manufacturers and a loyal Republican, finds himself at odds with a number of much bigger industrial companies and with President Bush over how to deal with China. He wants the administration to pressure the Chinese to increase significantly the value of their currency now, not months from now.
''If we get their currency valued as it should be -- 40 percent higher than it is today -- that will give all of us a measure of protection,'' said Mr. Wilkey, who is president and principal owner of Fisher-Barton, the company based in Waterton, Wis., that manufactures the cutting blades and other parts for farm equipment. 
 Revaluation means the Chinese would have to charge more in dollars to earn the same revenue in their currency, pushing manufacturers there to make their exports more expensive in the American marketplace. That would ease the pressure on Mr. Wilkey and on other small manufacturers. Many big manufacturers export to the United States from factories in China and benefit from a weak yuan.
 The growing rift among manufacturers over trade policy comes with Treasury Secretary John W. Snow in China this week hoping to persuade its leaders to move more quickly on the currency front. While the rift is a challenge to the administration's more cautious approach, it also is a warning signal to the Chinese of a potential protectionist backlash in the United States if they do not revalue the yuan more rapidly. 
 The administration still favors gradual revaluation, achieved through negotiations, says Tony Fratto, acting assistant secretary of the Treasury. So do multinationals like Whirlpool, which makes microwave ovens in China and exports them to the United States.
 The unified support from the business community that President Bush enjoys on almost every other issue breaks down over China policy. 
 ''I don't think people like me want protectionism,'' Mr. Wilkey said, insisting that he, like the president, is a free trader. ''But we do want the administration to level the playing field.''
 That soothing language masks some significant differences. The National Association of Manufacturers, whose 12,000 members include small and large manufacturers, has endorsed the Bush administration's go-slow approach.
 With that policy in place, the Chinese in July raised the value of the yuan against the dollar by just over 2 percent and promised further revaluations. There have been no follow-on steps, however, and small manufacturers have responded by throwing their support to a bill in Congress that would penalize the Chinese for their inaction. 
 The N.A.M., in its policy statements and lobbying activities, resists this pressure. It sides with the administration's go-slow approach, partly because big multinationals dominate the trade association, paying most of the dues, and partly because the association's recently appointed president, John M. Engler, a former Republican governor of Michigan, supports the administration generally.
 Under his direction, the N.A.M. for the first time even endorsed a Supreme Court nominee, John G. Roberts Jr.
 Mr. Engler has managed to forge a compromise, at least for now, one that seeks to minimize the disagreement among manufacturers on the China currency issue. ''No manufacturer, large or small, thinks it is efficient for one country to undervalue its currency,'' he said in an interview. But moving too fast, he added, could anger the Chinese and ''precipitate a trade conflict.'' 
 Mr. Wilkey would take that risk, he says, to protect Fisher-Barton's $85 million a year in sales from what he sees as the danger of unfairly subsidized Chinese competition. The bill he supports in Congress would penalize the Chinese by making ''currency manipulation'' a trade violation.
 The artificially low yuan would be classified in United States trade law as an unfair government subsidy. If Mr. Wilkey or any manufacturer demonstrated damage to sales as a result of the subsidy, countervailing duties could be levied on the offending imports.
 That is a relatively tough, though less aggressive response than the one proposed by Senators Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. Their bill, introduced in February, promised to impose a 27 percent tariff on all Chinese imports if China failed to revalue its currency by at least that much within a year of the bill's passage. 
 The two senators withdrew their proposal after the Chinese acted in July. They have threatened, however, to revive it next month if Beijing does not move soon to strengthen its currency further. President Bush has promised to veto any such measure.
 Many small manufacturers, hoping to step up the pressure on the Chinese, have meanwhile joined Mr. Wilkey in rallying around the bill that would make ''currency manipulation'' an unfair government subsidy. The bill was introduced in April by Representatives Duncan Hunter, Republican of California, and Tim Ryan, Democrat of Ohio. Some small manufacturers have even joined ad hoc trade associations to push for passage. 
 ''We need laws that allow injured parties to seek remedies,'' said David Frengel, the director of government affairs for Penn United Technologies, which makes precision dies at a factory in Saxonburg, Pa. Mr. Frengel represents Penn United at the N.A.M. but also is a leader of the recently organized Manufacturers for Fair Trade. What its members share is a resistance to moving production offshore, often because they are too small to do so. 
 By contrast executives at Whirlpool, a major multinational with big appliance-making operations not just in the United States but around the world, shudder at the antiglobalization sentiments of their smaller brethren. The microwave ovens that Whirlpool sells in the United States come from factories in China.
 ''We are not rushing to revalue the yen,'' said Stephen J. Duthie, a Whirlpool spokesman. He argues that rapid revaluation would repeat in China the ''shock therapy'' that damaged the Russian economy when it floated its currency too quickly in the early 1990's. 
 The opposition at Whirlpool to rapid yuan revaluation is shared by Caterpillar, the manufacturer of heavy construction equipment based in Peoria, Ill., and by Cummins, a diesel engine and truck parts manufacturer in Columbus, Ind. 
 Douglas R. Oberhelman, a group president at Caterpillar, said his company was ''going to be a player in China,'' and the United States has to deal with the currency issue ''in an orderly fashion.''
 F. Joseph Loughrey, president of Cummins, takes a similar approach. The company's global operations, he said, would on balance ''gain a little, but not a lot, from currency revaluation in China,'' and the right thing to do is to ''move step by step.''
 That gradualist approach draws scorn from Sandra Westlund-Deenihan, president of Quality Float Works Inc. in Schaumburg, Ill. Her company, founded by her grandfather, manufactures spherical steel floats, similar in shape to those in toilet flushing mechanisms, but finely machined to precise specifications for use in hydraulic pumps and complex machinery.
 The Chinese have tried to compete against her in the American market, but unsuccessfully so far. ''You could push your finger through the metal they use,'' Ms. Westlund-Deenihan said. ''And it is not corrosion resistant.''
 She describes herself as a lifelong Republican and a staunch supporter of the Bush administration. But on the currency issue, she wants the yuan strengthened substantially before the Chinese figure out how to manufacture high-quality industrial floats. Prompt revaluation is her stated position as a new member of the N.A.M. board, seated alongside the reluctant representatives of Whirlpool, Caterpillar and Cummins.
 ''I do not want to bow to China in my lifetime,'' Ms. Westlund-Deenihan said in an interview. ''I do not want to see them taking over in every area of manufacturing.''
 Faced with this dissension, Mr. Engler has engineered a temporary detente. His compromise puts the Ryan-Hunter bill aside for the moment -- without opposing it -- and declares that the N.A.M. members, big and small, favor as a first step a more modest bill introduced last July by Representative Phil English, Republican of Pennsylvania.
 That bill, adopted in the House and now before the Senate, says that China would be subject for the first time to countervailing duties, but it does not specify the offenses for which they could be applied. 
 In the debate among manufacturers preceding the compromise, Mr. Frengel pushed for rapid revaluation of the Chinese yuan, with the Ryan-Hunter bill as the club to make that happen. Late last month, however, he and other leaders of the small manufacturers agreed to endorse the English bill, which authorizes sanctions, although it does not specify currency manipulation as a trade violation. 
 ''We would have preferred support from the N.A.M. for Ryan-Hunter,'' Mr. Frengel said. ''But we did succeed in getting the big manufacturers to agree, on the record, that negotiating with China might not be enough.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Wednesday about differences among American manufacturers over China's decision in July to increase the value of its currency, the yuan, by 2 percent, misspelled the name of the headquarters town of Fisher-Barton, a company whose owner, Richard T. Wilkey, wants the yuan revalued as soon as possible by as much as 40 percent. It is Watertown, Wis., not Waterton. The article also misstated the currency name in a comment from Stephen J. Duthie of Whirlpool. He said: ''We are not rushing to revalue the yuan,'' not the yen.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard T. Wilkey is at odds with a number of much bigger industrial companies and with President Bush over how to deal with China. (Photo by Andy Manis for The New York Times)(pg. C8)
 Richard T. Wilkey, right, owner of Fisher-Barton, and one of his parts plants, top right, in Sun Prairie, Wis. (Photographs by Andy Manis for The New York Times)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PROTECTIONISM (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



245 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Only Marginal Reforms Are Expected in Germany

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN and MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: BERLIN, Oct. 11 

 BODY:
Udo Pfeiffer, the head of a small machinery maker in the Rhineland, is a disappointed man. He was hopeful that Angela Merkel, Germany's presumptive new chancellor, would sweep to power with a mandate to eliminate the cumbersome regulations that make doing business here difficult.
 But when Mrs. Merkel faltered and was forced into a coalition with her political rivals, the Social Democrats, Mr. Pfeiffer and many others like him felt that an opportunity of historic dimensions had been missed. 
 They had hoped that, like Margaret Thatcher almost a generation ago, Mrs. Merkel would breeze to victory and take on the country's powerful unions, loosening job-protection laws and lowering non-wage labor costs, which are among the world's highest -- actions that they believe would go a long way toward restoring Germany's competitive position in the global economy.
 ''Merkel needs to speak honestly to the German people,'' Mr. Pfeiffer said. ''She needs to tell them, 'Either we have to work longer hours for the same pay, or if we stick to a 35-hour week, we have to lower wages.'''
 But many people here, including what seem to be a majority of commentators and political analysts, now believe that marginal reforms are probably the most that can be expected of the coalition government that, presumably, will be formed in the next several weeks. 
 The reasons for that go well beyond the constricting factor of operating within a coalition of political rivals with competing policies and constituencies. They have to do as well with the very nature of Germany's traditions and the powerful public attachment to the idea of big government as the guarantor of personal security, an attachment that goes beyond Germany to many other countries in Europe, from France to Scandinavia to Austria.
 ''In my opinion, this is the main cleavage in the West,'' Claus Leggewie, a professor of political science at Giessen University, said in an interview, speaking about the gap between the British-American faith in free markets and the Continental European reliance on the state.
 ''There is always this ongoing yearning for security and the belief that security cannot be given by the market economy,'' Mr. Leggewie continued. ''It can only be given by the state.''
 In declining to give a majority to Mrs. Merkel and, in a sense, forcing her into a coalition with the Social Democrats, Germany's voters acted pretty much in accordance with tradition. They gave their approval, perhaps, to a modest increase in the reforms, known as Agenda 2010, that were put into place by Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, but nothing more radical than that.
 ''Mrs. Merkel will be a Christian Democratic chancellor in a Social Democratic government,'' Mr. Leggewie said.
 The problem for many economists is that even after Mr. Schroder's reforms -- which were so angrily opposed and bitterly resented that they led to defections in his own Social Democratic Party -- Germany still has a social welfare system of, to Americans, astonishing generosity.
 The most controversial aspect of Agenda 2010, which became effective at the beginning of this year, involved new restrictions on the length of time a worker who lost a job could receive unemployment benefits, after which that person is put on the regular welfare rolls, which are less generous, indefinitely.
 According to the new measure, called Hartz IV, unemployed people who have gone on welfare still have their rent paid for by the state, 100 percent of it, including heat and electricity. They are provided with health insurance, nursing insurance and pension insurance. They are reimbursed for the purchase of major appliances like stoves and refrigerators. 
 In addition, each welfare recipient gets a stipend of nearly $420 a month plus $240 a month for each child under 14 for additional living expenses. In other words, a family of four people with two children, assuming both parents are unemployed, would receive free rent and utilities plus $1,350 per month, with no time limit on the benefits. Even after Hartz IV, in other words, Germany has one of the most generous social welfare systems in Europe.
 Another reform central to Mrs. Merkel's free market philosophy, and the one that most concerns Mr. Pfeiffer, is giving greater flexibility to the strict rules that govern wage agreements. 
 Mr. Pfeiffer's 280 workers are covered by an industry-wide labor contract negotiated by the powerful metalworkers union, IG Metall. Mr. Pfeiffer would like a more flexible deal that, he said, might be acceptable to at least some of the worker representatives in his company, who recognize that it could help protect their jobs. 
 But the union opposes such exceptions, and its authority is not likely to be challenged, because Mrs. Merkel's proposal during the campaign to weaken collective-bargaining agreements will probably be shelved.
 ''Germany does not need abstract economic ideas; it needs labor market reforms,'' said Holger Schmieding, an economist at Bank of America.
 But in a sense, such labor market reforms would reverse trends in Germany that go all the way back to the country's first chancellor, Otto von Bismarck, and that certainly formed the basis for the kind of buffered capitalism, often called Rhine capitalism, that has formed Germany's economy in just about the entire post-World War II era. It is a capitalism, as Mr. Leggewie put it, that is ''more egalitarian, more distributive, a capitalism where the state always plays a role as moderator between labor and capital.'' 
 Moreover, the system has worked well historically, making Germany one of the world's richest and most productive countries, without the bitter and even bloody labor strife that has afflicted the British-American world.
 Today, despite its zero growth and high unemployment, Germany remains the world's biggest exporter, even in this age of globalization and cheap manufactured goods from China.
 That is one reason many people here believe that small reforms are all that is needed, and that Germany can end its stagnation with small reforms and cooperation between capital and labor of the sort that have already led to some important reductions in labor costs.
 But many other people, including many economists, are convinced that the country, living on borrowed capital, will decline unless major reforms are undertaken.
 ''We have to change the widespread idea that the economic miracle, the good times, are coming back,'' Wolfgang Nowak, a former adviser to Mr. Schroder who is now an official at Deutsche Bank, said in an interview shortly before the coalition government was announced. ''The German dream is over. Other countries are making cars as wonderful as German cars. We aren't better than the others anymore, and we're more expensive.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chancellor-designate Angela Merkel rang a bell to open a meeting of her party's legislators yesterday. (Photo by Herbert Knosowski/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WORK WEEK (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); TRENDS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); INTERVIEWS (61%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Unemployment

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (92%); GERHARD SCHRODER (58%) Richard Bernstein; Mark Landler; Angela Merkel

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); FRANCE (71%); AUSTRIA (58%) Germany; Germany

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



246 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Liberians Line Up to Vote, Saying Long Wait Is Worth It

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: MONROVIA, Liberia, Oct. 11 

 BODY:
They came carrying benches to sit on for the long hours of waiting, umbrellas to shield them from the harsh sun and punishing rain, and above all the small laminated cards that give each man and woman in this long-suffering nation the chance to elect new leaders on Tuesday to guide them beyond a decade and a half of war. 
 ''This election is the only thing that can save us from more war,'' said Jonathan Lephas, a 41-year-old farmer who waited to cast his ballot in a camp for displaced people in Kakata, about an hour northeast of Monrovia, the capital. ''I will wait here the whole night to vote. We need peace.'' 
More than 1.3 million people registered to vote in Liberia's first election since the warlord-turned-president Charles Taylor was ousted by rebel groups after 14 years of civil war that left 200,000 Liberians dead and forced more than a third from their homes. There are 22 candidates for president and hundreds of contestants for the 94 seats in the Senate and House of Representatives hoping to take office after what has been a remarkably peaceful campaign. 
 There are no reliable surveys, but the leading candidates in the race for president appear to be George Weah, a 39-year-old former soccer superstar and philanthropist, and Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, a 66-year-old economist and former World Bank official who has long been an opposition figure in Liberian politics. 
 With the electorate evenly split between men and women, and with people under the age of 28 making up 40 percent of it, the campaign has underscored the age and gender patterns present in many African countries. High voter registration rates here have given considerable electoral power to women and young people. Liberians who are 18 and older are eligible to vote. 
 Mr. Weah (pronounced WAY-ah), who grew up in a Monrovia slum and has little formal education, has a huge following among a young, largely illiterate generation that sees him as their champion. Ms. Johnson-Sirleaf, who has promoted her Harvard graduate degree and long experience in public life, has a broad base among women and the Liberian elite. 
 Thousands of election monitors, including former President Jimmy Carter and 400 other foreigners, fanned out across this small West African nation to ensure fairness in what may be the first truly free election in this troubled country's 158-year history. From its founding by freed slaves from the United States in the 19th century, Liberia has struggled to fashion a peaceful nation from its polyglot mix of indigenous tribes and the descendants of those slaves, who ruled the country for much of its history. 
 From 1989 until Mr. Taylor was pushed from power in August 2003, the country suffered through a civil war that brutalized Liberians and destabilized the entire region. Years of war and decades of corrupt rule have left the country shattered, with little infrastructure, no electricity or running water and a generation of young people who have had little schooling and few prospects. A two-year interim government has run the country since Mr. Taylor's ouster but has done little rebuilding, in no small part because of corruption. 
 Alan Doss, the top United Nations official here, said after inspecting several polling places on Tuesday morning that the election appeared to be going well. 
 ''It is heartening,'' he said. ''Who would have thought two years ago that we would be here?'' 
 Turnout appeared to be very high. Each of more than 3,000 polling places was set up to handle up to 600 voters, and lines formed early -- many voters arrived the night before, bringing bedrolls and food so they could sleep outdoors as they waited for the polls to open. 
 Donzo Lassana, 65, arrived at his polling station, an old middle school in Tubmanburg, at 2 a.m. Eight hours later, he was still waiting to cast his ballot. 
 ''We waited a long time for this election, so now we wait a little longer,'' Mr. Lassana said. 
 Tubmanburg was the stronghold of the main rebel faction responsible for ousting Mr. Taylor, Liberians United for Reconciliation and Democracy, or LURD. The city's buildings bear the countless scars of bullet holes, only a handful of which have been patched. Its human scars are less visible but still evident -- hundreds of disarmed fighters live here, waiting for jobs and training. 
 ''We need to have a chance to develop ourselves,'' said Sackie Sumo, a 32-year-old former LURD fighter, as he waited to cast his ballot. ''We don't want to fight anymore, but we need jobs and food.'' 
 Election officials said preliminary results could be available as soon as Wednesday. If no candidate in the presidential race gets a majority, a runoff will take place next month.
 Voting rules were enforced so strictly that when the head of the interim government, Gyude Bryant, tried to cast his ballot in his hometown in the far eastern corner of the country, he was turned away because he forgot his voting card, despite pleading calls to the head of the election commission.
 Outside polling stations, voters jubilantly waved thumbs stained with purple indelible ink, the sign that they had voted. 
 Inside, a somber air verging on reverence prevailed. At polling place 30542, St. Matthew Lutheran Church in Monrovia, the Rev. Zaza Kollie was the presiding officer. Election workers handed out footlong ballots emblazoned with the face and party symbol of each candidate. 
 ''The enthusiasm is high,'' Mr. Kollie said. Of the 550 people registered to vote at his station, already more than 400 had cast ballots, he said, and dozens more remained in line outside, which could push turnout in his precinct to close to 90 percent. 
 The day also brought trials, Mr. Kollie said. With bad roads, poor communications and no electricity, pulling off an election this complex was an uphill battle for a poor nation like Liberia, even with significant help from international donors. Looking worriedly at the setting sun, Mr. Kollie said he was concerned that voters would not be able to make out the ballots by the dim light shed from the single battery-operated lantern given to each polling place. 
 ''I only have eight batteries,'' he said. ''God willing, they will last until the last ballot is cast.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: In predawn darkness yesterday, thousands of Liberians waited at a polling place in Monrovia to cast their ballots for a president and lawmakers. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); SLAVERY (72%); DISPLACED PERSONS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (71%); ELECTION MONITORING (70%); SOCCER (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Elections; Politics and Government

PERSON: ELLEN JOHNSON-SIRLEAF (72%); JIMMY CARTER (56%) Lydia Polgreen; George Weah; Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf; Charles Taylor

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBERIA (95%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%) Liberia

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



247 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Tax Panel Says Popular Breaks Should Be Cut 

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11 

 BODY:
President Bush's tax advisory commission indicated on Tuesday that it would not propose replacing the income tax with a national sales tax or a value-added tax, but would recommend limits in the popular tax deductions for mortgage interest and employer-provided health insurance.
 The commission, scheduled to make its recommendations to the president by Nov. 1 on how to change the tax system, did not take votes or dwell on details, but its consensus on many important issues was clear.
''We're getting focused on the income tax as a base,'' said the panel's chairman, Connie Mack, a former Republican senator from Florida.
 Many prominent conservatives have argued over the years that the income tax is a drag on the economy and should be scrapped in favor of a consumption tax, a tax based not on what people earn, but on what they spend. 
 But the commission members concluded that consumption taxes like the value-added tax used in Europe had more drawbacks than advantages. 
 Various proposals for a flat tax -- an income tax with everyone paying the same rate -- are still under consideration, said Jeffrey F. Kupfer, the commission's executive director. The proposals are to be discussed at a meeting next week. 
 At its last meeting, in July, the commission agreed to recommend abolishing the alternative minimum tax for individuals, a step that would cost the federal government $1.2 trillion in lost revenue over 10 years.
 With a mandate to develop a proposal for changing the tax system that is revenue neutral -- meaning it neither raises nor lowers total tax receipts -- the commission must find enough revenue to offset the amount now generated by the alternative minimum tax. 
 That is mainly what led to an examination of ways to modify the deductions for mortgage interest and health insurance, two of the largest tax breaks now available to individuals. Together, the two deductions will cost the treasury about $250 billion this year, with the benefits going disproportionately to the most affluent taxpayers.
 The commission members decided that another popular deduction, for charitable contributions, should be expanded rather than cut back. They are looking at how to give the tax break to taxpayers who do not itemize deductions.
 President Bush is not committed to adopting the commission's recommendations, and the prospects in Congress of limiting the mortgage and health insurance tax breaks, sure to be politically unpopular, are uncertain.
 The panel's vice chairman, John B. Breaux, a former Democratic senator from Louisiana, acknowledged the political difficulty but said, ''We've got to make bold recommendations without regard to politics.''
 Mr. Bush appointed the commission in January, largely so that Congress would concentrate first on Social Security. The panel was originally supposed to report on its recommendations in July, but the deadline was extended twice, first to Sept. 30 and then to Nov. 1.
 For mortgage loans up to $1 million, taxpayers can now deduct all the interest. One proposal discussed on Tuesday would cap the deduction at the maximum mortgage the Federal Housing Administration will insure. 
 That level changes each year and varies depending on housing costs in each county, with a maximum loan limit now of $312,895 in communities where housing is most expensive and a national average of $244,000, according to the housing administration.
 Another proposal under consideration was to change the interest deduction to a credit, meaning that taxpayers with the same size mortgage payments would get the same tax break regardless of what tax bracket they were in.
 A third idea was to limit the deduction to 15 percent or 25 percent of a taxpayer's mortgage interest payments. The wealthiest taxpayers can now deduct 35 percent of the interest.
 The panel members said they had not calculated how much revenue any of these proposals would generate. But the Congressional Budget Office reported this year that a $500,000 ceiling on the mortgage principal for which interest can be deducted would raise $48 billion over 10 years.
 The panel members agreed that any of these changes would have to be phased in gradually to reduce the financial disruption for homeowners. 
 In the case of employer-paid health insurance, the main proposal the panel discussed would limit tax-free premium payments to the average cost of the premium the government pays for federal workers. That is now about $11,000 a year for family coverage.
 Under the current law, employers can deduct every penny they pay for health insurance for their workers, and the workers are not taxed on this benefit. The panel did not agree on whether the employers or employees would be taxed if a ceiling were imposed, but as a practical matter, there would probably be no difference.
 The proposal the panel discussed would allow taxpayers whose employers did not provide health insurance to deduct the amount of the premiums they paid for themselves.
 The main proponent of the health insurance proposal, Timothy J. Muris, a former chairman of the Federal Trade Commission and a law professor at George Mason University, said limitless tax-free health insurance premiums encouraged workers to demand and companies to offer overly generous insurance and resulted in increased health costs.
 Mr. Muris said he did not know how much revenue his plan would raise. The Congressional Budget Office calculated this year that a limit of $3,720 in tax-exempt premiums for an individual and $8,640 for a family policy would raise $706 billion over 10 years.
 Mr. Mack and Mr. Breaux said the housing and health proposals they were considering would not raise enough to offset fully the cost of abolishing the alternative minimum tax. This left open the possibility that they would end up recommending a limit on the deduction of state and local income taxes, a proposal that would most likely cause a political uproar.
 Conservatives have long hoped to get rid of the progressive income tax. When the commission began work, there were three main possibilities: a value-added tax, a national sales tax and a flat income tax. 
 After discussing a value-added tax, which is assessed on each stage of production and eventually paid by consumers, the panel members concluded that this would be what Mr. Mack called a ''money machine,'' meaning that politicians could raise it at will without political pain. 
 The commission members also agreed that a value-added tax would be a disproportionate burden on middle-income taxpayers and would complicate the tax system.
 Mr. Mack asked the commission staff to draft a proposal for a value-added tax, but that seemed to be a formality. ''I think it's going to be very difficult to get a consensus,'' he said.
 As for a national sales tax, the idea was dropped after a commission member, Edward P. Lazear, a labor economist at Stanford University and the Hoover Institution, a public policy research center, reported that the sales tax would have to be as high as 87 percent on most goods and services if items like medicine, education, food and clothing were not taxed.
 A discussion of a flat tax at a meeting of the commission in July indicated that the panel would have difficulty reaching a consensus on the details. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); VALUE ADDED TAX (91%); SALES TAX (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (72%); CHARITIES (72%); CHARITABLE GIVING (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (59%); CONNIE MACK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



248 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Some Ideas in Search of an Author

 BODY:
It was Sept. 15 when President Bush, in his shirt sleeves, strode out to a lectern set up in an eerie, nearly empty Jackson Square in New Orleans to tell the American people about his bold plan to rebuild the devastated Gulf Coast. ''As all of us saw on television, there is also some deep, persistent poverty in this region as well,'' he said. ''And that poverty has roots in a history of racial discrimination, which cut off generations from the opportunity of America. We have a duty to confront this poverty with bold action. So let us restore all that we have cherished from yesterday, and let us rise above the legacy of inequality.'' 
 Toward that end, Mr. Bush proposed a Gulf Opportunity Zone to provide tax incentives and loans for small businesses, including minority-owned ones. He asked Congress to pass what he called an Urban Homesteading Act, which he said would provide, through a lottery, free building sites on federal land for low-income citizens. ''Throughout the area hit by the hurricane, we will do what it takes, we will stay as long as it takes, to help citizens rebuild their communities and their lives,'' the president said.
That was a month ago. This week, the only talk about legislative action has come from the conservative Republicans calling for new holes in the social safety net, while the president remains mum about that -- and just about everything else. Administration officials have yet to put forward any kind of legislative blueprint for Congress on the Gulf Opportunity Zone. A spokesman for Mr. Bush, Trent Duffy, told reporters that the proposal is ''pending in Congress,'' whatever that means. He waved off any idea that ''the White House would send a big 'Here's Our Recovery' package.'' 
 But, of course, that was exactly what Americans expected the White House to do. There seems to be no coordinated plan, no single person in charge of making the recovery happen. With this president, there is a vast gulf between words and action. 
 Americans were understandably dismayed when confronted with President Bush's slow response to the unfolding disaster of Hurricane Katrina. They were equally dismayed by the evident lack of disaster expertise among the men the president had tapped to handle such emergencies. Mr. Bush was supposed to have put an end to that dismal story when he spoke at Jackson Square. But that seems to have been nothing but a grand and meaningless gesture. Where are the actual programs he's supposed to be putting into place to rebuild the city? Administration officials say they have located about 4,000 federal properties that could be provided as part of the urban homesteading proposal Mr. Bush announced in New Orleans. That is a drop in the bucket when compared with the actual need; more than a quarter of a million homes were damaged or destroyed by Katrina. How will the recovery work? Who will decide how much to spend, and on what?
 Yes, there is an expectation that the White House will send a big Here's Our Recovery package to Congress. Where is it?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HURRICANES (77%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CITIES (73%); RACE & RACISM (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); TAX LAW (69%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); WRITERS (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (54%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



249 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Time for Reflection And Dissection In Yankees' World

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER; Richard Sandomir and Ben Shpigel contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
George Steinbrenner's motives were not always this cryptic. Two years ago, as he walked to his limousine outside Yankee Stadium after watching the Florida Marlins win the World Series, Steinbrenner, the Yankees' principal owner, was asked if he was satisfied with Manager Joe Torre.
 ''I've said, many times, yes,'' Steinbrenner snapped.
Steinbrenner was home yesterday in Tampa, Fla., not talking about the Yankees' first-round knockout by the Los Angeles Angels in Game 5 of the division series Monday. He issued a statement through his publicist, Howard J. Rubenstein, and the only manager he referred to was Mike Scioscia of the Angels. 
 ''I congratulate the Angels and their manager on the great job they've done,'' the statement said. ''Our team played hard, but we let our fans down. Our fans are the greatest in the world, and I want to thank them for their amazing support throughout the season. We will do better.''
 Steinbrenner did not say how the Yankees would do better, or who would manage them, or who would be the general manager. Torre is signed for two more years. General Manager Brian Cashman is signed through Oct. 31. Steinbrenner has said nothing about their fates.
 ''He's not discussing any of that now,'' Rubenstein said.
 Cashman, who broke down in tears in the Yankees' clubhouse Monday when reporters asked about his professional future, did not return phone calls yesterday. Torre is expected to meet members of the news media today at Yankee Stadium, and Steinbrenner will be a hot topic.
 Torre resisted any impulse to speak about Steinbrenner over the last few months of the season. But Steinbrenner's subtle needling -- through comments to reporters, statements through Rubenstein, and postgame questions through the YES Network -- rankled Torre, and he promised to address his feelings after the season.
 Torre has vowed to fulfill his contract, which has $13 million left, and Steinbrenner said as recently as June that Torre's job was safe. But that was before Lou Piniella hit the open market.
 Piniella, a former Yankees player, manager and general manager, parted with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays after three seasons and is a favorite of Steinbrenner's. Asked about the Yankees yesterday, Piniella was careful to praise Torre and avoid any appearance of campaigning for his job.
 ''Torre is an excellent manager, and he's done a fantastic job for the 10 years he's been there,'' said Piniella, who is a Fox broadcaster for the American League Championship Series. ''I have the utmost respect for him. The Yankees have a great manager in place for many years.''
 Piniella added: ''I'm free, but it doesn't mean that I have anything in mind or I'm looking for a job. I'll entertain, but I'm not talking about the Yankees job, but in general. I'm prepared to sit out and play some golf and catch up on my leisure time. I'm unemployed.''
 The Yankees had hoped to be in Chicago yesterday for the A.L.C.S., but their ouster by the Angels forced them to take a longer flight. Their plane had mechanical problems and was forced to stop in Houston for hours. Rick Cerrone, the media relations director, said the team was six hours behind schedule in returning to Yankee Stadium, where three buses pulled up at 11:58 a.m.
 Within 15 minutes, all but three players had left. Mike Mussina and Robinson Cano did not take questions. Al Leiter, who reiterated that he almost certainly would retire, said the team's mood was somber.
 ''Terrible, terrible,'' Leiter said, describing the mood. ''It was a terrible loss.'' Later, he added, ''It was a depressing room.''
 Torre looked devastated in the clubhouse after the loss, with heavy circles under his eyes. This defeat hit him harder than even last year's historic playoff loss to the Boston Red Sox, Torre said, because that one was gradual and this was sudden.
 ''I just felt, deep down, that we were going to find a way to get it done,'' Torre said.
 In many ways, the Yankees did the right things against the Angels. They were not steamrolled the way they were in the 2002 division series, when the Angels batted .376. This time, the Angels hit a more modest .275.
 The Yankees kept Vladimir Guerrero, the most dangerous Angels hitter, from driving in any runs in the series. Chone Figgins, the Angels' distracting leadoff man, hit .143 with no stolen bases.
 The Yankees' pitchers issued only five walks all series. The Angels' pitchers issued 24. But when the Yankees had chances, their offense disappeared. They batted .222 with runners in scoring position for the series, according to Stats Inc.
 ''Good pitching is always going to be better than good hitting,'' shortstop Derek Jeter said. ''They had plans, and they stuck to their plans. They really beared down when we had guys on base.''
 Still, it was a remarkable offensive collapse by the Yankees, considering what had happened to the Angels' starting pitchers. The Yankees knocked out Paul Byrd in the fourth inning of Game 3. Jarrod Washburn was too sick to pitch Game 4. Bartolo Colon left Game 5 in the second inning because of a shoulder injury.
 Even so, the Angels found ways to win two of those games (and lose by a run in the other). Ervin Santana, the rookie who replaced Colon in Game 5, overcame a wobbly start and pitched into the seventh inning.
 Had the decisive game been played at Yankee Stadium, would the outcome have been different? The Yankees could have ensured home-field advantage with a victory in Boston on the final day of the regular season, a day after they clinched the East division.
 Torre started Jaret Wright that day, holding back Mussina for the division series opener, and the Yankees lost, 10-1. Mussina was asked Monday if home-field advantage had made a difference.
 ''Not really,'' Mussina said. ''We split here and split in New York, so I'm not sure you can really look at home field one way or the other. We played well at home, and we played well on the road, too.''
 They just did not play well enough in the final game, a 5-3 loss that brought another season to a disheartening end. It was the Yankees' fifth consecutive season without a championship.
 ''It's tough to win, man, it really is,'' said catcher Jorge Posada, who played for four World Series winners under Torre. ''It's really tough to put it into words. Back then, we were the team to beat. I think we were still, this year. It just didn't happen.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: After Derek Jeter's single in the top of the ninth inning with the Yankees down, 5-3, Alex Rodriguez hit into a double play. Rodriguez finished 2 for 15 with no R.B.I. in the series. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. D3)
 (Photograph by Chris O'Meara/Associated Press)(pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (76%) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); FLORIDA MARLINS (84%) New York Yankees

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (72%); DEREK JETER (58%) Tyler Kepner; Joe Torre; Brian Cashman

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005



250 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Morocco's Great Strides

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''In Morocco, a Rights Movement, at the King's Pace'' (front page, Oct. 1) rightly highlights many of the democratic reforms Morocco has made in recent years. 
 Morocco has made great strides in bolstering civil society, increasing women's rights and confronting past government abuse. Morocco's parliamentary elections in 2003 were deemed free, fair and transparent by the United States State Department and the National Democratic Institute, an American nongovernmental organization. 
 Moreover, Morocco is working hard to improve its economy, making the country business-friendly and starting an important human development and education initiative.
 Morocco has passed free-trade agreements with the United States and the European Union, leveraging its geographical position and its historic ties to the United States and Europe. 
 Our country is not yet perfect, but it is moving in the right direction, one that will provide stability and liberty for its citizens.
 As we continue our journey of reform, we are proud that Morocco was the first nation formally to recognize the fledgling United States in 1777 and that the friendship between our two countries has been strong and constant since.

Aziz Mekouar
Ambassador of Morocco
Washington, Oct. 6, 2005

CORRECTION-DATE: October 27, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A letter on Oct. 13 about democratic reforms in Morocco cited the wrong date for the country's parliamentary elections. They were in 2002, not 2003.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (79%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); WOMEN (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); MOROCCO (94%); EUROPE (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



251 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Stands Alone on Unesco Cultural Issue

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
Two years ago, in an uncharacteristic nod toward multilateralism, the Bush administration ended a 19-year-long American boycott of Unesco. Today, the United States risks total isolation in the 191-member organization as the sole country opposing a new convention on cultural diversity.
 Until recently, differences had focused on obscure diplomatic phrases. But in the countdown to a final vote next week, negotiations have grown increasingly bitter, with the dispute now assuming political significance and even raising questions about the future role of the United States at Unesco.
The convention's supporters argue that the treaty will protect and promote cultural diversity in the face of cultural globalization, but the United States believes it is intended to restrict exports of American audiovisual products, particularly Hollywood movies and television programs. 
 Next Thursday, when the convention is finally to be put to a vote at the headquarters of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in Paris, everything suggests that the United States will be the only country to vote against it.
 In fact, the United States has already stood alone. On three recent procedural votes related to the convention, its position was successively defeated by 54 to 1, 53 to 1 and 158 to 1.
 Last-minute lobbying is still under way to avoid a one-against-all outcome, with the 25-nation European Union, whose current president is Britain, urging the United States to join the consensus. Embarrassed to be at loggerheads with Washington, Britain insists that the convention poses none of the dangers identified by the Bush administration.
 But Washington is not convinced. Last week, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice wrote to member governments expressing ''deep concern'' about the convention, calling for postponement of its adoption and warning that it ''will only undermine Unesco's image and sow confusion and conflict rather than cooperation.''
 Sponsored by France and Canada, two countries that have long used subsidies and quotas to help their movie, television and radio industries to hold back American popular culture, the convention was inspired by a desire to shield culture from international agreements to liberalize trade.
 But the final draft falls short of original intentions. Indeed, without ''teeth'' to enforce its principles, many experts expect the convention to have little impact on what is already a globalized market for cultural products, one in which India's Bollywood, Japanese animation movies and Brazilian and Mexican television soap operas have a place alongside Hollywood blockbusters.
 The United States nonetheless believes that the final draft is open to misunderstandings that could allow governments to control culture, even through censorship, and to block the free flow of ideas and information, its euphemism for Hollywood's exports.
 In one sense, of course, another negative American vote next week will change little. The convention will be adopted and, once ratified by 30 countries, will go into effect. The United States will not sign it and, as with the Kyoto Protocol climate treaty and the treaty creating the International Criminal Court, will probably remain a critical -- and perhaps obstructionist -- outsider.
 More worrisome to some Unesco officials, however, is the political damage caused by a convention that, years hence, may join many other international treaties in oblivion. In their view, the convention's principal significance is as a symbol of how the United States and some of its closest allies view the world differently -- and not only on culture.
 Given the relative weakness of the final draft, there are even some who argue that the convention needs American opposition: without it, there might be little reason to proclaim victory over cultural homogeneity a l'Americaine.
 The key question now is whether, finding itself isolated, the United States will retaliate by, say, cutting its monetary contribution to the organization, which is 22 percent of Unesco's budget. Unesco is not without friends in Washington, where its educational programs enjoy support. But Congressional critics of the United Nations, who opposed the American return to Unesco, may feel vindicated.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The global reach of Hollywood blockbusters is among the issues in a Unesco vote scheduled for next week. (Photo by Steve Forrest for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); FILM (88%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EXPORT CONTROLS (74%); ANIMATION (69%); ANIMATED FILMS (69%) Culture; Motion Pictures; Television; International Trade and World Market; Culture

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%) United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) Alan Riding

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (87%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (87%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



252 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1821 words

HEADLINE: First Comes the Baby Carriage 

BYLINE: By AMY HARMON

 BODY:
WHEN Diane Carr turned 37 with a compelling desire to have a baby and no true love to have one with, she began, gingerly, to explore the other option she had filed in the back of her mind. 
 Like other single women who have found themselves sifting through online profiles of anonymous sperm donors recently, Ms. Carr, a real estate broker in Atlanta, was quickly convinced that buying sperm was the easiest way to have a baby without a partner. She also concluded that it has quietly become a socially acceptable choice, if only because so many are making it.
Ms. Carr's hairdresser, it turned out, knew someone who had just conceived that way, as did one of her own clients. An Atlanta chapter of a national support group for ''single mothers by choice'' formed two years ago and had 26 members. 
 On the Internet, Ms. Carr discovered hundreds of pregnant single women trading notes. Some were arranging to send one another their leftover sperm.
 ''Five years ago you never heard about this,'' said Ms. Carr, who had the insemination procedure performed last month. ''Now you can talk about it, and it's O.K.'' 
 In her effort to become a lone parent, Ms. Carr has plenty of company. The support group she joined is 25 years old, but it has grown to 24 chapters around the country from 12 in the last three years. About three-quarters of its 4,000 members used sperm donors. Sperm banks, which once catered largely to infertile and lesbian couples, are seeing a surge in business from single women, as are obstetricians who perform artificial inseminations. 
 The groundswell of single women deliberately having babies reflects their increased ability to support a family. It helps, too, that the Internet has done away with the need to leave the house to find a donor. A woman can now select the father of her child from her living room and have his sperm sent directly to her doctor. It is faster and cheaper than adoption, and allows women to bear their own genetic offspring.
 Single women have always found adoption rules more restrictive than they are even for gay couples. Many hesitate to simply have a sexual fling or use a ''known donor'' for fear that the father may someday stake a claim to the child. But thousands are now gravitating to sperm bank Web sites, where donor profiles can be sorted by medical history, ethnic background and a wide range of physical characteristics. Like an online dating service where no one ever dates, written answers are given to questions like ''What is the funniest thing that ever happened to you?'' Some women screen for men with no cancer in their family. Some look for signs of high I.Q. Some search for a man who might have been their soul mate. Others are more pragmatic.
 ''You're paying for it, so you kind of want the best of the best,'' said Anna Aiello, 38, of Moriches, N.Y., on Long Island, the mother of 1-year-old twins, who saw her ability to select a 6-foot-2 blond, blue-eyed, genetic-disease-free donor as some consolation for not getting to fall in love with someone who would most likely have been more flawed. 
 Prices at sperm banks range from about $150 to $600 per vial, plus shipping. At some banks customers can pay extra for a donor's childhood photograph, or a tape recording of his voice. Fairfax Cryobank, one of the largest, charges more for donors who have doctorates. Single women, sperm banks say, are also driving demand for donors who agree to release their identity when children conceived with their sperm turn 18. 
 ''A lot of times couples feel, 'This is our family and we don't want any external information,''' said Holly Fowler, marketing director for Xytex Sperm Bank, where sales of sperm from ''ID release'' donors have jumped 20 percent since the option was introduced in 2002. ''But single mothers want their child to be able to have an understanding of where they came from.''
 Veteran ''choice moms'' say more single women are now trying to conceive in their mid-30's rather than waiting. Because they are starting before their fertility declines, they are having more success. Some are even having second children. 
 ''It's not necessarily Plan B anymore, it's just the plan,'' said Melissa Singer, 46, a member of Single Mothers by Choice, a national support group, who had a donor-inseminated daughter 10 years ago. ''It means there's a lot less desperation as a whole in the group.''
 When she was pregnant, she rarely told people how she had gotten that way, Ms. Singer said, because she did not want them to feel sorry for her. Other single women pretended to have had a chance sexual encounter. But the new wave of donor-inseminated mothers are not hiding; they are even portrayed on two new television shows, ''Misconceptions,'' a WB sitcom, and ''Inconceivable,'' an NBC drama.
 No one tracks the number of women who actively choose single motherhood, but their ranks, while still small, seem to be increasing quickly. According to 2004 census data, about 150,000 women with college degrees have children under 18, have never been married and are the only adult in their household, triple the number recorded in 1990. Family sociologists say women in that group are likely to be single by choice, not chance. 
 ''Women who order sperm are engaged in a kind of agency that is new and is gaining momentum,'' said Rosanna Hertz, a sociologist at Wellesley College who is working on a book called ''When Baby Makes Two.'' ''It's different from women who adopt, who are not breaking sexual norms.''
 Historically, far fewer women with high incomes and college educations have had children out of wedlock than those with less money and schooling. But some high-achieving women may be shifting their behavior based on the lessons of a generation that precedes them. 
 Professional women in their 50's regret not having had a child far more than not having gotten married, said Sylvia Ann Hewlett, an economist whose 2002 book ''Creating a Life: Professional Women and the Quest for Children'' found that more than a third of women with high-status jobs were childless at 40.
 ''When push came to shove, the child was more important than the partner,'' Ms. Hewlett said of the women she interviewed. ''It was an ever-present source of regret, where they were not so actively mourning the absence of a husband.''
 The boom in high-tech fertility treatments for women over 35 has raised women's awareness of the limitations both of their bodies and their demographic. But some women in their 30's who have seen friends divorced or in unhappy marriages say they are not willing to settle for ''Mr. Almost Right'' to have a baby. 
 Ms. Carr said she found herself waiting impatiently through the beginnings of relationships, acutely aware of her biological deadline. ''What a difference dating is when you don't need them for that,'' she said. Ms. Carr's mother was initially skeptical: ''It's not like a puppy; you can't give it back,'' Mary Gordon told her daughter, reminding Ms. Carr of the dog she had deposited at her parents' house after graduating from college.
 ''Mom,'' said Ms. Carr, who has long owned another dog, ''I have a home and two cars. I know what I'm doing.''
 Even so, the decision was bittersweet.
 ''I was so sad because I didn't want to have to do it this way,'' Ms. Carr said. ''But in the same breath I was so happy that I had the choice.'' 
 Many single women still find the choice to get pregnant met with incomprehension or even hostility from friends, family and some strangers. The most common accusation is that they are selfish, because of the widely held belief that two-parent homes are best for children.
 ''I had one psychologist friend actually suggest that I 'channel' my (neurotic?) need to parent into volunteer work in a children's hospital,'' wrote one mother on a support group Web site. ''Can you say 'condescending'??'' 
 Mothers who choose their solo status say the problems that have traditionally burdened families headed by a single mother -- poverty, abandonment by fathers, teenage motherhood, parental conflict -- do not apply to them. 
 But some suspect that what makes people uneasy is not so much their status as single mothers but that they achieved it by short-circuiting the traditional act of procreation. Experts on nontraditional families say the use of anonymous donors without a more conventional reason, like infertility or homosexuality, may seem more threatening to men's role in the family. 
 Dr. Hertz, the Wellesley sociologist, said that while nearly all the single-mothers-by-choice she studied actively tried to incorporate men into their children's lives, their presence was seen more as an enrichment activity, like piano lessons or summer camp, than a necessity.
 Some single mothers do relish their autonomy, which they say can more than compensate for not having a partner to help change the diapers. Every decision, from what to name their children to how to discipline them, is theirs to make without negotiation.
 ''Even though it's only you, it really is only you,'' said Stacia Snapp, 43, of Woodinville, Wash., a technical writer for Microsoft who had two children with her ex-husband and used a sperm donor to have two more on her own. ''It's really hard to balance when you have someone who disagrees with what you want to do. You're trying to be a good mom, you're trying to be a good wife, you don't feel understood by anybody.'' 
 Debra Taras, a psychologist in Philadelphia, would have liked to attempt that balance. But she was also acutely aware that she might not get the chance. ''I don't know a way to say this that doesn't sound conceited, but when you're at the top of your field, the pool of available men is pretty small,'' said Dr. Taras, who bought herself some sperm for her 35th birthday. ''You're looking to date an equal, and men are looking down, not across.''
 At the Northwest Andrology & Cryobank, Dr. Taras, who has a Ph.D., considered only donors with advanced degrees. Worried that a child who did not share her looks was more likely to be asked questions about an absent father, she eliminated blonds. To avoid a genetic mental illness that might not have surfaced yet in a younger man, she settled on a medical doctor in his mid-30's. 
 When her daughter, Olivia, cried much of the first few months, Dr. Taras's image of a blissful existence in a mother-daughter cocoon was hastily revised. She hired a live-in au pair and welcomed the attention of an older couple in her apartment building who have become Olivia's de facto godparents.
 Dr. Taras, who has her own practice, says the weight of knowing that there is no one to fall back on financially can be stressful. But she has never had regrets. Now 23 months, Olivia is a chatty toddler who loves the merry-go-round.
 ''I could not have imagined my life without being a mother,'' Dr. Taras said. ''This wasn't a hard decision for me. For me it was an absolute.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: HER WAY -- Debra Taras, a psychologist in Philadelphia, with her daughter, Olivia, 23 months. Dr. Taras selected specific traits she wanted from the father of her child from a sperm bank questionnaire. (Photo by Ryan Donnell for The New York Times)(pg. G1)
ALL IN A FAMILY -- Stacia Snapp with Cory and 4-year-old Niall. She used the same donor for both. (Photo by Kevin P. Casey for The New York Times)
 READY TO GO -- Diane Carr, left, 37 and single, has undergone insemination from a sperm bank. (Photo by Jessica McGowan for The New York Times)(pg. G2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPERM BANKS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (76%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); DATING SERVICES (72%); FAMILY LAW (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); ETHNICITY (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



253 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Mood Darkens On Rebuilding, A Poll Finds 

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Lower Manhattan residents have turned increasingly pessimistic about rebuilding efforts downtown, according to a new poll conducted for Pace University.
 Asked about the efforts, a little more than one-third of those surveyed from Sept. 25 to Oct. 4 answered that they were ''headed in the right direction.'' A year ago, about half did so. The number answering that efforts were ''off on the wrong track'' roughly doubled. 
Since the last Pace Poll in September 2004, demolition has lagged at the former Deutsche Bank building (though it has now begun), the Freedom Tower has been radically redesigned to account for the Police Department's security concerns and the International Freedom Center and the Drawing Center have been pushed out of the cultural building at the World Trade Center site.
 ''Residents' optimism regarding the rebuilding effort is fading fast,'' wrote Jonathan Trichter, director of the Pace Poll, and Chris Paige, the assistant director. The polling office is part of Pace University, which has a campus opposite City Hall Park.
 Of 518 Manhattan residents below 14th Street reached by telephone for the latest poll, 43 percent said rebuilding was going wrong and 36 percent that it was going right. Pessimists may not actually outnumber optimists, however, since the margin of sampling error was plus or minus 4 percentage points.
 Respondents identified the top problem in the rebuilding effort as ''too many people making decisions.'' In three previous Pace Polls, affordable housing and economic development were cited as the top issues.
 More than a quarter of the respondents said they would not be at all confident of their safety from terrorists if they were to work in the Freedom Tower. They were effectively split on their reaction to the tower's redesign.
 They divided evenly on whether they agreed with Gov. George E. Pataki's decision to remove the Freedom Center. And they were split on whether the relatives of 9/11 victims should have an ''unusually large role'' in making decisions at the site.
 A citywide New York Times poll in late August found 61 percent agreeing that ''there have been enough discussions about what should be done at ground zero and it is time to start developing that area.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POLICE FORCES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TERRORISM (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



254 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Top Advisory Panel Warns of an Erosion of the U.S. Competitive Edge in Science

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
A panel of experts convened by the National Academies, the nation's leading science advisory group, called yesterday for an urgent and wide-ranging effort to strengthen scientific competitiveness.
 The 20-member panel, reporting at the request of a bipartisan group in Congress, said that without such an effort the United States ''could soon lose its privileged position.'' It cited many examples of emerging scientific and industrial power abroad and listed 20 steps the United States should take to maintain its global lead.
 ''Decisive action is needed now,'' the report warned, adding that the nation's old advantages ''are eroding at a time when many other nations are gathering strength.'' 
 The proposed actions include creating scholarships to attract 10,000 top students a year to careers in teaching math and science, and 30,000 scholarships for college-level study of science, math and engineering; expanding the nation's investment in basic research by 10 percent a year for seven years; and making broadband access available nationwide at low cost.
 ''America must act now to preserve its strategic and economic security,'' the panel's chairman, Norman R. Augustine, retired chairman of Lockheed Martin, said in a statement. ''The building blocks of our economic leadership are wearing away. The challenges that America faces are immense.''
 The underlying goal, the panel said, is to create high-quality jobs by developing new industries and new sources of energy based on the bright ideas of scientists and engineers.
 The panel included Nobel laureates, university presidents, corporate chairmen and former presidential appointees. Their report, ''Rising Above the Gathering Storm,'' said the proposed actions would require changes of law and new or reallocated funds. A summary of the report and a list of the 20 members is online at www.nationalacademies.org.
 At a news conference in Washington, panel members estimated the cost of the new recommendations at $10 billion a year, a figure that may prove daunting to Congress in a time of tight budgets.
 Nevertheless, two senators who helped initiate the effort -- Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, and Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico -- praised its findings.
 ''This report shines a spotlight on the fact our country is losing its competitive edge,'' Mr. Bingaman said. ''Clearly there are steps we can take to regain our competitiveness, and the recommendations outlined in this comprehensive report give us a good place to start.''
 Increasingly, experts say, strides in Asia and Europe rival or exceed America's in critical areas of science and innovation, often with little public awareness of the trend or its implications for jobs, industry, national security or the vigor of the nation's intellectual and cultural life.
 The panel cited many examples:
 Last year, more than 600,000 engineers graduated from institutions of higher education in China, compared to 350,000 in India and 70,000 in the United States.
 Recently, American 12th graders performed below the international average for 21 countries on general knowledge in math and science.
 The cost of employing one chemist or engineer in the United States is equal to about five chemists in China and 11 engineers in India.
 Chemical companies last year shut 70 facilities in the United States and marked 40 for closure. Of 120 large chemical plants under construction globally, one is in the United States and 50 are in China.
 ''Thanks to globalization,'' the report said, ''workers in virtually every sector must now face competitors who live just a mouse-click away in Ireland, Finland, China, India or dozens of other nations whose economies are growing.''
 Its 20 recommendations doubled the number that lawmakers -- including Sherwood Boehlert, the New York Republican who is chairman of the House Science Committee, and Bart Gordon, a Tennessee Democrat also on the committee -- asked for nearly five months ago.
 To create a corps of 10,000 teachers annually, the report called for four-year scholarships, worth up to $20,000 a year, that would help top students obtain bachelor's degrees in science, engineering or math -- with parallel certification as K-12 math and science teachers. After graduation, the students would work for at least five years in public schools.
 Among the report's other recommendations were these:
 An Advanced Research Projects Agency modeled after the military's should be established in the Energy Department to sponsor novel research to meet the nation's long-term energy challenges.
 The nation's most outstanding early-career researchers should annually receive 200 new research grants -- worth $500,000 each, and payable over five years.
 International students in the United States who receive doctorates in science, technology, engineering or math should get automatic one-year visa extensions that allow them to seek employment here. If these students get job offers and pass a security screening test, they should automatically get work permits and expedited residence status. If they cannot get a job, their visas should expire.
 The Research and Experimentation Tax Credit, scheduled to expire in December, should be made permanent and expanded. It goes to companies that increase their spending on research and development above a certain level. 
 To encourage private investment in innovation, the panel said, the credit should increase from 20 percent to 40 percent of qualifying investments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BUDGETS (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); BROADBAND (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (55%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: LAMAR ALEXANDER (57%); JEFF BINGAMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



255 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: HOMECOMING; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: In Reopened Neighborhood, Reunions Laced With Loss

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
The couch was flipped upside down, the ceiling had fallen to the floor, and photographs of the children were swollen in mud-soaked frames that still clung to the walls of 5402 Urquhart Street.
 This was the initial glimpse Zethelda Veal and her relatives had of their home in the Lower Ninth Ward, where some of the poorest residents of New Orleans were allowed to return Wednesday for the first time since Hurricane Katrina and floods devastated their neighborhood.
It is the last of the city's neighborhoods to be officially opened in what is called a ''look and leave'' policy. On Wednesday, the streets came to life with hundreds of returning residents who drove down the narrow broken streets, mostly to find their homes uninhabitable and little to salvage. 
 Neighbors who had not seen one another since evacuating in August embraced. People circled slowly in their cars, gliding open-mouthed past the destruction -- roofs on the ground, cars upended. There was a sense of community in the adversity as they shared plastic gloves and masks. Two women jumped into a car, shouting to their companions that they were going to look at a house that had been totally uprooted. 
 National Guard Humvees and police cars circulated. Helicopters flew overhead, and chaplains worked the streets, asking people if they wanted to pray.
 Ms. Veal and her family were among the first to enter the neighborhood in the morning, driving up to the one-story house they had rented. They donned surgical masks and protective gloves. Then they tried the front-door key, but the dirt-caked door was wedged tight in its warped threshold.
 So they broke in, slamming a steel pole repeatedly through the front entrance. When the door splintered, a choking whiff of rot and a cloud of small flying insects were expelled from the mud-caked interior.
 And as they peered into the darkened house, Ms. Veal and her family, like others who returned, began a dialogue of dispossession: of their livelihoods, their loved ones and of the objects that once grounded their memories but now were gone.
 ''My baby's pictures are still up!'' said Ms. Veal, a 41-year-old single mother of three.
 ''Them pictures is mildewed,'' said her 69-year-old father, Samuel Alexander.
 ''The sofa is upside down,'' said Angela Hale, 40, another of Mr. Alexander's daughters.
 ''The whole ceiling caved in!'' Ms. Veal said.
 ''And the water was way up there?'' she asked incredulously, as they all gathered in the threshold, craning their necks to see the watermark near the ceiling.
 From the outside of the wood-sided house, they all then looked through a broken window into the kitchen. ''Ain't no more gumbo getting cooked up in there,'' said Ricky Hale, Angela's husband, as they peered at the destroyed interior of the kitchen. ''Ain't no more Christmas dinner.''
 Half of the neighborhood, one of the worst hit in the storm, is still closed off. National Guard units turned away residents trying to enter the northern sector, where engineers had just finished pumping the water from streets. There, houses have been thrown from foundations, cars lifted by floodwaters onto the top of fences and trees felled.
 In the rest of the Lower Ninth Ward, the American Red Cross and relief workers handed out Gatorade and snacks to returning residents. Chaplains working with the Salvation Army offered comfort. Two young men found the body of a relative and called the authorities. The corpse was put in a black body bag and carried from the house, said Chaplain Rick Derby.
 Stan Florez, another chaplain, offered to pray with a family trying to break into their house. ''They are all really in a delayed denial,'' Mr. Florez said. ''They are being as strong as they can be. Some are crying.''
 It is unclear what will become of so many houses riddled with mold, caked with mud and rendered uninhabitable.
 ''We will have to build a plan from the bottom up,'' said Cynthia Willard-Lewis, a City Council member whose district includes the Lower Ninth Ward.
 Ms. Veal had lived in the house on Urquhart Street with her mother, Sadie Veal; her father, Mr. Alexander; and her three children, paying the $350 monthly rent with her $9.25 hourly wage driving a tow truck. Mr. Alexander sometimes pitched in with a little money he made at a newsstand.
 But they found nothing to salvage. Not even the gleaming trophies Ms. Veal's daughter had won in volleyball, or Sadie Veal's old photographs of her parents in 1912.
 But Mr. Alexander got what he came for: plastic bags half-filled with small change -- mostly pennies, nickels and dimes.
 ''They are a little brown,'' he said, pouring the coins into a plastic bucket and adding water and bleach. ''But they'll spend.''
 Ms. Veal and her relatives have settled in a shelter. Mr. Hale has lost his job as a mechanic and filed for unemployment.
 The Hales and their three children had a house in the part of the Lower Ninth Ward that is still sealed off. As they got ready to leave with nothing but Mr. Alexander's coins, Mr. Hale was asked what he expected to find at his own home. ''Worse,'' he said.
 As the day wore on, cars lined up at the bridge that leads into the Lower Ninth Ward. Guardsmen at the checkpoint said they were not keeping count of the people coming in to the opened area, which has about 2,000 residents.
 Some are homeowners and renters, some with insurance and some without.
 Not far from the Veals, Walter Claiburne, his high-top rubber boots caked with black mud from his living room, stood on his front porch at 1335 Flood Street. He laughed derisively at his address.
 ''We went through this before, in 1965 with Hurricane Betsy, but not to this extent,'' Mr. Claiburne said, picking through sodden checkbooks in a locked safe box. Some jewelry was all he would recover, along with a plastic framed photograph of his wife, Cookie.
 ''You work all your life for a little something, and then overnight it's taken away,'' he said.
 ''In the blink of an eye,'' his childhood friend and neighbor, Donald Hilliard, murmured as he watched.
 Unlike Mr. Claiburne, who was trying to renew his homeowner's insurance policy before the storm hit, three members of the Hagan family across the street sat in their debris-ridden yard, awaiting an assessor.
 Like others in this tight-knit neighborhood, the Hagans' extended family lived close, with 16 family members -- three generations -- in three houses. All were now unlivable, their walls torn and their roofs ripped.
 ''We had said whoever's house was best, we would all stay in that one,'' said Brenda Hagan, 50, as she sat in her yard. ''But nothing, none of them. Nothing to salvage.''
 ''We have our life,'' Shirley Martinez, a 74-year-old aunt, said quietly. ''Our lives were spared.''
 Joyce Hagan, the family's 73-year old matriarch, had wanted to salvage one thing: a photograph of her husband, Albert, who died when she was 30. She never found it in the mud and debris that had been sucked into her home with the storm.
 ''That one washed away,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Samuel Alexander examined his house in the Lower Ninth Ward for the first time since Hurricane Katrina. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); HURRICANES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); HELICOPTERS (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



256 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Former Chief Executive of Refco Is Charged With Securities Fraud
The former chairman and chief executive of Refco, one of the world's largest commodities brokerage firms, has been charged with securities fraud, accused of hiding $435 million in the months before the company was taken public. The executive, Phillip R. Bennett, 57, of Gladstone, N.J., was arrested Tuesday night and charged in a criminal complaint yesterday by federal prosecutors in Manhattan. [Page C1.]

Apple Unveils a Video-Playing IPod
Apple Computer introduced an iPod that can play video -- along with an online shop to fill it with television shows, short films and music videos. [C1.]

Toy Industry Moves Into Consumer Electronics
Having failed to beat the electronics industry, the toy business will join it in a big way this Christmas, offering everything from cellphones for 6-year-olds to video projectors for 8-year-olds in an effort to hold on to children who are casting aside Lego and G.I. Joe to play with their parents' gadgets. [C1.]

Google and Comcast May Seek to Buy Part of AOL
Google and Comcast are in talks with Time Warner to buy a portion of America Online, according to several people with knowledge of the negotiations. The joint bid was widely seen as a way to head off Microsoft, which has also been negotiating to buy a minority stake in AOL. [C1.]

British Court Upholds One of Pfizer's Lipitor Patents
A British court provided a mixed verdict for Pfizer on a crucial patent dispute, upholding one of the company's patents on Lipitor, its best-selling cholesterol-lowering medicine, but invalidating a second one. Shares of Pfizer, the world's biggest drug company, closed up more than 2 percent in the United States after the verdict was announced. Still, they are trading near an eight-year low, in part because of investors' concerns about a related Lipitor patent challenge in the United States, a far larger market. Market Place [C3.]

Trade Negotiators to Meet Again Next Week
Trade ministers ended three days of talks aimed at overhauling farm subsidies and import tariffs without reaching a deal, but they agreed to meet again next week. [C4.]

Automakers' Sales Are Soaring in Russia
With revenues from Russia's oil exports pulsing through the economy, car sales in the country have surged, benefiting global automakers. [C4.]

Major U.S. Stock Gauges End the Day Lower
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 36.26 points, to 10,216.91. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 7.19 points, to 1,177.68, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 23.62 points, or 1.15 percent, to 2,037.4. [C11.]

U.S. Regulators Approve Sale of Flu Vaccine
Federal drug regulators announced that they had approved for sale about 1.5 million doses of flu vaccines from Chiron, raising hopes that there will be ample vaccine supplies this flu season. [A16.]

Amtrak Board Approves Separate Unit for Northeast
The Amtrak board has approved an essential step in the Bush administration plan to break up the railroad, voting to carve out the Northeast Corridor, the tracks between Boston and Washington, as a separate division. [A14.]

Charges Are Dropped Against Former Broker
The New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, dropped criminal charges against a former broker at Bank of America, Theodore C. Sihpol III, left, whom he had accused of helping a hedge fund trade mutual funds illegally. Earlier in the day, Mr. Sihpol agreed to a $200,000 fine and a five-year ban from the securities industry to resolve related fraud charges by the Securities and Exchange Commission. He neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing. [C3.]

Northwest Seeks Approval to Void Labor Pacts
Northwest Airlines said that it had asked a bankruptcy judge for permission to void its labor contracts if its employee unions do not agree to concessions worth $1.4 billion a year. [C5.]

Ad Campaign Promotes What Is Hard to Say
Grand Marnier has introduced an advertising campaign this fall to sell its $225-a-bottle vintage liqueur, Cuvee du Cent Cinquantenaire. The fact that the name of the liqueur is hard to pronounce is part of the marketing. [C3.]

Makers of Tablet PC's Go After the Masses
Tablet PC's, with and without pens, have taken hold in some segments like education and health care, and computer makers continue to introduce models with features aimed at general consumers, professionals and management-level business users. Circuits. [C7.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Pfizer shares since July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (87%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (86%); PATENT LAW (86%); PATENTS (86%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); VERDICTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (75%); CHILDREN (75%); FILM (75%); TOYS & GAMES (74%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (74%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (69%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (68%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (67%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); ANTIVIRALS (63%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (61%); APPROVALS (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (55%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); VACCINES (50%); CHOLESTEROL (50%); INFLUENZA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (83%); AOL INC (69%); GOOGLE INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (83%); PFEB (BRU) (83%); PFE (NYSE) (83%); AOL (NYSE) (69%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (83%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



257 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Gulf Coast: A Vision To Revive, Not Repeat 

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

DATELINE: BILOXI, Miss., Oct. 12 

 BODY:
The work facing architects and urban planners who convened here today at a battered resort is visible right outside the window. A beach strewn with uprooted trees and the detritus of ravaged buildings. Deserted streets lined by flooded empty houses. Hulking casino hotels gone dark.
 Over the next several days, this group of some 200 professionals from around the country will struggle to come up with a comprehensive regional plan to rebuild the Mississippi Gulf Coast. It's a design challenge on a grand scale, covering 11 communities in 3 Mississippi counties damaged by Hurricane Katrina. 
On Wednesday, the opening day, many participants suggested that while they intended to respect the local character, they did not hope to replicate what existed before the hurricane.
 ''People know that this took a wrong turn somewhere,'' said Andres Duany, the Miami architect and planner leading the forum. ''People know this has become honky-tonk, and this is the chance to get it right.''
 ''This place has lost its neighborhood structure over the last 50 years,'' he continued. ''This is a chance to rezone it in a much finer grain, so people can walk to the corner store, kids can walk to school.''
 To residents, such conferences often seem like pie in the sky -- a bunch of fancy outsiders who gather to brainstorm and then leave impossible building plans behind. But this particular group has been empowered by the governor, Haley Barbour, himself, and includes many local architects and planners. The conference, the Mississippi Renewal Forum, is part of a broader effort on recovery and renewal that Mr. Barbour has commissioned. A report to the governor with broad recommendations is due by Dec. 31.
 ''The commission's role is advisory; it has no authority to impose any decision on any subject on anybody,'' Governor Barbour said in a speech yesterday. He called the forum an ''inclusive, collaborative, participatory effort that arms the ultimate decision makers.''
 In addition to design sessions and planning talks, the participants will tour the areas affected by the storm and meet with local officials.
 The chairman of the commission, Jim Barksdale, a former chief executive of Netscape Communications, said the priority should be low-income housing. ''Rich people take care of themselves,'' he remarked. 
 Among the other issues being considered here this week are how to integrate the behemoth casinos that line the coast with the neighborhoods they share; how to create small-scale, high-density streets so that poor people with limited access to cars can meet their daily needs; and how to build hurricane-resistant structures that are not prohibitively expensive. 
 It is important to move quickly, Mr. Duany said, or mediocrity and homogenization will fill the void. ''Things are urgent,'' he said, adding, ''If we don't start now, it starts happening.''
 The rebuilding effort is already under way haphazardly -- casinos have started trying to reconstruct their damaged walls, and people are moving into makeshift mobile homes. The conference is seeking to come up with building codes that will ensure high-quality, well-conceived construction for the long term.
 These might include, for example, plans for preapproved mobile homes that are ''well designed, so they don't become blight,'' Mr. Duany said. The conference will consider questions of transit -- a railroad that runs the length of the coast is a subject of keen debate -- and where civic institutions should be located. 
 Details matter, the planners say, like parking, setbacks and trees. ''There are the kind of trees that support retail,'' Mr. Duany said. ''You plant the wrong tree, people won't shop, because it blocks the signage.''
 Preparing the Gulf Coast to weather possible future natural disasters is another tall order. ''To what extent do you create a kind of gold-plated standard that is resistant to hurricanes but unaffordable?'' Mr. Duany asked. ''When you raise a whole town on stilts, how does anyone get up there when they're older and in a wheel chair?''
 Then there is the matter of the casinos, a crucial economic engine yet a source of neighborhood emptiness. ''The casinos are monsters,'' Mr. Duany said. ''We want to integrate them better into the urban and social fabric, so they provide vitality to the downtowns. 
 ''There is a dead void around them,'' he continued. ''They are like atomic power plants. No one wants to live around them.''
 Because the recovery project in Mississippi is so extensive, Mr. Duany reached out to like-minded members of the Congress for the New Urbanism, a nonprofit organization that works to create compact, diverse, pedestrian-friendly neighborhoods and move away from sprawl.
 Mr. Duany's Miami-based firm, Duany Plater-Zyberk & Company, has designed several communities, including Lost Rabbit, near Jackson, Miss., whose master plan specifies various historical styles for housing: French Colonial, Greek Revival, Mississippi Federal. 
 For some architects and planners, talk of new urbanism can raise apprehension that a rigidly prescribed mix of housing, stores and open squares will snuff out the individuality of various communities. 
 But participants interviewed on Wednesday said they had no interest in obliterating the indigenous aesthetic of the Gulf Coast. 
 ''Our office is deeply interested in architecture that makes places unique,'' said Michael G. Imber, an architect from San Antonio. ''How can we capture that and carry forward into the future? It's difficult.'' 
 ''The cities now run one into the next,'' he said. ''You don't realize when you pass from Gulfport into Biloxi, yet they are distinct cultures.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ZONING (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); WEATHER (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm) ; Architecture; Area Planning and Renewal; Conventions and Conferences 

PERSON: HALEY BARBOUR (89%) Haley (Gov) Barbour; Robin Pogrebin

GEOGRAPHIC: BILOXI, MS, USA (92%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Biloxi (Miss); Gulf of Mexico; Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



258 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Vows a Bigger Role in Rebuilding at Ground Zero

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL and JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg promised yesterday to increase his involvement in rebuilding efforts at ground zero as part of a detailed new economic development program, indicating that in a second term he would seek to play a bigger role in a politically volatile project whose planning has been largely controlled by Gov. George E. Pataki.
 His opponent in the mayoral race, Fernando Ferrer, made campaign appearances over the last two days accompanied by former Senator John Edwards, part of an effort to give his campaign national support, in the face of polls suggesting increasing difficulties for Mr. Ferrer.
 Mr. Bloomberg discussed his intention to be more involved with Lower Manhattan redevelopment as he announced campaign promises that he said would result in 250,000 new jobs over five years, nearly four times the number created during his first term. As part of that, he pledged to attend to two of the biggest pieces of unfinished business from his first term: bringing grand projects to Governors Island and the West Side of Manhattan. 
 The mayor has often been criticized for focusing too much on West Side development, particularly the plan for a football and Olympic stadium, at the expense of pushing rebuilding efforts for ground zero and Lower Manhattan. Yesterday, he said that ''as long as the World Trade Center site is incomplete, our job will not be done.''
 Mr. Bloomberg suggested that the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the site, could set an example for city businesses by putting its headquarters there. Saying the Freedom Tower and other buildings at the site should get started, he said, ''Current projections show the site not being built out until 2015, and that's just too long.''
 Mr. Bloomberg defended the slow pace of downtown development even as he said he wanted to get things moving faster there.
 ''Look, the governor, I've always believed, is doing a great job,'' he said. ''I don't think anybody appreciates the complexity of doing things there.'' 
 Since new subway, ferry and PATH terminals are well along, he said, ''I think it's getting to the point now where the city just has more of an interest and can have more to do.'' He added, ''We've got some of the projects going and this is the time for us to work, continue to work, with the governor, with the Port.''
 Though his proposals were relatively modest, his speech gave some of the first specific indications of his plans for a second term. It also seemed aimed at quieting Mr. Ferrer's criticism that he has largely ignored the needs of poor, black and Latino New Yorkers. 
 In addition to proposing a new high school in Queens that would focus on ''work readiness,'' Mr. Bloomberg suggested a program to increase employment in neighborhoods that have high rates of joblessness. He also introduced a plan to help small businesses navigate the city bureaucracy through his 311 telephone help line and the Internet. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's detailed proposals, delivered at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, which now houses 200 businesses, are an indication of the mayoral ability to upstage Mr. Ferrer. He also used the occasion to criticize Mr. Ferrer directly, saying, ''My opponent likes to talk about problems; I like to talk about solutions.''
 Jen Bluestein, Mr. Ferrer's chief spokeswoman, called the proposal a ''laundry list of 11th-hour plans'' and shot back: ''Mike Bloomberg promised stadiums and Olympics, but couldn't deliver. Now he's promising New Yorkers the world in a last-ditch effort to hold on to power. New Yorkers know they need leadership with a real track record of supporting small businesses, building affordable housing and working to ensure our kids get the quality education they deserve.''
 Also yesterday, three groups that advocate regulation of public finance -- the New York Public Interest Research Group, Citizens Union and Common Cause/NY -- called on the mayor to slow his lavish campaign spending. Mr. Bloomberg's campaign said it would not. The mayor is outspending Mr. Ferrer by seven to one, according to campaign spending records. 
 Two new polls suggest that Mr. Ferrer is losing ground against Mr. Bloomberg, a development that could further slow his fund-raising. 
 A survey released yesterday by Quinnipiac University found that Mr. Bloomberg led Mr. Ferrer 60 percent to 32 percent, up from 52 to 38 in September. That poll, which has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage points, also suggested that Mr. Bloomberg's standing improved significantly after his announcement of the subway terror threat.
 The poll came a day after a Marist College survey showed a similar shift, but Mr. Ferrer dismissed the findings, saying, ''These are the same polls that predicted that I couldn't win the Democratic primary?''
 Still, Mr. Ferrer has found himself badly outgunned by Mr. Bloomberg on several fronts, and the visit by Mr. Edwards was intended to counter that shift. Like Mr. Ferrer, he is the product of a modest background and he ran a vigorous presidential primary campaign on the theme of the two Americas, much like Mr. Ferrer's 2001 campaign theme of the economic disparity of the two New Yorks.
 Mr. Edwards, who became the Democratic vice presidential nominee, delivered a rousing speech on Tuesday before delegates of 1199 S.E.I.U., the powerful health care workers' union, that cast the campaign as part of a national movement aimed at expanding economic opportunities for the poor and the working class.
 ''It makes our country better and stronger when we lift up and empower those who are struggling every single day,'' Mr. Edwards said, tying his remarks to the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina and calling the organized labor movement one of the most powerful antipoverty programs in history. ''Nobody understands that better than Freddy Ferrer, right? He has lived it his entire life.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In top photo, Fernando Ferrer, right, campaigning yesterday with former Senator John Edwards, second from left. Above, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announcing the settlement of sanitation contract talks. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); CITY LIFE (69%); PORT AUTHORITIES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



259 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: Optimism's the Point, Not Excess Baggage

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
AT twilight on the last day of the spring 2006 collections here, a sideshow nearly upstaged the runway presentations of Valentino, Saint Laurent and all the other famous Paris houses. It was the opening party for a Louis Vuitton store, the largest in the world. So many celebrities were invited, including several whose trips from abroad had been paid for by the brand, that face books were distributed to photographers along the red carpet so they would know who was the actress Emmanuelle Seigner, and who was the designer Jade Jagger.
 Uma Thurman, who appears in handbag ads for Vuitton, held an impromptu press conference outside the store. Sharon Stone arrived in a tall black hat and dark sunglasses and cut a symbolic ribbon. Karl Lagerfeld alighted from a Hummer and looked around for 10 minutes before leaving, just as Winona Ryder arrived, asking a handler, ''Do I have lipstick on my teeth?''
When the Vuitton ready-to-wear show started a short time later on Sunday evening at the Petit Palais, the clothes almost seemed an afterthought. It was the handbags, not the ornamented poncho dresses and embroidered tops that Yves Carcelle, the president of Louis Vuitton, pointed out to the actress Salma Hayek as the models walked by. 
 Louis Vuitton is the money tree for LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the multibrand conglomerate that is world's leading maker of luxury goods. Within Vuitton, handbags and other leather accessories are king, the driving source of its estimated $3.72 billion a year in global sales, roughly a quarter of LVMH's overall businesses. The painted handbag collection created by the Japanese artist Takashi Murakami alone has been estimated to have annual sales of $300 million.
 Even as retailers in the United States fear a slowdown this holiday season because of high energy prices and declining consumer confidence, luxury merchants hope to keep the money flowing by stimulating the desire of affluent consumers, especially for accessories. No expense was spared to promote the opening of this latest temple of luxury, roughly 20,000 square feet on the Champs- Elysees built around a soaring cylindrical atrium. The number floating around the store among guests that night for the cost of the two-year renovation and the two-day opening festivities topped $50 million,
 But in that atrium, where 2,000 sharpened steel rods dangle 65 feet above the floor, some might have perceived a metaphor for the precariousness of selling luxury goods. It could all come crashing down. Although LVMH reported a healthy profit of $719 million for the first half of 2005 (up 19 percent over the first half of 2004), some of the same specters that hobbled it after 9/11 -- fear of terrorism and war, and a weakening global economy, which dampen international tourism, critical to the success of luxury brands -- seem to be growing. 
 Bernard Arnault, the chairman of LVMH, is bullish on the Champs-Elysees location, so much so that he predicted it will be making money within a month, and some luxury analysts support him. 
 ''I don't think that large stores are the answer any longer for image purposes,'' said Claudia D'Arpizio, a partner in the luxury goods division of the consulting firm Bain & Company. ''Their profitability becomes too much of a question. But Louis Vuitton can manage to have this as their mother store and be profitable, if not at least break even.''
 Profitability for such retail behemoths, on the world's most expensive boulevards, is actually an anomaly, analysts say; many flagships are run as loss leaders, meant to enhance the image of a brand and to drive sales of perfume and accessories through other channels. LVMH rivals like the Prada Group and to a lesser extent PPR, which owns Gucci, have scaled back their retail developments in recent years in international markets where tourism and the dollar are weak. 
 Prada, for example, sold a property in downtown San Francisco this year where it planned to open a mega-store. But the Vuitton store in Paris -- actually, a remodeling and expansion that doubled the space of an existing outlet -- may be the exception to the rule. 
 Mr. Arnault described the latest of Vuitton's free-standing outlets as more than a store, calling it a ''symbol of France'' with its potential for profit linked to a national heritage of fine craftsmanship. 
 Louis Vuitton, founded in 1854 as a luggage maker, ascended to the throne of luxury brands only in the past decade, largely as a result of the creative efforts of its artistic director, Marc Jacobs, who was hired in 1997 to design a ready-to-wear collection. The fashion industry perceived a creatively daring appointment but hardly one that would reap such outsize rewards. Mr. Jacobs was much admired in New York by the cognoscenti, but in 20 years he had never had great commercial success. 
 The turning point came when he reinvented Louis Vuitton's logo handbag, slightly twisting the house's archival monogram and Damier check and floral patterns into novel new ''it bags'' of each season. He invited other designers and artists to collaborate, resulting in graffiti-painted hand bags by Stephen Sprouse and the rainbow logos of Mr. Murakami that were instant financial hits, spawning whole industries for copycats and knockoffs.
 ''What they did to reinvent the Louis Vuitton brand over the past decade is marketing 101,'' said Carol Brodie, an executive at CurtCo Media, which publishes The Robb Report. ''They started out with a very smart advertising campaign, getting the design world and celebrities to endorse the product, hiring Marc Jacobs as the designer and using Jennifer Lopez and Uma Thurman in advertising. What they also have done is successfully appeal to every aspect of the marketplace that can afford their product.''
 With basic handbags in several varieties that range from $500 to $1,500, Vuitton can reach women of moderate incomes who will forego other luxuries to buy a bag and also rich customers willing to spend up to $4,000 for more extravagant bags offered each season. ''They've reached everybody,'' Ms. Brodie said.
 Mr. Jacobs tied his own fortunes to the brand, once threatening to leave until LVMH agreed to give him greater control and to invest more money in his own signature label, which is now thriving. As a result both Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Arnault have done extremely well by each other -- the profit margins for Louis Vuitton are about 45 percent -- but maintaining Vuitton's position at the top of the luxury heap requires a constant game of ''Can you top this?'' It plays out in design, promotion and events such as the Champs-Elysees opening, a veritable three-ring circus.
 On Sunday, while the conceptual artist Vanessa Beecroft was photographing half-naked models in one room, Ms. Stone was talking in another about her new contract to become the face of a skin cream for Christian Dior, another LVMH brand. Someone reminded her of her portrayal in ''Catwoman'' as the aging face of a cosmetics empire that makes a cream that, if not used regularly, leads to paralyzing disfigurement. ''Hopefully this time I won't fall down and my face won't break off,'' Ms. Stone said.
 Also to celebrate the new store, 50 top Louis Vuitton customers from the United States were invited to pay their way to Paris and be among the first to preview the store, with a handful of limited-edition products like a $3,598 pair of crocodile wingtips, miniature versions of its ''Speedy'' and ''Alma'' handbags that can be worn as charms, and a $41,982 watch with backlit diamonds in the shape of the Eiffel Tower.
 LVMH's confidence in the future of the luxury business -- and the possibilities for tourists to acquire monogrammed LV handbags in denim, rainbow-painted leather and exotic skin varieties -- is reflected in the very architecture of the Louis Vuitton store, with a spiraling floor plan that approximates the mathematical symbol for infinity. 
 As magazine editors and dignitaries toured the store, Jean-Marc Gallot, the president of Louis Vuitton's American division, lead the way, repeating a refrain: First you buy a bag, then you buy something from ready-to-wear, and then you will need another bag. An entire room was stocked the next logical purchase: suitcases for tourists to carry home their new belongings.
 Ms. D'Arpizio of Bain & Company said that estimates among analysts put the Champs-Elysees turnover at $72 million to $84 million annually prior to the renovation. An article in Women's Wear Daily this week estimated the volume could reach $90 million to $114 million.
 The Paris location is also unique in that its success will likely be linked to the rate of the city's tourism, which in recent years has been hindered by threats of terrorism, exchange rates and other economic factors. ''Paris needs to recover, in particular with Asian tourists, whose numbers have been reduced a lot in the past year,'' Ms. D'Arpizio said. ''Local customers make up a bigger share of the market in areas like Japan and the United States. The incidence of United States shoppers in United States stores is 60 to 70 percent. In Paris, that could be 10 to 20 percent. It's a really volatile business.''
 Consumers are also adapting their shopping patterns, spending more on expensive goods other than clothes and accessories, and buying from a variety of sources that sell a lower-priced version of luxury, regardless of a heritage of quality. 
 But Mr. Arnault, the LVMH chief, waved away this and all other concerns at a press conference Monday morning in a grand salon of the George V, a hotel a couple of blocks away from the Champs-Elysees store. Asked by a reporter how much the renovation and the opening ceremonies had cost, Mr. Arnault said airily, ''We are here to dream, not to talk about figures.'' 
 LVMH executives and guests alongside him laughed, and an English translator, with a strangely fey voice, sniggered. Such impertinence, his reaction seemed to suggest. As if anyone might doubt the notion of spending baskets of money on the image of luxury.


GRAPHIC: Photos: STARS ALIGN -- Uma Thurman, with Yves Carcelle, above, president of Louis Vuitton, at the opening of the Vuitton store in Paris. At right, Vuitton bags stacked to resemble the Eiffel Tower. (Photographs by Stuart Isett for The New York Times)(pg. G1)
ON LOCATION -- Sharon Stone, above, was among those attending the opening of Louis Vuitton's store on the Champs-Elysees this week. (Photo by Stuart Isett for The New York Times
 below left, Victor Tonelli/Reuters)(pg. G6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); LUGGAGE MFG (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); READY TO WEAR (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); BRANDING (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); SALES FIGURES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (67%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (62%); TERRORISM (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (96%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (96%); LVMH (BIT) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (96%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (96%)

PERSON: BERNARD ARNAULT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



260 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Ford to Offer No-Interest Loans

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company said on Wednesday that it was offering consumers interest-free loans for six years in a effort to clear out inventories of some of its sport utility vehicles from the 2005 model year.
 American sales of most of the trucks included in the promotion fell more than 50 percent in September, compared with the same month a year earlier, as industrywide sales of S.U.V.'s were hurt by high fuel prices and a shift from vehicles with low fuel economy. 
 Through October, the 72-month loans are offered on the Ford Expedition, Explorer, Lincoln Aviator and Mercury Mountaineer S.U.V.'s, and the Ford F-150 pickup.
 Rebates on the S.U.V.'s now total $5,000, and $3,000 on the F-150. Ford said buyers would have to choose either the rebate or the loan deal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PICKUP TRUCKS (87%) 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



261 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Harley-Davidson Quarterly Earnings Up 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
Harley-Davidson Inc. said Wednesday that its third-quarter profit rose nearly 16 percent, citing robust motorcycle shipments worldwide. 
 The results beat analysts' average forecast, and Harley-Davidson's stock rose $1.30, or 2.8 percent, to close at $46.90 a share. 
 Earnings rose to $265 million, or 96 cents a share, from $229 million, or 77 cents a share, a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call expected the company to earn 90 cents a share.
 Revenue increased 10 percent, to $1.43 billion from $1.3 billion a year earlier, driven by double-digit sales growth in the United States, Europe and Japan. Global wholesale motorcycle shipments rose 8.7 percent, to 87,585 units. 
 But the company lowered the bottom range on its long-term shipments forecast on worries about rising fuel costs and consumer confidence. 
 Harley-Davidson also said it was widening its long-term forecast for wholesale unit growth to a range of 5 percent to 9 percent annually from a range of 7 to 9 percent. 
 Harley-Davidson forecast that it would ship 348,000 to 352,000 motorcycles next year. 
 The company said worldwide retail sales rose 12.1 percent in the third quarter, to 82,368 motorcycles, from the year-earlier period. Sales grew 12.1 percent in the United States, 11.5 percent in Europe and 13.1 percent in Japan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MOTORCYCLES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SHIPMENTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%) 

COMPANY: HARLEY-DAVIDSON INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Harley-Davidson Inc

TICKER: HOG (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); JAPAN (86%); EUROPE (86%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



262 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Why the Tepid Response to Higher Gasoline Prices?

BYLINE: By Alan B. Krueger. 
Alan B. Krueger (www.krueger.princeton.edu) is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University.

 BODY:
AMERICANS consume 45 percent of all gasoline produced worldwide. Our appetite for gasoline leads to dependence on Mideast suppliers and contributes to greenhouse gases, creating risks for national security and the environment. 
 Some have seen a silver lining in the sharp rise in gasoline prices in recent years: higher prices should lead Americans to conserve. This is just a simple application of the law of demand. An increase in the price of a good usually leads consumers to buy less of it. 
When it comes to gasoline, however, there are reasons to be pessimistic that the higher prices we have seen lately will have much effect, particularly in the near term. 
 Research shows that in the short run -- over a year, say -- the response to higher gasoline prices is weak. Most studies find that a 10 percent increase in gas prices in a year is associated with a 1 to 2 percent drop in the quantity of gasoline purchased in that year. 
 Recent experience suggests a more muted response. From September 2004 to September 2005, the average retail gasoline price jumped to $2.90 a gallon from $1.87, or 55 percent, according to the Energy Information Agency. Yet gasoline consumption dropped only 3.5 percent, to 8.83 million barrels a day in September 2005 from 9.15 million barrels a day in September 2004 -- and these figures may overstate the drop because the Energy Department measures gasoline distribution before it reaches the retailer, and retailers may have used more of their inventories when Katrina disrupted the supply chain. Regardless, past estimates would have predicted a larger drop of 5.5 to 11 percent. 
 In the short run, some people drive less when gas prices rise or they buy a more fuel-efficient car, but most do not change their lifestyle and just complain about prices. 
 Over a longer period, a bigger response is expected as additional people replace their cars with more fuel-efficient models. 
 Estimates of the long-run response to past movements in prices imply that a 10 percent price rise causes 5 to 10 percent less consumption, other things being equal. 
 This points to a recent puzzle. The nationwide average price of gasoline surged 53 percent from 1998 to 2004, after adjusting for inflation. Yet consumption was up 10 percent in this period. Conventional wisdom would have predicted the price rise, which was mainly a result of external factors, to cause a 26.5 to 53 percent drop in gas consumption. 
 Of course, many other things changed in this period. Perhaps most important, the real gross domestic product grew by 19 percent from 1998 to 2004. This would ordinarily be expected to push gasoline sales up about 20 percent, which is not enough to overwhelm the anticipated drop caused by higher prices. 
 Three factors might explain this puzzle. 
 First, many consumers probably viewed recent price increases as temporary. If the price jumps today but is expected to return to normal tomorrow, there is little reason to buy a more fuel-efficient car. In the 1980's and 1990's, most gas price increases did not last. By my calculation, about half of all price gyrations were eroded within four years. 
 Second, Pinelopi Goldberg of Yale says car companies often cut prices of large cars when gas prices rise. Third, new research by Kenneth Small and Kurt Van Dender of the University of California, Irvine, suggests that consumers responded less to price increases in the late 1990's than previously because income growth meant spending on gasoline had become a smaller share of the cost of driving.
 A change in the way people respond to gas prices affects policy. A 2003 study by the Congressional Budget Office considered two ways to reduce gas consumption by 10 percent: a 46-cent increase in the gas tax and stricter average fuel economy standards, which penalize automakers if their fleet fails to achieve a specified number of miles per gallon. The study found that the tax cut consumption at a slightly lower cost to society. 
 But if consumers cut consumption less in response to higher gasoline costs than they used to, the balance would tilt more toward stricter mileage standards for automakers. 
 In August, Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta made a step in this direction by proposing stricter standards on S.U.V.'s, pickup trucks and minivans. 
 He could curb gasoline use further and close a loophole by placing miles-per-gallon standards on vehicles that weigh 8,500 to 10,000 pounds when loaded, like the Hummer H2. Of course, a gas tax has an advantage over fuel efficiency standards: it raises revenue, and even more so if demand is less responsive to gas costs. A higher gas tax would also immediately affect drivers of existing cars and afford flexibility, whereas stricter mileage standards would affect only new cars and would rigidly apply to all carmakers. 
 But tougher fuel efficiency standards and a gasoline tax increase are not mutually exclusive. Indeed, consumers would probably complain less about a higher gasoline tax if their cars got more miles to the gallon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RETAIL SALES (72%) 

PERSON: Alan B Krueger

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



263 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Race Plays Silent Role in Campaign for Mayor of Buffalo

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
For weeks now, the two major candidates for mayor here have been offering competing portrayals of themselves as reformers. They both campaign on themes reflecting how they would turn around this city, New York's second largest, which is struggling with a ballooning deficit and decades of declining population and jobs.
 What they have not been talking about, however, is race, a factor that could make this campaign historic in Buffalo.
State Senator Byron W. Brown, a Democrat, is seeking to become the city's first black mayor, succeeding where a line of six black Democratic candidates since the 1960's has failed. Mr. Brown, 47, who was elected to the State Senate in 2000, is widely seen as having a better chance than any of his black predecessors. He has represented a Senate district that is roughly 60 percent white and he has received the endorsements of the major unions and Democratic leaders in a city where Democrats enjoy an eight-to-one registration advantage over Republicans. 
 The Republican candidate, Kevin J. Helfer, 47, is making a strong showing despite his party's disadvantage in registration. His platform centers on the promise to radically change the way government operates; he speaks passionately about a need to consolidate offices and to reduce the size of government.
 And so, the campaign to succeed the departing mayor, Anthony M. Masiello, is far more competitive than the typical mayor's race in Buffalo. 
 ''Usually the Democratic primary in Buffalo is the race,'' said Kevin Hardwick, a political science professor at Canisius College here who once ran as a Republican candidate for the Erie County Legislature. ''But the fact that there is a race after the primary is the really interesting thing. And it's a race, to a large extent, because of race.''
 Some contend that economic problems have made voters consider a change in a city that has not elected a Republican mayor since 1961. Others ask whether there is some reluctance among white voters to support Mr. Brown in a city that, according to the 2000 census, is 54 percent white, 37 percent black and 7 percent Hispanic.
 But Mr. Helfer and Buffalo's Republican leaders say that the contest for mayor is competitive not because of race, but because voters are weary of nonstop economic woes that have afflicted not only Democratic-led Buffalo, but the region.
 With the county facing a $100 million budget gap earlier this year, the state approved a control board for the county in June. It was the first time that both a New York county and its largest city were forced to operate under state supervision.
 ''This race is winnable for me because of the times we're in here,'' said Mr. Helfer, a onetime registered member of the Conservative Party and a former member of Buffalo's Common Council. ''The public has absolutely no faith in government because government has let them down. We have two control boards and we're notorious for nothing getting done.''
 Mr. Helfer contends that as a Democrat, Mr. Brown represents business as usual. ''He is the candidate of the unions and the politicians. Am I going to constantly reform government as mayor? You bet I am.'' 
 He has proposed consolidating the city's fire, police and emergency services departments and said he would seek the authority to license more charter schools.
 Mr. Brown, too, has taken great pains to cast himself as reformer.
 ''To portray me as representing the status quo is ridiculous,'' Mr. Brown said. ''I've been a change agent all of my career in the State Senate and in the Council. And I certainly would be one as mayor.''
 Mr. Brown's proposals have included using computer technology to monitor the performance of government agencies to reduce costs, increasing recycling to save money on maintaining landfills and cracking down on drug-related crimes. So far, Mr. Brown has enjoyed not only an advantage in endorsements, including support from United States Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles E. Schumer and United States Representative Brian Higgins. He is also leading in fund-raising, having collected nearly $800,000 for the mayor's race, compared with the roughly $150,000 raised by the Helfer campaign.
 Still, Republican leaders insist that Mr. Helfer's ideas have wide appeal, pointing out that he won the Conservative Party primary as a write-in candidate -- even though Mr. Brown had been endorsed by that party's leaders.
 ''He represents the best opportunity this party has had in 44 years,'' said Robert Davis, the chairman of the Erie County Republican Party. ''We believe he can win.''
 Democrats are cautiously optimistic.
 ''Byron has already shown that he can work in coalition with everyone,'' said Arthur O. Eve Jr., a vice chairman of the Erie County Democratic Party. ''He is charismatic and I think Democrats are galvanized behind him.''
 Mr. Eve, whose father, a longtime assemblyman, was among the line of unsuccessful black candidates for mayor, said that he hoped the city's racial attitudes have changed since his father ran, in 1977.
 ''Is it possible that race could be an issue this time? It shouldn't be,'' Mr. Eve said. ''But frankly, after watching politics here for some time, nothing would surprise me.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Republican candidate for mayor, Kevin J. Helfer, left, is making a strong showing despite his party's disadvantage in registration. State Senator Byron W. Brown, a Democrat, is seeking to become the city's first black mayor. He leads Mr. Helfer in endorsements and fund-raising. (Photographs by Dan Cappellazzo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (94%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (72%); CENSUS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Blacks; Election Issues; Elections; Mayors; Finances; Endorsements

PERSON: Jonathan P Hicks; Kevin J Helfer; Byron W (Sen) Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Buffalo (NY); Buffalo (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



264 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: City Looks for Developer to Make Lighthouse Museum a Staten Island Reality

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
With efforts to create a national lighthouse museum at a historic site on Staten Island foundering, the city -- which has already spent $6.5 million on the project -- said last week that it was seeking a private developer to incorporate the museum into a housing and retail complex. The intention is to have revenues from the development finance the remaining costs of creating the museum and help support its future operations.
 The museum's sponsors have been unable to raise more than $2 million of their planned contribution of $5 million to $10 million, the project's executive director says. While he and city officials agree on the need to bring in a private developer, the museum official sharply disputes the city's way of doing it, and he questions whether the museum will wind up in the city at all. 
''It may or may not result in a museum,'' the executive director, Jerry P. Roberts, said last week of the city's request for development proposals. He maintained, among other complaints, that the request failed to guarantee that the developer selected would be required to give the museum a permanent home. 
 Mr. Roberts called the attempt to incorporate the museum into a larger development a last-ditch move in the seven-year effort to create the museum in New York. If the attempt fails or an agreement with a developer does not give the museum's sponsors an absolute guarantee that the museum will be a permanent part of the development, he said, the sponsors will ''take this to another city.''
 ''One city is aggressively courting us,'' Mr. Roberts said, though he declined to identify it.
 An executive vice president of New York City's Economic Development Corporation, Brian Murphy, called the city's approach ''the best chance for the museum to find a home.'' He said that Mr. Roberts's desire for a guarantee was among ''details to be worked out.'' 
 The planned museum would be located a short walk from the Staten Island ferry terminal in St. George, and housed in two of six long-vacant buildings that, from the 1860's to the 1960's, played a major role in the federal government's lighthouse operations. From the site, employees of a succession of agencies that operated the nation's lighthouses shipped lenses and fuel to shoreline beacons up and down the East Coast, trained lighthouse keepers, conducted research in new lenses, and repaired lightships, also part of the country's navigational aid system. 
 The Coast Guard, which took over the Lighthouse Service in 1939, ended operations at the Staten Island site 40 years ago, and Washington transferred the land and buildings to the city in 1978. Most of the lighthouse depot buildings were torn down to make way for a ferry maintenance facility. The six buildings that survived fell into disuse and decay. A pier, too, survived.
 The history of the site was a major factor in its 1998 selection as the location for a new National Lighthouse Center and Museum, whose name was later shortened to the National Lighthouse Museum. With only two of the six buildings to be used for the museum, the other four are available for conversion by a developer to housing or retail use. 
 The museum idea originated with lighthouse preservation groups and maritime historians across the country, ''who thought we should preserve lighthouse traditions,'' Mr. Roberts said. 
 Of about 2,000 lighthouses built in the United States, fewer than 300 are still in operation, he said, adding that the Coast Guard planned to phase out more lighthouses as the satellite-based Global Positioning System reduced the need for them.
 Mr. Roberts joined the museum project last January after 20 years as vice president in charge of exhibits at the Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum in Manhattan. He said the board of directors for the planned lighthouse museum had asked him to ''come in and try to salvage this project.'' At the site last week, Mr. Roberts said that the work for which the city had spent $6.5 million included repairing the roofs and brick facades of the two buildings and installing new windows.
 If the museum is built, the cavernous buildings, he said, will be filled with ''exhibits on the history and technology of lighthouses, a collection of lenses, models of lighthouses and interactive exhibits that will allow kids to play navigational games.'' 
 Much of the nearly $2 million that the museum sponsors raised, he said, has been used to purchase exhibit items, which have been stored across the country, and to commission the design by the Lee H. Skolnick Architecture & Design Partnership.
 The retired Nantucket Lightship would be berthed at the site's pier. Mr. Roberts said the museum had acquired the ship for $1 from Bridgeport, Conn., its last retirement home.
 A space between the buildings would become a glass-enclosed atrium. ''Right here,'' Mr. Roberts said, standing in the middle of the space, would be a ''big lighthouse lens gleaming in the sun.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerry P. Roberts, executive director of the lighthouse museum project, hopes to put the museum in two old lighthouse lamp shops on Staten Island. (Photo by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (92%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITIES (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); FERRIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%) Lighthouses and Lightships; Museums; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Lighthouses and Lightships

PERSON: Joseph P Fried

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



265 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: A Flicker of Hope in Iraq

 BODY:
It has been hard to make sense of America's involvement in Iraq for a long time now. Arguments that our soldiers are risking their lives to protect the United States from terrorism, or deadly weapons of mass destruction, have come to nothing. The only logical basis for staying the course has been the hope that in the end, Iraqis can be put on the road to a stable, inclusive government. That hope has come close to extinction many times. But today it seems a little more substantial. 
 Just days ahead of Saturday's vital constitutional referendum, representatives of rival religious and ethnic communities in Iraq hammered out their most significant political compromise. With American diplomatic prodding, the dominant Shiite and Kurdish parties agreed with a section of the Sunni Arab leadership on changes that should make it easier for Sunni voters to accept a badly flawed draft constitution because they offer assurances that it can be drastically amended a few months later.
Plainly, this isn't textbook democratic procedure. Voters are being asked to approve the constitution -- which many have had no chance to read -- with the assumption that it may soon be radically rewritten. But compared with the mess Iraq seemed headed for this weekend, it is a big improvement. 
 The most important part of the changed situation is the newly constructive attitude of Sunni, Shiite and Kurdish political leaders. Sunnis are still smarting over their loss of power, but at least some now appear ready to channel their grievances into constitutional and electoral processes. And an encouraging number of Shiites and Kurds appear at last to recognize that they have been endangering their own dreams of peace and national recovery by stoking the alienation and rage that have been consuming much of the Sunni community. 
 The absence of even this minimal basis for consensus before now had made it difficult to take the whole American-orchestrated constitutional exercise seriously. Now there is at least some groundwork, however shaky, for working toward a peaceful future. If the emerging political system can prove itself truly responsive to legitimate Sunni concerns, there will be much greater hope of draining support from the murderous insurgency. 
 Hope is not the same thing as optimism. Without changes, the constitution that Iraqis are voting on this weekend still threatens to marginalize the Sunni professional classes, politically and economically, and create a federal government that offers excessive powers to the future autonomous regions that the Kurds and Shiites expect to establish.
 That combination is a blueprint for national fragmentation and prolonged civil war. This week's agreement could allow some of the worst parts of the constitution to be fixed after the fact. But that can happen only through a difficult procedure that will require the Kurds and Shiites to relinquish some of their own political goals to accommodate the Sunnis. And that will still leave the fundamental legal rights of Iraqi women insufficiently protected. 
 Clearly, it will take a great deal of political maturity on all sides to negotiate the hurdles ahead successfully, beginning with Saturday's referendum. And it will all have to be done in the midst of a brutal and relentless insurgency, pitifully inadequate Iraqi security forces and an overstretched and increasingly unpopular American military presence. But if the tentative political trends that produced this week's deal can be sustained and extended, those who have sacrificed so much to give Iraq the opportunity for freedom will have some reason to believe their efforts may not be in vain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORISM (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); REFERENDUMS (75%); POLITICS (75%); RELIGION (70%); ETHNICITY (55%) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



266 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: As Disaster Follows Disaster, Relief Groups Feel the Strain 

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
When a tsunami swept the shores of the Indian Ocean one day after Christmas last year, private relief agencies wondered how they would respond, given the crises they were already confronting in places like Afghanistan, Sudan and Iraq.
 Their work in those places continues, as well as in Indonesia and Sri Lanka, and now they are scrambling to respond to mudslides in Guatemala and El Salvador and reach earthquake victims in Pakistan and India.
''It is the worst year that any of us can remember in terms of the sheer number and magnitude of emergencies around the world, and it has strained all of us in terms of personal stamina and institutional capacity,'' said Rudy von Bernuth, vice president for humanitarian programs at Save the Children USA, in a telephone interview from Geneva on Tuesday.
 Throughout the disaster response and relief community, the word of choice is ''stretched.'' 
 ''This week we are working on both the hurricane in Guatemala and the earthquake -- and that's just natural disasters,'' said Christophe Fournier, program director at Doctors Without Borders. ''Then you have the man-made disasters, like that in Niger, where we have treated more than 35,000 acutely malnourished children already, Darfur, where insecurity is resuming again, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where the population is constantly being displaced.''
 Complicating things now is the tepid response of donors. Images of the destruction inflicted by the earthquake would normally produce an outpouring of generosity, but organizations say fund-raising has so far been slow. Save the Children, for instance, raised $5.1 million online in the first five days after the tsunami. By midday on Tuesday, its Web site had raised just $100,000 for earthquake victims. Since it started raising money for Guatemala on Tuesday, it has raised just $1,000 online.
 ''One of the things that really concerns us is not just our own potential exhaustion but the impact on the public of all these emergencies,'' Mr. von Bernuth said. ''Appeals we have launched three or four months ago for places like Zimbabwe and Ethiopia have never gotten any attention from the public, and this one isn't off to a great start.''
 Partly for that reason, Doctors Without Borders is not offering donors the option of earmarking their gifts for the earthquake victims but instead is encouraging them to give to its general disaster relief fund. Mr. Fournier said that approach ''is what makes us able to respond to several crises at the same time so no one crisis is shortchanged.''
 Rigoberto Giron, emergency adviser at CARE, said that the organization was relying on money it had on hand to start its earthquake operations and that some governments had already indicated they would provide financial support for some specific operations. ''I do think we'll have the required funding, although that doesn't mean we won't feel some pressure in the other crises we're dealing with,'' he said.
 Trevor Rowe, a spokesman for the United Nations World Food Program, said the agency was getting little response to two food crises in Africa. ''There's so much demand, and it's clearly the result of a sharp increase in the number of natural disasters,'' he said. 
 He pointed to statistics from Munich Re, a Swiss insurance company, that show there were 2.6 times more natural catastrophes from 1993 through 2002 than in the 1960's and that those disasters had an economic impact more than seven times greater than those in the earlier period.
 When the earthquake struck, Save the Children was fortunate enough to have some 300 workers in Pakistan doing its day-to-day job of helping Afghan refugees, managing basic health care units on behalf of the United Nations, providing immunizations and other activities.
 Just recently, some of them were trained to respond to emergencies until the appropriate teams arrive, and when the earthquake struck, Bruce Rasmussen, who oversees the organization's activities there, dipped into a pool of money that was available and bought tents and food packets. The United States contributed a planeload of blankets, plastic sheeting and jerrycans, and 14 trucks set out for Batagram, one of the most severely damaged areas.
 ''Everything that was on the shelves a couple of days ago has been procured by various organizations,'' Mr. Rasmussen said. ''We're bringing in tents from Quetta, but tomorrow we're going to have to regroup and find more tents so families and kids aren't sleeping out in the open.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman held her injured child in ravaged Karnah in Indian Kashmir. (Photo by Adnan Abidi/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); LANDSLIDES (76%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); MALNUTRITION (65%) 

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN (56%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (55%)

PERSON: Stephanie Strom

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); KASHMIR (79%) PAKISTAN (93%); GUATEMALA (93%); INDIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); INDONESIA (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); SUDAN (91%); IRAQ (90%); ASIA (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); NIGER (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Indian Ocean; Guatemala; El Salvador; Pakistan; India

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



267 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Johnson Sues Amgen Over Sales Practice

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
In the latest skirmish in a bitter war over the best-selling drug ever created by biotechnology, Johnson & Johnson has filed an antitrust suit accusing rival Amgen of using illegal leverage to drive its drug, Procrit, out of the market. 
 In a suit filed Tuesday in Federal District Court in Trenton, N.J., Johnson & Johnson said Amgen was bundling sales of its drugs in a way that forces cancer clinics to buy Amgen's Aranesp at the expense of Procrit.
A spokeswoman for Amgen, Mary Klem, said, ''We believe the allegations are not legitimate and we intend to fight this.'' 
 Both Aranesp and Procrit are versions of erythropoietin, a protein that bolsters the body's production of red blood cells. Combined sales to American cancer clinics, which use the drugs to treat anemia caused by chemotherapy, are expected to be $2.8 billion this year, the lawsuit said. 
 Amgen sells two other drugs, Neulasta and Neupogen, that increase production of infection-fighting white blood cells and are used to treat a different side effect of chemotherapy. Amgen has about 98 percent of the market for white cell boosters, a virtual monopoly, according to the lawsuit. Johnson & Johnson does not sell a similar product.
 Johnson & Johnson accused Amgen of giving cancer clinics bigger discounts on Neulasta and Neupogen -- drugs they cannot do without -- if they buy more Aranesp. Without the discounts, the suit contends, clinics would lose money on Neulasta when reimbursed by Medicare. 
 ''Forcing physicians who treat cancer patients to abandon Procrit as the only economically viable way to gain access to another badly needed drug for their patients is not, by any measure, in the public interest,'' the lawsuit says. 
 The complaint says Procrit's market share in cancer clinics has fallen to 34 percent, from 55 percent in the first quarter of 2004. 
 It asks the court to order Amgen to stop its practices and pay treble damages. 
 Amgen and Johnson & Johnson have been feuding almost ever since Amgen, as a young company in need of cash, licensed Procrit to Johnson & Johnson in 1985. A few years ago, Amgen, now the world's biggest biotechnology company, came out with Aranesp, a new anemia drug that can be given less frequently than Procrit, and began competing with its former partner. 
 Ronald Renaud Jr., an analyst at J.P. Morgan who recommends Amgen stock, said that Johnson & Johnson was ''grasping at straws'' with the lawsuit. 
 ''We maintain that the most significant driver behind Aranesp's success has been the less frequent dosing when compared to Procrit,'' Mr. Renaud wrote in a note to clients. ''Keeping a cancer patient from having to return to the oncologist's office any more than necessary is a powerful incentive to use both Aranesp and Neulasta.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); CANCER (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); CANCER DRUGS (90%); ONCOLOGY (89%); ANEMIA (88%); DAMAGES (78%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (77%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (76%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); MEDICARE (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); MARKET SHARE (67%) 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (93%); AMGEN INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Johnson & Johnson Inc; Amgen Inc

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (93%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: Andrew Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



268 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Trade Talks Are Hung Up On Subsidies To Farmers

BYLINE: By TOM WRIGHT; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: GENEVA, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
Trade ministers ended three days of talks aimed at overhauling farm subsidies and import tariffs without reaching a deal on Wednesday, but agreed to meet again next week.
 The United States, which on Monday offered to cut its farm subsidies by 60 percent, blamed the European Union for the failure because it did not accept concessions that Washington is demanding in return.
''I'm disappointed because we haven't seen much progress on market access,'' the United States trade representative, Rob Portman, said. ''Time is running out.'' 
 The European Union agreed to lower its subsidies by 70 percent, up from a previous offer of 65 percent, but has not signaled that it is willing to meet the demands on tariff reductions. 
 In its proposal, the United States asked Europe to agree to reduce tariffs on farm imports by 55 percent to 90 percent. But because the European Union imposes higher import tariffs than the United States, such a move would disproportionately hit European farmers.
 The European trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson, said that he would outline a new European tariff reduction schedule next week after conferring with the union's 25 members.
 But Europe is not willing to act alone, he said. Fast-growing developing countries like China, India and Brazil must also agree to open their markets. Ministers from the United States, the European Union, Brazil, India and Australia will meet again next week in Geneva to try to resolve differences ahead of a meeting in December that is part of the Doha round of global trade talks of the World Trade Organization. 
 Developing countries led by Brazil are seeking a drastic reduction of the tens of billions of dollars that rich countries pay to their farmers each year. The system, these countries say, encourages overproduction, which is dumped on global markets and depresses prices. 
 The trade ministers, however, are limited in what they can offer because any deals will have to be approved by the countries they represent.
 Europe could face difficulties in improving its offer, trade experts say, given the pressure that it faces from many member states not to make any more concessions. Christine Lagarde, France's trade minister, accused Mr. Mandelson this week of overstepping his mandate in talks here after he agreed to deepen European subsidy cuts. 
 Similarly, Mr. Portman could face a reaction from American farmers to his subsidy cuts if the United States is unable to secure better access for its products in European and other markets. 
 Saxby Chambliss, chairman of the Senate Agricultural Committee, reminded Mr. Portman in a letter last week that Congress, not W.T.O. negotiations, should set farm spending policy in the United States. 
 Current trade talks, begun in Doha, Qatar, in 2001, are supposed to lead to tariff cuts on a range of goods and services, but have bogged down over agriculture in the last couple of years.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Soybeans being dumped into a truck last month in Nebraska. The United States and the European Union remain at odds over farm subsidies. (Photo by Nati Harnik/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (92%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); APPROVALS (68%) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) European Union

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (75%); PETER MANDELSON (59%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (59%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (55%) Tom Wright

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); INDIA (92%); QATAR (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); FRANCE (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



269 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Warning to Bankers on Real Estate Loans 

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Oct. 12 

 BODY:
A Federal Reserve governor, Susan S. Bies, warned on Wednesday about risky real estate lending practices, saying banks could be hurt by higher interest rates or by a decline in home prices. 
 ''Banking supervisors have become concerned recently about apparent increased risk-taking in both commercial and real estate lending,'' Ms. Bies told the National Bankers Association annual convention in Beverly Hills, Calif. 
 Ms. Bies said regulators had seen an easing of underwriting standards as banks competed to extend home equity loans. ''There is some concern that banks' home equity loan portfolios may be vulnerable to a rise in interest rates and, in some markets, a decline in home values,'' she said. 
 Ms. Bies' remarks were the latest in a series from bank regulators expressing concern over interest-only loans and other types of nontraditional mortgage products that have allowed buyers to purchase homes that would have been otherwise unaffordable. 
 ''From the point of view of bank supervisors, affordability products do not necessarily pose solvency concerns,'' she said, adding that most homeowners had ''a significant'' equity cushion. 
 Ms. Bies also said banks were generally well capitalized, ''which means that prices could fall significantly without leading to a significant number of bank failures.'' 
 The Fed needs to come to a better understanding of why some minority borrowers often pay higher rates than whites, she said, adding that the data ''raise legal issues of compliance with fair lending laws.''
 Many of the high-cost loans were being extended by mortgage brokers and finance companies outside the purview of federal regulation, she said. 
 The chairman of the Fed, Alan R. Greenspan, also addressed challenges confronting policy makers in a speech in Washington on Wednesday.
 Mr. Greenspan told the National Italian American Foundation that the ability of the economy to survive recent shocks showed the benefits of economic flexibility but also encouraged ''speculative excess.'' 
 ''Although the business cycle has not disappeared, flexibility has made the economy more resilient to shocks and more stable over all during the past couple of decades,'' Mr. Greenspan said. ''To be sure, that stability, by fostering speculative excesses, has created some new challenges for policy makers. 
 ''But more fundamentally, an environment of greater economic stability has been key to the impressive growth in the standards of living and economic welfare so evident in the United States,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, at Riggs Library at Georgetown, said the economy's flexibility had helped keep it stable (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (86%); FAIR LENDING (78%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (70%) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Bankers Assn of America; National Italian American Foundation

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%) Susan Schmidt Bies; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



270 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Democrats See Dream of '06 Victory Taking Form 

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
Suddenly, Democrats see a possibility in 2006 they have long dreamed of: a sweeping midterm election framed around what they describe as the simple choice of change with the Democrats or more of an unpopular status quo with the Republican majority.
 That sense of political opportunity has Democratic operatives scrambling to recruit more candidates in Congressional districts that look newly favorable for Democratic gains, to overcome internal divisions and produce an agenda they can carry into 2006, and to raise the money to compete across a broader field. In short, the Democrats are trying to be ready if, in fact, an anti-incumbent, 1994-style political wave hits.
Already, the response to Hurricane Katrina, the war in Iraq and soaring gasoline prices have taken a toll on the popularity of President Bush and Congressional Republicans; new polling by the Pew Research Center shows the approval rating for Congressional Republican leaders at 32 percent, with 52 percent disapproving, a sharp deterioration since March. (The ratings of Democratic leaders stood at 32 percent approval, 48 percent disapproval.) 
 A new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll, released Wednesday night, showed that 13 months before the midterm election, 48 percent said they wanted a Democratic-led Congress, compared to 39 percent who preferred Republican control.
 But for Democrats to step into the void, many strategists and elected officials say, they must offer more than a blistering critique of the Republicans in power, the regular attacks on what Democrats now describe as a ''culture of cronyism and corruption.''
 What they need, many Democrats acknowledge, is their own version of the ''Contract With America,'' the Republican agenda (tax cuts, a balanced budget, a stronger military and an array of internal reforms) that the party campaigned on in the 1994 landslide election, when it won control of the House and the Senate. 
 ''I think Democrats understand we have a great opportunity,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. ''We've gotten much better at blocking some of the bad things the Republicans would do, but we know you can't be a party of long-term majorities unless you put forward the things you would do.''
 For all the Democratic optimism, important structural obstacles stand in the way of major Democratic gains, outside analysts and Republican campaign officials say.
 Ken Mehlman, chairman of the Republican National Committee, said of the Democrats: ''Look, we've heard this talk before. It was always talk then, and it's talk now. If you look at the competitive races, you'll find a playing field that is either relatively even or favors Republicans. They have a huge uphill fight, and there's no evidence they're climbing that hill.''
 To recapture the House, Democrats need a net gain of 15 seats. That is a difficult feat if -- as some predict -- the number of competitive seats is fewer than three dozen, thanks largely to redistrictings. To recapture the Senate, Democrats need to pick up six seats, also an extremely high bar given the seats up this year. And while the current political climate is bleak for Republicans, no one knows what it will be a year from now. 
 Moreover, while the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee had an edge over its Republican counterpart in the last fund-raising reports, Republicans as a whole had a substantial financial advantage. And, Mr. Mehlman said, they will use it.
 ''There will be no higher priority for the Republican National Committee,'' he said, ''than protecting the majority in the House and the Senate in 2006, meaning that we intend to be very helpful from a resource perspective, an advice perspective, an expertise perspective.''
 Charles Cook, the influential nonpartisan analyst of Congressional elections, said: ''Right now, if I had to bet would the Democrats take the House and Senate back, I'd say no. But are the odds a heck of a lot better than they were three months ago or six months ago? Heck, yes.'' 
 Reflecting that shift in assessments, Democrats are preparing for a midterm with broad, national themes and possibilities -- like 1982, 1986 and 1994. Democratic leaders from the House, the Senate, the national party and representatives of mayors and governors have met periodically to try to produce their own campaign agenda for 2006, which they hope to unveil early next year, strategists and senators said. 
 That agenda will deal with energy independence, broader access to health care and college education, government reform, economic security and -- the most divisive issue for the Democrats -- Iraq and national security, Democratic strategists say.
 Whether to offer Democratic alternatives or simply critique the Republicans has been a long-running argument in the party during its years in the minority; earlier this year, that debate was engaged on Social Security. (The Democrats refused to put an alternative on the table during that fight, focusing on the Bush plan.) But several strategists said there was widespread consensus on the need for a general set of alternatives in 2006 to highlight Democratic values and priorities -- and to step forward earlier than the Republicans did in 1994, when they unveiled their Contract with America in September.
 In the meantime, Democrats are trying to set the stage for an anti-incumbent year, arguing, in a variety of venues: ''America Can Do Better.'' Under that rubric, Senate Democrats have been holding events out in the country this week highlighting the problems of high energy costs as winter approaches.
 On another front, Democratic campaign officials are racing to recruit more House candidates in places like Ohio and Kentucky. Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the Democratic whip and a leader in the recruitment effort, said he spent part of last week in Ohio with potential candidates, and his message is simple: ''My basic premise is, I think this is the best context for Democrats to be running in for the House of Representatives since 1994.'' 
 Mr. Bush's approval ratings are, perhaps, the most closely watched political indicator at the moment. Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew Research Center, said, ''In every midterm election season, a president with approval ratings as low as President Bush's has had his party taking it on the chin.''
 But much can change in 12 months. And Republicans note that while the popularity of Mr. Bush and the Congressional Republicans is down, the ratings for Congressional Democrats have not risen.
 In the meantime, the different strategies of the parties are apparent. ''These guys represent the status quo, and we are change,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. His Republican counterpart, Representative Thomas M. Reynolds, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, argued in a recent memorandum that, ''in the end, Congressional elections have less to do with current events, opinions and polls, than they do with the fundamentals,'' which he defined as ''money, message and members.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); TAX LAW (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); HURRICANE KATRINA (54%); OIL & GAS PRICES (54%); GASOLINE PRICES (54%) 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (69%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US); House of Representatives (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) Robin Toner; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



271 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Pledge? The Joke's on the Poor

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
A Page1 article in The Times on Tuesday carried the following headline: ''Liberal Hopes Ebb in Post-Storm Poverty Debate.''
 I might have started laughing if the subject weren't so serious. Who in their right mind -- liberal, moderate, Rotarian, contrarian -- could have possibly thought that George W. Bush and his G.O.P. Wild Bunch (Dick Cheney, Karl Rove, Tom DeLay et al.) had suddenly seen the light (''Eureka! We've been wrong!'') and become serious about engaging the problem of poverty in America?
 The article noted that some liberal activists had hoped that the extraordinary suffering caused by Hurricane Katrina might lead to a genuine effort by the administration and Congress to address such important poverty-related matters as health care, housing, employment and race. 
 After all, the president himself had gone on national television from the French Quarter of the stricken city of New Orleans and promised ''bold action.''
 ''As all of us saw on television,'' said Mr. Bush, ''there is also some deep, persistent poverty in this region as well. That poverty has roots in a history of racial discrimination, which cut off generations from the opportunity of America. We have a duty to confront this poverty with bold action. So let us restore all that we have cherished from yesterday, and let us rise above the legacy of inequality.''
 I assumed that most people watching the president realized that he was deeply embedded in a Karl Rove moment. The speech was a carefully scripted, meticulously staged performance designed primarily to halt the widespread criticism of Mr. Bush's failure to respond more quickly to the tragedy. 
 As the president spoke, it never occurred to me that anyone would buy into the notion that Mr. Bush and his supporters would actually do something about poverty and racism. Someone who believed that could probably be persuaded to make a bid on eBay to buy the Brooklyn Bridge.
 Mr. Bush is the standard-bearer par excellence of his party's efforts to redistribute the bounty of the U.S. from the bottom up, not the other way around. This is no longer a matter of dispute. Mr. Bush may not be the greatest commander in chief. And he may not be adept at sidestepping the land mines of language. (''I promise you I will listen to what has been said here, even though I wasn't here.'') But if there's one thing the president has been good at, it has been funneling money to the rich. The suffering wrought by Katrina hasn't changed that at all.
 One of the first things the president did in the aftermath of Katrina was to poke his finger in the eyes of struggling workers by suspending the requirements of the Davis-Bacon Act in the storm-ravaged areas. Passed during the Great Depression, the law requires contractors on federally funded construction projects to pay at least the prevailing wage in the region. 
 This is one more way of taking money from the working poor and handing it to the wealthy. A construction laborer in New Orleans who would ordinarily be paid about $9 an hour, the prevailing wage in the city, can now be paid less. So much for the president's commitment to fighting poverty.
 Poverty has steadily increased under President Bush, even as breathtaking riches (think tax cuts, cronyism, war profiteering, you name it) have been heaped upon those who were already wealthy. Class divisions are hardening, and economic inequality continues to increase dramatically.
 Mr. Bush's political posturing (his speeches, his endless trips to the Gulf Coast) is not meant to serve as a beacon of hope for the downtrodden. It is a message to middle-class voters, who have become increasingly disturbed by the president's policies and were appalled by the fact that he seemed unmoved by the terrible suffering that followed Hurricane Katrina.
 The man who campaigned as a compassionate conservative and then turned the federal government into a compassion-free zone is all but handing out press releases that say, ''I care.''
 He cares all right. About his poll ratings. In the end, much of the money to help lower-income victims of the recent storms will most likely be siphoned from existing, badly needed and already underfunded programs to help the poor and near-poor.
 A real effort to fight poverty and combat discrimination? From this regime? You must be joking.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (73%); HURRICANES (69%); RACE & RACISM (65%); TROPICAL STORMS (54%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); KARL ROVE (56%); DICK CHENEY (56%) Bob Herbert; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Louisiana; New Orleans (La); United States

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



272 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Rice, Visiting Violent Afghanistan, Still Finds Political Progress 

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY and RUHULLAH KHAPALWAK; Joel Brinkley reported from Kabul for this article, and Ruhullah Khapalwak from Kandahar.

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice arrived here Wednesday for a short visit during a continuing surge of violence, but she remained intent on portraying Afghanistan as a nation making significant headway.
 ''Afghanistan is inspiring the world with its march toward democracy,'' she said here, just hours after insurgents fired three rockets into downtown, wounding two Afghans.
The same morning, two gunmen on a motorbike ambushed a medical team on its way to a refugee camp in Kandahar Province, in southern Afghanistan, killing two doctors, a nurse, a pharmacist and an administrator, Afghan officials said. 
 That attack followed two major ambushes of police officers on Tuesday, some of the worst violence against Afghan personnel since the Taliban was defeated in 2001. Eighteen policemen were killed in the first attack, an ambush on a police convoy in Helmand Province. Then six more policemen were killed on Tuesday night in an ambush in the south, in Oruzgan Province. 
 ''Only the Taliban are doing this, no one else,'' said Jan Muhammad Khan, the governor of Oruzgan. 
 At least 84 Americans have also died in Afghanistan this year, more than during any year since the United States invaded in October 2001.
 To be sure, during the same period Afghanistan has elected a president, Hamid Karzai, and last month the nation held successful parliamentary elections. 
 But along the way, the deadly violence has increased, and in recent weeks the insurgency appears to have picked up a tactic from Israel and Iraq: There have been five suicide bombings.
 But during her visit here, Ms. Rice said nothing about the violence unless asked and remained focused on her message, as she usually does, unwilling to criticize the new state of Afghanistan, which is in large part an American creation. 
 When asked about the violence, she said of the attackers: ''They have not been able to stop either of the elections that took place. They have not been able to stop the equipping and training of Afghani security forces.''
 Ms. Rice stopped here for just a few hours, the first of three stops on Wednesday. She also visited Pakistan and Kazakhstan. Her agenda here, she told reporters aboard her plane, included ''a serious discussion with the Afghanis about how to build a stable economy'' as well as ''helping Afghanistan root out'' the opium-poppy trade.
 The production of opium, which is used to make heroin, has ballooned in the last three years, so much so that early this year the State Department office that handles drug trafficking said Afghanistan was ''on the verge of becoming a narcotics state.''
 American officials said Afghans had told them the opium crop did not shrink this year, even though some acreage has been eradicated, because the weather has been especially favorable. Late last month Ali Jalili, the interior minister, resigned after complaining for months that senior officials throughout the government were in league with the drug traffickers.
 Asked during a news conference about that assertion, President Karzai did not respond directly but expressed determination to fight the drug trade, saying, ''If we fail, we will fail as a state and eventually will fall back into the hands of terrorism.''
 Ms. Rice said, ''We have every reason to trust his word.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); OPIUM (86%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); PHARMACISTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); HEROIN (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (56%); REFUGEES (56%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%) 

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (92%); HAMAD KARZAI (57%) Joel Brinkley; ruhullah khapalwak; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005



273 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Grief, Love and Shoes In a Kentucky Stew

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
Elizabethtown, the pleasant hamlet that has provided Cameron Crowe with the title and the setting for his new film, lies in the lovely Commonwealth of Kentucky, not far from Louisville. Among the culinary specialties of that state is a dish called burgoo, which is described by ''Joy of Cooking'' as a ''thick, long-simmered potpourri, a catch-as-catch-can mixture of meats, fowl and garden gleanings -- with squirrel thrown in, in some authentic local versions.'' 
 Give or take a squirrel, that pretty much sums up ''Elizabethtown.'' It is a strange, messy stew of a movie, with some tasty garden gleanings, a few chunks of gristle and too many leftovers thrown in the pot for it to be entirely digestible. Trimmed down from a longer version that was shown at the Venice and Toronto film festivals, the movie struggles to sustain a tone of bittersweet whimsy, but its emotions are in the end as undercooked as its ideas. 
Which is a shame, because Mr. Crowe gestures toward some offbeat feelings and interesting insights having to do with family loyalty, professional success and their place in the modern American social landscape. With characteristic good humor and generosity of spirit, he has tried to open up the conventions of romantic comedy, to let his picture breathe some of the warm, eccentric air of real life. And at its best moments, when the pace relaxes and the camera almost seems to have been distracted from its main narrative purpose, ''Elizabethtown'' has a loose, unforced friendliness that makes it hard to dislike, in spite of its many lapses and shortcomings.
 One of which is the absence of a coherent script. Mr. Crowe seems to have begun by recycling a bunch of pages from ''Jerry Maguire,'' his best and most commercially successful effort to date. Once again we begin with the spectacle of an ambitious young hotshot -- in this case a sneaker designer rather than a sports agent -- brought low. Drew Baylor (Orlando Bloom), who works at a Nike-like company in the Pacific Northwest, is responsible for a revolutionary new shoe called the Spasmotica, the recall of which costs Mercury just under a billion dollars in lost revenue. ''We could have saved the planet,'' sighs the chief executive, a narcissistic New Age windbag played with icy satirical precision by Alec Baldwin. 
 The Spasmotica debacle -- which for Drew defines the difference between ''failure'' and ''fiasco'' -- costs him his job, his company girlfriend (Jessica Biel) and very nearly his life. An elaborate suicide attempt (involving a stationary bicycle and a fancy stainless-steel chef's knife) is interrupted by a phone call from his sister (Judy Greer), who tells Drew that their father has died suddenly while visiting his kinfolk back home in Kentucky. Their mother (Susan Sarandon) is in no condition to travel, so Drew boards an empty night flight to Louisville. The only other person on the plane seems to be a talkative flight attendant named Claire, played by Kirsten Dunst, who may, come to think of it, be the squirrel in this particular burgoo.
 Not that her slipshod accent exactly gives it a local, authentic flavor, but she does at least bring to her improbable character a twitch of mischievous energy. Mr. Bloom, in contrast, cute as he is, is all blank stares and shy smiles. Perhaps Drew is meant to be dazed by shock and grief; perhaps he is supposed to be dumbstruck by his noisy Kentucky relations and Claire, his chatterbox love interest with whom he can't seem to get off the cellphone. It's hard to tell, and harder to care, as Mr. Bloom distinguishes himself, in this performance as in most of his others, by his steadfast reluctance to explore his range as an actor. Paul Schneider (''All the Real Girls''), playing Drew's feckless Kentucky cousin Jessie, upstages Mr. Bloom by being consistently more interesting and less predictable. 
 But Mr. Crowe does not exactly make it easy for his star. ''Elizabethtown'' covers a week in Drew's life during which he must grapple with failure, grief, various forms of familial awkwardness and the first stirrings of true love. That is quite a lot for any actor -- or any filmmaker -- to handle, and it requires more than pop song-driven montages and cozy, disjointed tete-a-tete dialogue to bring it off. Mr. Crowe, who cut his teeth writing for Rolling Stone, has a well-established fondness for classic rock and for some newer stuff as well, but here he makes artists like Tom Petty and Elton John do a lot of the work that he and his actors should be doing. There is something both desperate and lazy about Mr. Crowe's assumption that sublime sentiments can be conjured up with a click of the iPod. There is also something sad in watching this talented writer try, again and again, to recapture the unguarded rapture of the ''you had me at hello'' scene in ''Jerry Maguire,'' as characters gaze into each others' eyes and speak nicely written prose.
 That was a great moment, and perhaps it's unfair to measure ''Elizabethtown,'' which in spite of everything has some fine moments of its own, against it. Still, there is something both overreaching and strangely defensive about this movie. Early on, Drew muses that American culture is obsessed with success and not interested in greatness, and it is hard to resist the conclusion that he is ventriloquizing his creator, whose last two films, ''Almost Famous'' and ''Vanilla Sky,'' were hugely ambitious and widely seen as disappointments. Drew, presented without irony as an athletic-shoe visionary, may be humiliated, but he is never truly humbled, and Mr. Bloom makes his supposed agonies look like mild distress.
 When Claire describes herself and Drew as ''substitute people'' she means that they are temporarily standing in for other, absent lovers. As an excuse for why they can't be together this is woefully unconvincing, but it does reveal the facile zero-sum economy that governs the movie's idea of human experience. Lose a job, find a girl. Lose a father, find an extended family, and so on. It all works out. Such optimism, of course, is one of the great consolations of American movies. A convincing happy ending -- true love, fresh dreams, the open road -- offers a secular vision of grace. But in this glib, sloppy movie, which recoils from authentic expressions of loss, sorrow or frustration, happiness seems more like an entitlement, taken for granted rather than longed for or earned. 
 What makes ''Elizabethtown'' so frustrating, and also what saves it from being merely bad, is that Drew's pat little tale of romance and redemptions overshadows a much richer movie, one about Elizabethtown itself. It's a noisy, complicated place full of intriguing characters and stories, and it allows Mr. Crowe to kick back with a large, loose ensemble of marvelous supporting actors. ''Elizabethtown'' is a long, lurching trip to nowhere in particular, but Elizabethtown is a place where you wouldn't mind spending some more time, though perhaps under different circumstances. 
 ''Elizabethtown'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has some strong language and sexual situations.

Elizabethtown
Opens today nationwide.

Written and directed by Cameron Crowe; director of photography, John Toll; edited by David Moritz; music by Nancy Wilson; production designer, Clay A. Griffith; produced by Tom Cruise, Paula Wagner and Mr. Crowe; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 121 minutes.

WITH: Orlando Bloom (Drew Baylor), Kirsten Dunst (Claire), Susan Sarandon (Hollie Baylor), Alec Baldwin (Phil), Bruce McGill (Bill Banyon), Judy Greer (Heather Baylor), Jessica Biel (Ellen) and Paul Schneider (Jessie).


GRAPHIC: Photos: A found romance: Kirsten Dunst and Orlando Bloom. (Photo by Neal Preston/Paramount Pictures)(pg. E1)
 Alec Baldwin, left, and Orlando Bloom in ''Elizabethtown.'' (Photo by Neal Preston/Paramount Pictures)(pg. E29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); FOOTWEAR (61%); SUICIDE (50%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: ALEC BALDWIN (58%) A O Scott; Cameron Crowe; Orlando Bloom; Kirsten Dunst

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (91%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



274 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE LISTINGS OCT. 14-OCT. 20; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 15793 words

 BODY:

Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.

Previews and Openings

'BEOWULF' Opens Sunday. The medieval epic poem becomes a 21st-century rock opera in this Irish Repertory Theater production, with a score by Lenny Pickett, the musical director of ''Saturday Night Live'' (1:15). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212)727-2737.

'FIVE COURSE LOVE' Opens Sunday. On the menu are five dates in five restaurants, put to music in five styles, including operetta and country-western (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212)307-4100.

'A SOLDIER'S PLAY' Opens Monday. The first major New York revival of Charles Fuller's play about the trial of a black soldier during World War II. With Taye Diggs and James McDaniel (1:55). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212)246-4422.

'ABSURD PERSON SINGULAR' Opens Tuesday. The latest production of this comedy by the unstoppably prolific Alan Ayckbourn is about three couples and takes place over three holiday seasons (2:30). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212)239-6200.

'4:48 PSYCHOSE' Opens Wednesday. The great French actress Isabelle Huppert makes her American stage debut in the last play that the great English playwright Sarah Kane wrote before committing suiide (1:45). Part of the Next Wave Festival. Performed in French with abridged English titles. Brooklyn Academy of Music, Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718)636-4100.

'IN MY LIFE' Opens Thursday. Love blossoms between a musician with Tourette's syndrome and an insecure journalist in this Broadway musical, directed and written by Joseph Brooks (1:45). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200.

'THE ARK' Previews start today. Opens November 14. Find out what Noah's family thought of his crazy-seeming idea in this musical about the back story of the biblical flood and the animals and people who survived. Annie Golden and Adrian Zmed star in this show with music by the songwriter Michael McLean (2:00). 37 Arts-Theater B, 450 West 37th Street, (212)307-4100.

'INDIA AWAITING' Previews start tomorrow. Opens October 23. Anne Marie Cummings's new love story is about an Indian man, a Spanish-American woman and their respective families dealing with their cross-cultural romance (2:00). Samuel Beckett Theater on Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212)279-4200.

'JERSEY BOYS' Opens Nov. 6. Straight from La Jolla Playhouse in California, this rags-to-riches musical tells the story of Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons, featuring hits that include ''Big Girls Don't Cry'' and ''Rag Doll.'' Des McAnuff directs (2:30). Beginning Sunday, the theater will be renamed the August Wilson Theater. Virginia Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212)239-6200.

'KARLA' Previews start Thursday. Opens October 23. The Grammy-winning musician Steve Earle, who starred in the political docudrama ''The Exonerated,'' takes up the issue of the death penalty once again, but this time as a playwright in this drama about Karla Faye Tucker, the first woman in Texas since the Civil War to receive the death penalty and have it carried out (1:30). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, East Village, (212)352-3101.

'MANIC FLIGHT REACTION' Previews start Thursday. Opens October 30. A middle-age professor faces the prospect of tabloid scrutiny and invasion of privacy when a past affair with the wife of a leading presidential candidate threatens to go public. Trip Cullman directs Sarah Schulman's comedy (2:00). Peter Jay Sharp Theater, Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212)279-4200.

'THE ODD COUPLE' Opens Oct. 27. A little Neil Simon revival you might have heard of, starring Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick as Oscar and Felix. Joe Mantello directs (2:10). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212)307-4100.

'SEE WHAT I WANT TO SEE' Opens Oct. 30. Michael John LaChiusa's highly anticipated new musical stars Idina Menzel and Marc Kudisch and features three contemporary stories based on the work of the Japanese writer Ryonosuke Akutagawa (2:00). The Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212)239-6200.

'SWEENEY TODD' Opens Nov. 3. Patti LuPone and Michael Cerveris star in this intimate revival of the Sondheim classic, featuring 10 actors who play their own instruments. It started at the Watermill Theater in England, before moving to the West End and Broadway (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212)239-6200.

'THIRD' Opens Oct. 24. A professor played by Dianne Wiest accuses a student of plagiarism in Wendy Wasserstein's latest. Daniel Sullivan directs (2:00). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212)239-6200.

Broadway

'CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG' The playthings are the thing in this lavish windup music box of a show: windmills, Rube Goldbergesque machines and the show's title character, a flying car. It's like spending two and a half hours in the Times Square branch of Toys ''R'' Us (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212)307-4100. (Ben Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' On paper this musical tale of two mismatched scam artists has an awful lot in common with ''The Producers.'' But if you are going to court comparison with giants, you had better be prepared to stand tall. ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels,'' starring John Lithgow and Norbert Leo Butz, never straightens out of a slouch (2:35). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

*'DOUBT, A PARABLE' (Pulitzer Prize, Best Play 2005, and Tony Award, Best Play 2005) Set in the Bronx in 1964, this play by John Patrick Shanley is structured as a clash of wills and generations between Sister Aloysius (Cherry Jones), the head of a parochial school, and Father Flynn (Brian F. O'Byrne), the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge. The play's elements bring to mind those tidy topical melodramas that were once so popular. But Mr. Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions (1:30). Walter Kerr, 219 West 48th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many-flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'A NAKED GIRL ON THE APPIAN WAY' Could it be that the exhaustingly prolific Richard Greenberg has been even busier than anyone suspected? This clunky farce about the limits of liberalism, directed by Doug Hughes and starring a miscast Richard Thomas and Jill Clayburgh, suggests Mr. Greenberg has been moonlighting as a gag writer for sitcoms and is now recycling his discarded one-liners (1:45). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212)719-1300. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2005) This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Still, it seems safe to say that such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence will find a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'SWEET CHARITY' This revival of the 1966 musical never achieves more than a low-grade fever when what's wanted is that old steam heat. In the title role of the hopeful dance-hall hostess, the appealing but underequipped Christina Applegate is less a shopworn angel than a merry cherub (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

*'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around. (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212)239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

Off Broadway

*'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 4, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200.(Isherwood)

* 'CRESTFALL' Taking place in a town described by one character as ''this insidious vicinity, the savage quarter, this perpetual crestfall,'' the speeding train of a play, which features three interconnected monologues spoken by a sex addict, a frigid woman and a whore, reveals a writer who loves words almost as much as he does dirty jokes and bloody faces. Since he made his first American splash with ''Howie the Rookie'' in 2001, Mark O'Rowe, who writes likes a mix of Samuel Beckett and Martin McDonagh, has grown in confidence, if not in maturity (1:15). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, between Park and Madison Avenues, (212)279-4200. (Jason Zinoman)

'CYCLING PAST THE MATTERHORN' A grating comedy-drama by Deborah Grimberg about the fractious relationship between a mother and daughter. Shirley Knight plays Esther, a needy, needling woman who discovers she's going blind just as her daughter leaves the nest. Carrie Preston is her needy, self-absorbed daughter (1:35). Harold Clurman Theater on Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212)279-4200.(Isherwood)

'DRUMSTRUCK' This noisy novelty is a mixed blessing. Providing a two-foot drum on every seat, it offers an opportunity to exorcise aggressions by delivering a good beating, and on a slightly more elevated level, it presents a superficial introduction to African culture, lessons in drumming and 90 minutes of nonstop music, song and dancing by a good-natured cast (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 2, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200.(Lawrence Van Gelder)

'EINSTEIN'S GIFT' Vern Thiessen's potentially moving play about two German-Jewish Nobel winners -- the physicist Albert Einstein and the chemist Fritz Haber -- their differing conceptions of science's role and the martial use to which their work is put, is marred by unnecessary ''Odd Couple'' exchanges and a miscast Haber, but benefits from good performances by Shawn Elliott as Einstein and Melissa Friedman as Haber's wife (2:00). Acorn Theater on Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212)279-4200. (Andrea Stevens)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE GREAT AMERICAN TRAILER PARK MUSICAL' A terrific cast keeps the generator running in this bright but flimsy contraption. A few of David Nehls's dozen ditties raise a hearty chuckle, like the valedictory anthem in which the show's heroines collectively vow to ''make like a nail and press on.'' But Betsy Kelso's book all but dispenses with plot, and substitutes crude cartoons for characters (2:00). Dodger Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212239-6200. (Isherwood)

*'IN THE CONTINUUM' A spirited, smart and powerful portrait of two black women whose lives are suddenly upended by an H.I.V. diagnosis. Written by and starring Danai Gurira and Nikkole Salter, who both possess the strong presence and confident technique to bring out the subtle force and the potent flavoring in their writing (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, between Park and Madison Avenues, (212)279-4200. (Isherwood)

'THE LADIES OF THE CORRIDOR' The Peccadillo Theater Company has revived this 1953 play by Dorothy Parker and Arnaud D'Usseau. A comedy set in an East Side hotel populated by widows and divorcees, it is an unyielding and coruscating portrait of women before feminism, relieved by Parker's dead-on wit. East 13th Street Theater, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212)279-4200.(Honor Moore)

'LATE FRAGMENT' Matthew, a World Trade Center employee who survived Sept. 11, and Marta are a desperate couple falling out of love in Francine Volpe's often perceptive if muddled drama named after a Raymond Carver poem. Under the direction of Michael Imperioli (Christopher from ''The Sopranos'') and Zetna Fuentes, the play has a wobbly style, building tension only to diffuse it with less-than-credible moments (1:30). Studio Dante, 257 West 29th Street, Chelsea, (212)279-4200. (Zinoman)

'MARION BRIDGE' The Canadian playwright Daniel McIvor takes a quiet, honest look at three sisters as they face their mother's death. It is well acted and well directed, if too predictable in spots (2:20). Urban Stages, 259 West 30th Street, (212)868-4444. (Margo Jefferson)

'THE MASTER BUILDER' A revival that succeeds mainly through a fine performance by Dan Daily as the superstar architect of the title. Mr. Daily brings the character's tangle of contradictions together in a credible performance that manages to find the hidden troll in the artistic genius (2:20). Pearl Theater, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212)598-9802.(Wilborn Hampton)

'THE MUSICAL OF MUSICALS!' The musical is the happy narcissist of theater; parody is the best form of narcissism. All it needs are smart writers and winning performers. That's what we get in this case (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 5, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200. (Jefferson)

'ONE-MAN STAR WARS TRILOGY' With a storm trooper roaming the aisles and a woman in an Obi-Wan Kenobi get-up telling theatergoers to turn off their cellphones or they will be turned into ''cosmic dust,'' Charles Ross's sprint through Episodes IV through VI strives for the atmosphere of a ''Star Wars'' convention, but ends up achieving something like a religious revival (which is sort of the same thing). True believers will love how Mr. Ross, a self-confessed geek who plays every major role in under an hour, simulates R2D2, but everyone else will scratch their heads (1:00). Lamb's Theater, 130 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200. (Zinoman)

*'ORSON'S SHADOW' Austin Pendleton's play, about a 1960 production of Ionesco's ''Rhinoceros,'' which was directed by Orson Welles and starred Laurence Olivier, is a sharp-witted but tenderhearted backstage comedy about the thin skins, inflamed nerves and rampaging egos that are the customary side effects when sensitivity meets success (2:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, Greenwich Village, (212)239-6200. (Isherwood)

'THE PAVILION' Craig Wright's play about the speedy wheels of time's winged chariot and the dreams it grinds into dust is set at a small-town high school reunion. Brian D'Arcy James aches with longing as the cad who wants a second chance. Gracefully directed by Lucie Tiberghien (2:00). Rattlestick Theater, 224 Waverly Place, at 11th Street, West Village, (212)868-4444. (Isherwood)

*'SIDES: THE FEAR IS REAL' This hilarious collection of sketches may send up familiar targets -- the insecure thespian, the fraudulent acting teacher, the arrogant Juilliard grad -- but since it's performed with such specificity and comic charm by actors firing on all cylinders, you won't care a whit. Written by and starring an entirely Asian-American cast, this slight but consistently entertaining satire is a primer on what not to do in an audition room (1:15). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)307-4100. (Zinoman)

'SLUT' This overamplified musical comedy about love and promiscuity among East Village friends leans heavily on obscenities to lend it a daring edge. Instead, it swamps even its brightest moments in tawdriness (2:00). American Theater of Actors, 314 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200. (Miriam Horn)

'WALKING DOWN BROADWAY' Dawn Powell's 1931 tale of young people looking for life and love in New York is packed with smart dialogue and honest emotions. It is also well directed, well acted and smartly designed (2:30). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212)315-0231. (Jefferson)

Off Off Broadway

'BELLY OF A DRUNKEN PIANO' In this splendidly imperfect cabaret, Stewart D'Arrietta howls and growls convincingly through Tom Waits's three-decade song catalog, backed by a snappy trio. His patter and his piano playing are variable, but Mr. D'Arrietta makes a genial tour guide through Mr. Waits's wee-hours world (1:45). Huron Club at SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Varick Street, (212)691-1555. (Rob Kendt)

Long-Running Shows

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212)307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212)239-6200.(Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'MOVIN' OUT' The miracle dance musical that makes Billy Joel cool (2:00). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

*'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin are stirring up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212)307-4100.(Van Gelder)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'DEDICATION, OR THE STUFF OF DREAMS' Portraying a terminally ill, rancidly rich misanthrope in Terrence McNally's play about a small-town children's theater troupe, Marian Seldes is a snappy advertisement for the time-defying benefits of a religious devotion to theater. She is, in fact, what ''Dedication'' is all about, or intends to be, anyway. Burdened with soap-opera-ish plot turns and artificially bright dialogue, this comedy of mortality never seems able to convince itself that life and art trump death and doubt. (2:15). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212)279-4200, closing Sunday. (Brantley)

'THE GREAT AMERICAN DESERT' Garrett Ayers, who calls his latest company the TryTryAgain Theater, says this is his third attempt at staging this short play from 1961 by Joel Oppenheimer. It's fun. It's performed with spunk. It's got cowboys. Sure, it's indecipherable, but hey, it's less than an hour long (55 minutes). 78th Street Theater Lab, 236 West 78th Street, (800)838-3006, closing Sunday.( Genzlinger)

*'THE INTELLIGENT DESIGN OF JENNY CHOW' In Rolin Jones's fanciful comedy, playfully directed by Jackson Gay, a lonely young woman in California embarks on an ambitious science project to help conquer her agoraphobia and trace her origins in China. Brisk, funny and engaging, the play disappoints only in its emphasis on flights of fancy over a nuanced depiction of its heroine's emotional dilemmas (2:10). Atlantic Theater Company, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212)239-6200, closing tomorrow.(Isherwood)

'ONCE AROUND THE SUN' The ''sun'' of the title could be the talent and energy of the show's impressive cast: you can warm your hands on them and on the catchy music. Unfortunately, the book fails to capitalize on these strengths, instead presenting a trite fable about a young rock singer seduced by celebrity, with cardboard characters, despite the actors' best efforts to give them dimension. Still, the performances are very entertaining (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200, closing Sunday. (Anne Midgette)

*'POOR THEATER' Part homage and part anatomy, the Wooster Group's warm, witty tribute to the director Jerzy Grotowski and the choreographer William Forsythe demonstrates how imitation can be not just sincere flattery but also a hopeful attempt to crawl into someone else's skin to see how it fits. As identities and their representations morph and blur, this is not always a comfortable activity, but it is often an exhilarating one (1:30). Performing Garage, 33 Wooster Street, between Broome and Grand Streets, SoHo, (212)868-4444, closing tomorrow. (Brantley)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'BEFORE THE FALL' (No rating, 110 minutes, in German) Dennis Gansel's intensely beautiful film brings us inside one of Hitler's elite schools used to indoctrinate future leaders to observe the fate of a young amateur boxer and his sensitive roommate. Though somewhat overdetermined, the film is a chilling testament to the seductiveness of groupthink and the allure of imagined superiority.(Jeannette Catsoulis)

* 'BROKEN FLOWERS' (R, 105 minutes) Sweet, funny, sad and meandering, Jim Jarmusch's new film sends Bill Murray's aging Don Juan out in search of a son he never knew he had. He finds four former lovers, including Sharon Stone and Jessica Lange, and reveals once again that he is the quietest and finest comic actor working in movies today. (A.O. Scott)

* 'CAPOTE' (R, 114 minutes) Philip Seymour Hoffman's portrayal of Truman Capote is a tour de force of psychological insight. Following the novelist as he works on the magazine assignment that will become ''In Cold Blood,'' the film raises intriguing questions about the ethics of writing. (Scott)

*'THE CONSTANT GARDENER' (R, 129 minutes) A superior thriller with a conscience, from John le Carre's novel. (Scott)

'DANDELION' (No rating, 93 minutes) Mark Milgard's debut film is an affectedly glum slice of life about a depressed teenager in rural Washington State who takes the rap for his father after a hit-and-run accident. (Stephen Holden)

'EVERYTHING IS ILLUMINATED' (PG-13, 104 minutes) From Jonathan Safran Foer's novel, a sentimental Holocaust tale; tender and funny in places, but also thin and soft. (Scott)

'THE EXORCISM OF EMILY ROSE' (PG-13, 114 minutes) If you must see only one demonic-possession courtroom drama this year, wait for the next one. (Scott)

'FLIGHTPLAN' (PG-13, 93 minutes) To watch Jodie Foster storm through a phony airplane as a mother in search of her missing child has its very minor pleasures, but there is nothing in this thrill-free thriller to feed the head or fray the nerves. (Manohla Dargis)

*'THE 40-YEAR-OLD VIRGIN' (R, 111 minutes) A sex comedy turned romantic bliss-out, with Steve Carell, in which the sound of one prophylactic snapping is just a single sweet note in the glorious symphony of love. (Dargis)

*'GOOD NIGHT, AND GOOD LUCK' (PG, 90 minutes) George Clooney, with impressive rigor and intelligence, examines the confrontation between the CBS newsman Edward R. Murrow (a superb David Strathairn) and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy (himself). Plunging you into a smoky, black-and-white world of political paranoia and commercial pressure, the film is both a history lesson and a passionate essay on power, responsibility and the ethics of journalism (Scott)

'GOING SHOPPING' (PG-13, 106 minutes) As loquacious and scatterbrained as its female characters, this Henry Jaglom film explores women's shopping habits and fantasies. Its incomplete sketches revolve around an upscale dress shop on the verge of bankruptcy. (Holden)

'THE GOSPEL' (PG, 105 minutes) Set against a lively, music-filled African-American church, ''The Gospel,'' written and directed by Rob Hardy, and with many talented real-life gospel superstars blended into the large and able cast, endeavors to be a powerful tale of faith and forgiveness, but in the end fails to capture even the slightest essence of spirituality and religious belief, or to provide any real insight into its characters' conflicts, desires and motivations.(Laura Kern)

'THE GREATEST GAME EVER PLAYED' (PG, 115 minutes) A rousing, obvious re-creation of the 1913 United States Open, in which two sons of the working classes faced off in a game still dominated, on both sides of the Atlantic, by the well-born. Aims for par and makes it. (Scott)

*'GRIZZLY MAN' (R, 103 minutes) Werner Herzog's bold, enthralling documentary about one man's journey into the heart of darkness (and the belly of the beast) traces the life and strange times of the self-anointed grizzly expert Timothy Treadwell. (Dargis)

* 'A HISTORY OF VIOLENCE' (R, 97 minutes) A masterpiece of indirection and pure visceral thrills about a seemingly average American family almost undone by cataclysmic violence, David Cronenberg's latest mindblower is the feel-good, feel-bad movie of the year. With Viggo Mortensen, Maria Bello, Ed Harris and William Hurt, all excellent. (Dargis)

* 'IN HER SHOES' (PG-13, 130 yes, 130 minutes) In his newest film, Curtis Hanson (''L. A. Confidential'') wrests a richly textured story of love from a seemingly unlikely source, Jennifer Weiner's breezy best-selling fiction about two sisters -- played by Cameron Diaz and Toni Collette -- engaged in an epic battle of the heart, a fight waged mostly against each other and their own best interests.(Dargis)

'JUST LIKE HEAVEN' (PG-13, 95 minutes) Reese Witherspoon's disembodied spirit haunts Mark Ruffalo in a real estate dispute that runs into a sweet romantic comedy. Surprisingly lighthearted and brisk, considering its fairly morbid premise.(Scott)

'LORD OF WAR' (R, 122 minutes) A misfire of a political satire about the international gun market from Andrew Niccol, a filmmaker whose words say no, but whose overworked visual style says lock and load, baby. (Dargis)

'MAGNIFICENT DESOLATION: WALKING ON THE MOON 3D' (No rating, 40 minutes) Tom Hanks narrates this Imax film that tries to give moviegoers the virtual experience of being on the lunar surface. At times it comes close. (Anita Gates)

*'MARCH OF THE PENGUINS' (G, 80 minutes) This sentimental but riveting documentary follows the one-year mating cycle of emperor penguins in Antarctica when they leave the ocean and march inland to breed and lay eggs. Narrated by Morgan Freeman, the film has no qualms about playing on our emotions. (Holden)

'MIRRORMASK' (PG, 101 minutes) This British film, directed by Dave McKean from a screenplay by Neil Gaiman, blends live action with computer-generated animation by the Jim Henson Company into a provocative, murky surrealism. The story follows the Freudian nightmare of a 15-year-old girl whose parents work in the circus; it's strictly for cultists. (Holden)

* 'OLIVER TWIST' (PG-13, 130 minutes) Roman Polanski's take on Dickens's classic emphasizes the darkness and cruelty of Victorian society. Vigorous and precise, it is a vivid reminder of the novelist's power as both a storyteller and a social critic. (Scott)

* 'THE PRIZE WINNER OF DEFIANCE, OHIO' (PG-13, 99 minutes) Julianne Moore is radiant as Evelyn Ryan, the real-life 1950's Ohio housewife and mother of 10 who kept her family afloat on her winnings from television jingle contests. Jane Anderson wrote and directed this tribute in a wonderfully zany, off-center style. (Holden)

'ROLL BOUNCE' (PG-13, 107 minutes) A drowsy comedy from Malcolm D. Lee about a handful of kids grooving and roller skating in the summer of 1978, ''Roll Bounce'' has heart and good vibes but little else to recommend it. (Dargis)

'SEPARATE LIES' (R, 87 minutes) A hit-and-run accident near the country house of an imperious British lawyer (magnificently played by Tom Wilkinson) leads him into an ethical labyrinth that tests his moral mettle as well as that of his wife (Emily Watson) and her lover (Rupert Everett). (Holden)

'SERENITY' (PG-13, 119 minutes) It probably isn't fair to Joss Whedon's ''Serenity'' to say that this unassuming science-fiction adventure is superior in almost every respect to George Lucas's aggressively more ambitious ''Star Wars: Episode III -- Revenge of the Sith.'' But who cares about fair when there is fun to be had? Scene for scene, ''Serenity'' is more engaging and certainly better written and acted than any of Mr. Lucas's recent screen entertainments. (Dargis)

* 'THE SQUID AND THE WHALE' (R, 88 minutes) Mining his own childhood, Noah Baumbach has put together an unsparing, funny portrait of a family in crisis and a young man trying to figure out his parents and himself. Superbly written and acted, especially by Laura Linney and Jeff Daniels as a pair of divorcing writers. (Scott)

'TIM BURTON'S CORPSE BRIDE' (PG-13, 90 minutes) A necrophiliac animation for the whole family about a melancholic boy, the girl he hopes to marry and the bodacious cadaver that accidentally comes between them. (Dargis)

* 'TOUCH THE SOUND' (No rating, 99 minutes) As Thomas Riedelsheimer's enlightening, mystical documentary follows the deaf Scottish percussionist Evelyn Glennie around the globe, it illustrates her understanding that sound is a physical sensation experienced throughout the body, as well as an auditory one. (Holden)

'TWO FOR THE MONEY' (R, 122 minutes) A turgid male weepie in which Matthew McConaughey plays a former college quarterback turned sports-betting guru under the loud tutelage of Al Pacino's odds-making kingpin. (Dargis)

* 'WALLACE & GROMIT: THE CURSE OF THE WERE-RABBIT' (G, 85 minutes) The stop-motion pooch and his cheese-loving master, back again at feature length. Silly and sublime. (Scott) FILM SERIES

AFTER WAR (Through Oct. 23) The Japan Society is commemorating the 60th anniversary of the end of World War II with this series of works about wartime and its aftermath. This Sunday's feature is ''Japanese Devils'' (''Riben Guizi''), Minoru Matsui's 2001 documentary in which 14 elderly veterans talk about war crimes in China. At 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212)832-1155; $10. (Gates)

CHILDREN IN THE 20TH CENTURY (Through Nov. 22) Symphony Space Thalia Film presents an international program of films focusing on problems that affect children, beginning on Sunday with two dramas. Hector Babenco's ''Pixote'' (Brazil, 1981), named best foreign-language film by the New York Film Critics Circle, is about homeless orphans. John Cassavetes's ''Gloria'' (1980) stars Gena Rowlands as a gangster's moll on the run with a boy who witnessed a Mafia murder. Leonard Nimoy Thalia, Broadway and 95th Street, (212)864-5400; $10. (Gates)

FOREVER GARBO: A RETROSPECTIVE (Through Dec. 17) The American-Scandinavian Foundation's program honoring Greta Garbo's centennial continues tomorrow with ''Love'' (1927), a silent version of ''Anna Karenina,'' with John Gilbert as Vronsky. On Wednesday the feature is ''A Woman of Affairs'' (1928), a silent version of ''The Green Hat,'' Michael Arlen's novel about a reckless rich girl widowed on her wedding night. Scandinavia House, 58 Park Avenue, between 37th and 38th Street, (212)879-9779; $8. (Gates)

FRANCOIS TRUFFAUT (Through Nov. 27) The IFC Center's Weekend Classics program is presenting a dozen Truffaut features and two shorts. This weekend's film, to be screened at noon today through Monday, is ''Bed and Board'' (1970), in which the filmmaker's alter ego (Jean-Pierre Leaud) is a newlywed expectant father having an affair. At 323 Avenue of the Americas, at West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212)924-7771; $10.75. (Gates)

REPERTORY NIGHTS (Through Nov. 6) The Museum of the Moving Image continues its annual film series today, tomorrow and Sunday with Truffaut's ''Jules et Jim'' (1961), in which Jeanne Moreau teaches moviegoers what a civilized menage a trois is all about. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718)784-0077; $10. (Gates)

UNSEEN CINEMA: EARLY AMERICAN AVANT-GARDE FILM 1894-1941 (Through Sunday) The Museum of the Moving Image, Anthology Film Archives and Deutsches Filmmuseum of Frankfurt are sponsoring a weekend of rarely screened films from the industry's earliest days. The program includes ''Blacksmithing Scene'' (1893), ''Interior N.Y. Subway, 14th St. to 42nd St.'' (1905), Fernand Leger and Dudley Murphy's ''Ballet Mecanique'' (1923-24) and Ernst Lubitsch's ''So This Is Paris (Artist's Ball)'' (1926). 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718)784-0077; $10. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

ATMOSPHERE, BLUEPRINT, P.O.S. (Tonight) The charismatic Minneapolis underground rapper Slug, the anchor of Atmosphere, is famous for his quirky Midwestern narratives and intimate revelations. Blueprint and P.O.S. also perform. 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212)777-6800; $20. (Laura Sinagra)

THE BRAVERY, INTERNATIONAL NOISE CONSPIRACY (Thursday) A less downcast version of neo-new-wave, the Bravery is tougher than its contemporaries like the Killers, if not always as much fun. International Noise Conspiracy plays politically minded garage rock that's been getting less political lately. 6:30 p.m., Roseland Ballroom, 239 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212)247-0200; $23.50. (Sinagra)

BLUES TRAVELER (Sunday) The jam-band Blues Traveler gives its fans an occasion to twirl in their tie-dyed T-shirts while the band stretches whiny songs into jams featuring John Popper's high-speed harmonica. 8 p.m., Nokia Theater Times Square, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, ticketmaster.com or (212)307-7171; $25. (Jon Pareles)

JUNIOR BROWN, ABIGAIL WASHBURN (Tuesday) Junior Brown has his own instrument: the doublenecked ''guit-steel'' allows him to play biting electric guitar leads in one verse and suave steel guitar in the next. In most of his music he's a country traditionalist, true to honky-tonk tempos and the deadpan baritone vocal style of Ernest Tubb. Every so often he lets loose a Jimi Hendrix lick. Abigail Washburn opens. 8 p.m., B.B. King's Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212)997-4144; $18 in advance, $20 at the door. (Pareles)

CARL COX (Tomorrow) The British D.J. Carl Cox, who has been playing the big clubs since disco, plays techno and house-based mixes more eclectic than standard trance. 10 p.m., Crobar, 530 West 28th Street, Chelsea, (212)629-9000; $30. (Sinagra)

BLACKEST OF THE BLACK: DANZIG AND GUESTS (Monday) The stout, muscularly macabre rocker Glen Danzig and his eponymous heavy-metal band lead a lineup of similar acts: Himsa, Mortiis, Chimaira, Behemoth and the Agony Scene. 6:30 p.m., Nokia Theater Times Square, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street; ticketmaster.com or (212)307-7171; $28.50. (Sinagra)

DEATH CAB FOR CUTIE (Wednesday and Thursday) This decorous diarist-rock band's sound gets added alternative-rock heft on its new album, ''Plans'' (Atlantic). The melodic Australian poppers Youth Group open both nights, with the dreamy but prickly Canadian pop band the Stars joining the bill on Thursday. 6:30 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212)279-7740; $25.50. (Sinagra)

DEVENDRA BANHART (Thursday) Mr. Banhart's eerie, wavery voice and stream-of-consciousness songs reach back to the childlike surrealism of some of psychedelia's most beloved oddballs: Syd Barrett and the preglam rock of Marc Bolan. 7:30 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212)353-1600;$20 in advance, $25 at the door. (Pareles)

DUNGEN (Tomorrow and Sunday) This Swedish band's biker-rock combines humongous riffing with whimsical jams, conjuring black-leather aggression and the pastoral wonder of the open road. 9 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111; $15. (Sinagra)

THE FIERY FURNACES (Tonight) This brother-and-sister art-rock duo's music cuts melodies with carnivalesque keyboard vamps and digressive skronk. Their latest conceptual project sets to music some recorded interviews with their grandmother about her mid-20th-century travails. 9 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212)840-2824; $20. (Sinagra)

FOO FIGHTERS, WEEZER, HOT HOT HEAT (Tonight) Dave Grohl, the former Nirvana drummer, has been leading the energetic alt-rock Foo Fighters for a decade, proving that cocky affability goes a long way. The nerd-pop masters Weezer continue to write textbook pop melodies, but their scruffiest album, 1996's ''Pinkerton'' (Geffen) is the favorite of a fanatical cult of emo kids. The peppy rockers Hot Hot Heat open. 7 p.m., Continental Airlines Arena, East Rutherford, N.J., (201)935-3900; $30.50 to $42.50. (Sinagra)

FRANZ FERDINAND, TV ON THE RADIO (Monday) At the vanguard of the post -- post-punk trend, the poker-faced Franz Ferdinand plays herky-jerky party music. TV on the Radio tops its jittery rhythms and paranoid guitars with the haunting vocal yelps of Tunde Adebimpe and Kyp Malone. 7:30 p.m., Theater at Madison Square Garden, 33rd Street and Seventh Avenue, Manhattan; (212)465-6741; $40. (Sinagra)

JIMMIE DALE GILMORE (Tuesday) The Texas troubadour Jimmie Dale Gilmore has been equating wistful Western expanse with the mysteries of existence for three decades. He has a new album, covering songs that were favorites of his father. 7 and 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212)239-6200; $25 in advance, $30 at the door. (Pareles)

KRISTIN HERSH (Sunday) The singer-songwriter, who led the mid-90's band Throwing Muses and found underground fame giving punk rock a twist of Wiccan ethereality, continues to make unflinching music about the modern female condition, among other things. 7:30 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212)219-3132; $14. (Sinagra)

ILL EASE (Tonight) The drummer and singer-songwriter Elizabeth Sharp, whose thin, insistent voice recalls the Velvet Underground's Mo Tucker, repeats inspired OCD chants matter-of-factly over her entrancing rattletrap grooves and her guitarist's distorted, looping riffs. 8:30 p.m., Cake Shop, 152 Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212)253-0036; $7. (Sinagra)

JUANA MOLINA (Thursday) The reveries of the Argentine songwriter Juana Molina are built from her acoustic guitar picking, her hushed voice, melodies with the simplicity of lullabies and rustling, rippling, melting synthesizer backdrops that fill the songs with mystery. 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212)539-8770; $15. (Pareles)

JASON MRAZ, RAUL MIDON (Sunday and Monday) Jason Mraz plays countrified, roots pop in the coffeehouse vein. The vocalist and multi-instrumentalist Raul Midon has contributed his talents to the work of many Latin pop superstars. He plays his own material here. 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212)875-5766; $35.50. (Sinagra)

MY MORNING JACKET, KATHLEEN EDWARDS (Monday) With his atmospheric take on Southern rock, My Morning Jacket's Jim James conjures a fantasy of Neil Young and Lynyrd Skynyrd jamming together, stoned, in an echo chamber. The singer-songwriter Kathleen Edwards opens. 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212)353-1600; $25. (Sinagra)

LIZ PHAIR, MATT POND (Monday and Tuesday) One of the 90's most riveting indie-rock singer-songwriters, the smart, sexually candid Liz Phair has been angling for a radio hit for a few albums now. Her new ''Somebody's Miracle'' (Capitol) is again too quirky for MTV, but too slick-sounding for indie devotees. Opener Matt Pond writes pleasing, if forgettable, pop songs. 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212)777-6800; $25. (Sinagra)

SON VOLT, FRUIT BATS (Wednesday) Son Volt's Jay Farrar, the gruff-voiced, country-rock half of the seminal alt-country band Uncle Tupelo, has gone in a different direction from his former bandmate, Wilco's Jeff Tweedy, preferring stolid reflection to stylistic adventurism. The ruminative folk-pop band the Fruit Bats opens. 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212)353-1600; $20 in advance, $25 at the door. (Sinagra)

SUPERPITCHER, ADA (Wednesday) The German producer Aksel Schaufler, aka Superpitcher, can make pure electropop as well as create a mood of glitchy claustrophobia. The singer and producer Ada recorded a stripped-down Kraftwerk-style version of the neo-punk Yeah Yeah Yeah's gem ''Maps.'' 11 p.m., Canal Room, 285 West Broadway, at Canal Street, Chinatown, (212)941-8100; $10 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sinagra)

ROB THOMAS (Tuesday and Wednesday) The singer for the popular rock group Matchbox 20 is remaking himself as a pinup boy and trying his hand at hip-hop-inflected pop songs. This incarnation has yet to be as compelling as the last, though his voice still carries a convincing mainstream angst and he rides grooves with ease. 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212)496-7070; $38.50 to $78.50. (Sinagra)

U2, KEANE (Tonight) After 2000's thrilling ''All That You Can't Leave Behind'' (Interscope), U2's latest album, ''How to Dismantle an Atomic Bomb'' (Interscope), and its ''Vertigo'' tour focus on what humans can live without: namely, intercontinental ballistic missiles and, evidently, some of U2's more shopworn live staples. Hence the resurrection of decades-old rarities like ''Electric Co.'' Keane is a piano-drums-vocals band that piles on hooky melodic flourishes. 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, 33rd Street and Seventh Avenue, Manhattan, (212)465-6741; $54.00 to $169.50. (Sinagra)

JOHN VANDERSLICE, PORTASTATIC (Tonight and tomorrow) A collaborator of the Mountain Goats' clever songsmith John Darnielle, Mr. Vanderslice also writes his own less clever songs. Portastatic, the Superchunk leader Mac McCaughan's longstanding home-studio side project, opens. Tonight at 11, Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212)219-3132; $12. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)230-0236; $12. (Sinagra)

KELLER WILLIAMS (Tonight) The guitarist and singer Keller Williams has been working the jam-band circuit; using loop and echo effects he turns his 10-stringed guitar into a full band. His mild voice has more than a touch of James Taylor, but his fast fingers delight the kind of fan one of his songs describes as a ''Freaker by the Speaker.'' 9 p.m., Nokia Theater Times Square, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street; ticketmaster.com or (212)307-7171; $22.50. (Pareles)

WACO BROTHERS BLOODSHOT REVUE (Tonight) Jon Langford of the Mekons indulges his country side even more strongly in the Waco Brothers, where he trades off lead vocals with Dean Schlabowske and ricochets between revolution and beer-soaked self-pity while letting his electric guitar blare. The Mekons' Sally Timms joins the bill. 8 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)230-0236; $14. (Pareles)

YONDER MOUNTAIN STRING BAND (Thursday) Yonder Mountain String Band, from Colorado, carries a traditionalist bluegrass lineup -- banjo, guitar, mandolin and bass, with high vocal harmonies and no drums -- onto the jam-band circuit, picking its way through songs of wanderlust and thwarted love. 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212)777-6800; $25. (Pareles)

Cabaret

Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

ANNIE ROSS (Tomorrow) Cool, funny, swinging and indestructible, this 75-year-old singer and sometime-actress exemplifies old-time hip in its most generous incarnation. 7 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212)265-8133; $25, with a $12 minimum. (Stephen Holden)

'SINGING ASTAIRE' (Tomorrow and Sunday) The smart, airy revue that pays tribute to Fred Astaire, featuring Eric Comstock, Hilary Cole and Christopher Gines, has returned to Birdland. 5:30 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212)581-3080; $30, with a $10 minimum. (Holden)

*ELAINE STRITCH (Tonight and tomorrow night, and Tuesday through Thursday) In a courageous and successful leap into the unknown, Ms. Stritch makes her cabaret debut at 80. Dispensing with her theatrical signature numbers, she weaves 16 songs new to her repertory into a funny running monologue of her adventures in and out of show business. 8:45 p.m., Cafe Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212)744-1600; $125 tonight and tomorrow, $105 Tuesday through Thursday, through Oct. 29 (all shows sold out). (Holden)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

CLAUDIA ACUNA QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow) Ms. Acuna is a compelling vocalist equally attuned to lyricism and high drama; she performs with her longtime cohort Jason Lindner on piano, as well as Omer Avital and Tony Escapa on bass and drums. 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, South Village, (212)242-1063; cover, $15. (Nate Chinen)

GEORGE CABLES PROJECT (Tuesday through Oct. 23) Mr. Cables, a well-traveled pianist, goes for assertive extroversion in this group, which consists of Gary Bartz on alto saxophone, Eric Revis on bass and Jeff (Tain) Watts on drums. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set Fridays and Saturdays, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, Jazz at Lincoln Center, (212)258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar.(Chinen)

BILL CHARLAP TRIO (Through Sunday) Bright and breezy yet unfailingly precise, Mr. Charlap, the pianist, has come to exemplify jazz's modern mainstream. So has his working trio, which keeps a Tin Pan Alley repertory percolating in the present tense. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212)255-4037; cover, $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum.(Chinen)

A DON CHERRY CELEBRATION (Through Oct. 23) Among the highlights of this tribute to the free-jazz trumpet icon Don Cherry are Moving Pictures, an octet led by the percussionist and series organizer Adam Rudolph (tomorrow); improvisations by the trumpeter Bill Dixon and the bassist Henry Grimes (Sunday); and an evening featuring the percussionist Susie Ibarra (Thursday). 8 and 10 p.m. nightly, the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

JIMMY COBB'S MOBB (Tonight and tomorrow) Mr. Cobb, a masterful hard-bop drummer, has been a mentor to many young musicians via this crackling horn-studded band; among them are the tenor saxophonist Craig Handy and the pianist George Colligan, who appear here. 8 and 10 p.m., Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212)255-3626; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

CLAIRE DALY'S RAH, RAH! (Thursday) Ms. Daly is a smart and skillful baritone saxophonist; here she pays homage to the saxophonist Rahsaan Roland Kirk, with the pianist Sonelius Smith and the drummer Warren Smith, who both played in Kirk's rollicking ensembles. 8 and 10 p.m., Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212)255-3626; cover, $15, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

OLU DARA QUINTET (Tomorrow and Sunday) Before he was known as the father of the rapper Nas, Mr. Dara was a trumpeter, guitarist and singer who infused New York avant-gardism with Mississippi twang, territory he revisits in a group featuring the guitarist Kwatei Jones-Quartey. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212)475-8592; cover, $30 at tables, with a $5 minimum or $20 at the bar and a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

*TOBIAS DELIUS 4TET (Monday) Mr. Delius, a tenor saxophonist based in Amsterdam, exemplifies the playfully anarchic ideal of the Dutch avant-garde; he has superb coconspirators in the drummer Han Bennink, the cellist Tristan Honsinger and the bassist Valdi Kolli. 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212)358-7501; cover, $10, plus one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

BILL DIXON (Tomorrow) Mr. Dixon has devoted his career to an avant-gardism more cerebral than cathartic; here his solo trumpet improvisations work in tandem with a slide show of his pen-and-ink drawings. 8 p.m., Earl Hall, Columbia University, Broadway between 116th and 120th Streets, Morningside Heights; free. (Chinen)

SHANE ENDSLEY GROUP (Monday) The trumpeter Shane Endsley is an up-and-comer with truly modern sensibilities; he softens the edge of this electro-acoustic ensemble with an instrumentation of guitar, vibraphone, Fender Rhodes piano, bass and drums. 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212)929-9883; cover, $8. (Chinen)

KEN FILIANO QUARTET (Wednesday) Mr. Filiano, a bassist best known in free-improvising circles, presents his original compositions in this group, which includes Michael Attias and Tony Malaby on saxophones, and Michael T.A. Thompson on drums. 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)965-9177; cover, $8.(Chinen)

DON FRIEDMAN TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow) Mr. Friedman's stylistic history as a pianist runs from traditional to slightly left-of-center; his rhythm section includes the drummer Tony Jefferson and the bassist Martin Wind. 8 and 9:45 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, Manhattan, (212)885-7119; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

*DIZZY GILLESPIE ALUMNI ALL-STARS (Tuesday through Oct. 23) Dizzy Gillespie, the trumpeter and bebop patriarch, was among the finest talent scouts in jazz; this band features some especially gifted veterans of his employ, including the saxophonists James Moody and Paquito D'Rivera, the trombonist Slide Hampton and the bassist John Lee. Roy Hargrove, a dazzling inheritor, will take the lead on trumpet and flugelhorn. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212)475-8592; cover, $35 at tables, with a $5 minimum or $20 at the bar and a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

*FRED HERSCH (Wednesday) Mr. Hersch, who has recently earned acclaim for his postbop trio playing and an ambitious original song cycle, refocuses on solo piano for a recital in celebration of his 50th birthday. 8:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Seventh Avenue between 56th Street and 57th Street, Manhattan, (212)247-7800; $42. (Chinen)

DAVE LIEBMAN QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow) An incantatory saxophonist and flutist working in the post-Coltrane idiom, Mr. Liebman plays here with a group featuring his frequent foil, the guitarist Vic Juris. 10 tonight, 9 p.m. tomorrow, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212)929-9883; cover, $10. (Chinen)

TONY MALABY'S PALOMA RECIO (Tomorrow) Mr. Malaby, a versatile and increasingly prominent tenor saxophonist, leads a progressive ensemble with a Spanish tinge; his fellow travelers are Michael Rodriguez, trumpeter; Ben Monder, guitarist; Eivind Opsvik, bassist; and Rodney Green, drummer. 9 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212)989-9319; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

MANHATTAN TRINITY (Through Sunday) This piano trio deserves the high-minded handle; its members are the soulful pianist Cyrus Chestnut, the erudite bassist George Mraz and the clean, crisp drummer Lewis Nash. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, Jazz at Lincoln Center, (212)258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

WYNTON MARSALIS SEXTET (Tomorrow) Mr. Marsalis's strong new album, ''Live at the House of Tribes'' (Blue Note), finds the trumpeter pursuing a sanguine and purposeful looseness; he'll seek the same here, in a group with the tenor saxophonist Walter Blanding Jr., the pianist Dan Nimmer, the bassist Carlos Enriquez, the drummer Ali Jackson and the guest singer Jennifer Sanon. 8 p.m., Prudential Hall, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888)466-5722; $20 to $56.(Chinen)

PAT MARTINO (Wednesday through Oct. 22) A dazzlingly proficient guitarist, Mr. Martino favors a brand of aggressive postbop that has more than a little in common with the blistering fusion of his youth. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212)581-3080; cover, $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

MARY ANN McSWEENEY QUARTET (Monday) Smart and engaging postbop, delivered by Ms. McSweeney, a bassist, and a handful of frequent collaborators: the valve trombonist Mike Fahn, the guitarist John Hart and the drummer Tim Horner. 7 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212)929-9883; no cover. (Chinen)

DAVID MURRAY QUARTET/OMAR SOSA QUARTET (Sunday) Two bands that favor an earthy kind of progressivism: one led by the impressionistic Cuban pianist Omar Sosa and the other led by the blustery tenor saxophonist David Murray. 3 p.m., Victoria Theater, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888)466-5722; $42. (Chinen)

EIVIND OPSVIK OVERSEAS (Sunday) On his new album, ''Overseas II'' (Fresh Sound New Talent), the Norwegian bassist Eivind Opsvik plumbs a strikingly modern (and yes, vaguely Nordic) brand of fusion; his partners here are the tenor saxophonist Tony Malaby, the keyboardist Jacob Sacks and the drummer Jeff Davis. 10 p.m., Zebulon, 258 Wythe Avenue, at Metropolitan Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)218-6934; no cover. (Chinen)

JEROME SABBAGH QUARTET (Tuesday) With ''North'' (Fresh Sound New Talent), Mr. Sabbagh proves himself a quietly commanding tenor saxophonist and composer in the postmodern mainstream; his sleek ensemble sound owes a lot to the guitar playing of Ben Monder. 9 and 10:30 p.m., Koze Lounge, 676 Fifth Avenue, at 20th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)832-8282; cover, $7. (Chinen)

SINGERS OVER MANHATTAN (Thursday through Oct. 22) The pianist Eric Reed leads a house rhythm section behind three varieties of modern jazz singer: the vivaciously cosmopolitan Carla Cooke, the debonair Sachal Vasandani and the precociously poised Jennifer Sanon. 7:30 p.m., Allen Room, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, Jazz at Lincoln Center, (212)258-9595; $135. (Chinen)

DR. LONNIE SMITH TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow) Under Dr. Smith's command, the Hammond B-3 organ can be subtly atmospheric or growlingly ecstatic; together with the guitarist Peter Bernstein and the drummer Alison Miller, Dr. Smith delivers a searching brand of soul-jazz. 9 and 11 p.m. and 12:30 a.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, Manhattan, (212)864-6662; cover, $25. (Chinen)

CHARLES TOLLIVER BIG BAND (Wednesday through Oct. 23) Mr. Tolliver leads a new edition of his celebrated orchestra of the 1970's; among the top-shelf talent involved are the saxophonists Billy Harper and Craig Handy, the trombonist Clark Gayton and the drummer Ralph Peterson. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an additional 11:30 set Oct. 21 and 22, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212)576-2232; cover, $25 to $30. (Chinen)

TRIO DA PAZ (Through Sunday) This long-running supergroup of transplanted Brazilians -- Romero Lubambo on guitar, Nilson Matta on bass and Duduka da Fonseca on drums -- combines the elements of jazz and samba with virtuosic panache; they're introducing a breezy album, ''Somewhere'' (Blue Toucan). 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212)576-2232; cover, $20 to $25. (Chinen)

BEN WALTZER TRIO (Thursday) Mr. Waltzer, the pianist, manages a thoughtful modernism that coexists more than peaceably with a buoyant, unselfconscious sense of swing; his trio, with Matt Penman and Gerald Cleaver on bass and drums, is first-rate. 8 and 9:45 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, Manhattan, (212)885-7119; no cover, $10 minimum. (Chinen)

DAVE WECKL BAND (Wednesday through Oct. 23) Energetic fusion, driven by the extravagant proficiency of Mr. Weckl, a drummer best known for his reign with the Chick Corea Elektric Band. 8 and 10 p.m. Wednesday, Thursday and Oct. 23; 8, 10, and 11:30 p.m. on Oct. 21; and 8:30, 10:30 and 11:30 on Oct. 22, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212)582-2121; cover, $27.50 and $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

WILL VINSON (Sunday) Mr. Vinson, a young alto saxophonist, favors the sort of progressive postbop that gained traction in the mid-1960's; he gets strong support from the guitarists Lage Lund and Jonathan Kreisberg, the bassist Orlando le Fleming and the drummer Rodney Green. 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212)929-9883; cover, $7. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

Opera

'AIDA' (Tonight, Tuesday) The Aida of the rich-voiced soprano Michele Crider and the Amneris of the formidable mezzo-soprano Dolora Zajick are sure bets. What fans of ''Aida'' will be curious about when Sonja Frisell's production returns to the Metropolitan Opera is the Radames of the tenor Salvatore Licitra, who has yet to live up to the promise of his dramatic Met debut in 2002 as a last-minute replacement for Luciano Pavarotti. James Conlon conducts. 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000, $26 to $205.(Anthony Tommasini)

'ARIANE ET BARBE-BLEUE' (Tonight, Sunday) Paul Dukas's mysterious 1907 opera tells the legend of the fearsome Duke Bluebeard and his strangely disappearing wives from a woman's point of view. In its day the work was mentioned along with Debussy's ''Pelleas et Melisande'' as a prime achievement of the post-Wagnerian French school. That this rich work has become a rarity is inexplicable. Thanks go to the New York City Opera for this new production, which is suitably Symbolist in look. It's too bad that the musical performance under the conductor Leon Botstein is so heavy-handed. Renate Behle brings Wagnerian intensity to the role of Ariane. Tonight at 8 and Sunday at 1:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212)721-6500, $16 to $120. (Tommasini)

'IL BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA' (Tomorrow, Thursday) Hugh Russell, by all accounts a sweet-voiced baritone, makes his debut with the New York City Opera in the title role of Rossini's perennial favorite, joining Jennifer Rivera (as Rosina) and John Tessier (as Almaviva). Joseph Rescigno conducts. Tomorrow night at 8, Thursday night at 7:30, New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212)721-6500, $16 to $120. (Anne Midgette)

'LA BOHEME' (Tomorrow, Sunday) Pity a small opera company: it receives critical attention only when it does something unusual, yet its audiences tend to like the same fare as everyone else. Which is to say that ''La Boheme'' at the 204-seat Dicapo Opera Theater will receive few reviews, but remains a crowd favorite. Tomorrow night at 8, Sunday afternoon at 4, Dicapo Opera, 184 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212)288-9438, $47.50.(Midgette)

'CARMEN' (Tomorrow) Though she missed her scheduled company debut because of illness, Milena Kitic is set to sing the role as planned this weekend. Ruth Ann Swenson is singing her first Micaelas, prettily; Marco Berti is loud but untender as Don Jose; and Philippe Jordan brings a crisp touch as he tries to hold it all together from the pit. 1:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000. Remaining tickets: $220. (Midgette)

'LA CENERENTOLA' (Monday, Thursday) Olga Borodina's mezzo-soprano is slightly dark for the title role in Rossini's Cinderella story, but she has the clarity and agility to bring this virtuosic, richly ornamental music to life. The rest of the cast -- including Barry Banks as the Prince, Simone Alberghini as Dandini and Simone Alaimo as Don Magnifico -- is well matched in this comic-book production by Cesare Lievi. Monday at 8 p.m., Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000, $26 to $220. (Allan Kozinn)

'FALSTAFF' (Tomorrow, Wednesday) The attention to detail that characterizes this production is truly unusual: it's well cast, well acted and well conducted by a masterly James Levine. It also features the reigning Falstaff of our day, Bryn Terfel, who is matched note for note by the fabulous Stephanie Blythe as Mistress Quickly -- she almost steals the show. Go see it. 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000, $42 to $220. (Midgette)

'TOSCA' (Tomorrow) Mark Lamos's 1998 production of this Puccini favorite has returned with its crisp geometric elegance intact. Carla Thelen Hanson is a respectable Tosca, and Todd Thomas is a vocally assured, larger-than-life Scarpia. But at the opening performance last week, Jorge Antonio Pita came up short as Cavaradossi, sounding underpowered and intermittently strained. John Demain conducts. 1:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212)721-6500, $16 to $120. (Jeremy Eichler)

Classical Music

PIERRE-LAURENT AIMARD (Thursday) Solo recitals by this exceptional French pianist are not to be missed. Here he plays Pierre Boulez's First Piano Sonata, Ravel's ''Gaspard de la Nuit,'' Schumann's ''Carnaval'' and a handful of Debussy preludes. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800, $23 to $79. (Eichler)

CECILIA BARTOLI (Wednesday) This great Italian mezzo-soprano promotes her new recording, ''Opera Proibita'' (Decca), with a recital of opera and oratorio arias by Scarlatti, Caldara and Handel. Orchestra La Scintilla of the Zurich Opera supports here, and will have its moment in the sun by way of Caldara and Handel overtures and a Corelli Concerto Grosso. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800, $37 to $127. (Kozinn)

BEAUX-ARTS TRIO (Tonight) This group, which -- at least in the person of its venerable founding pianist, Menahem Pressler -- has just turned 50, is in its second of three seasons surveying all the piano trios, violin sonatas and cello sonatas of Beethoven. In addition, it gives the American premiere of Jan Muller-Wieland's ''Schlaflied,'' or ''Lullaby.'' 8 p.m., Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212)570-3949; $50. (James R. Oestreich)

CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Sunday, Tuesday) The society once again is mixing and matching its pool of players into ensembles small and large, here a Brahms piano quartet, a Poulenc trio and the Franck duo Sonata in its cello version. Sunday at 5 p.m., Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212)875-5788, $28 to $49. (Bernard Holland)

CHOIR OF ST. IGNATIUS LOYOLA (Thursday) The choir's director, Kent Tritle, who founded the church's invaluable program Sacred Music in a Sacred Space, conducts a performance of Haydn's glorious and underperformed oratorio ''The Creation.'' 8 p.m., Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, Park Avenue at 84th Street, (212)288-2520; $35 and $45; $25 for students and 65+. (Oestreich)

CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (Monday) Cleveland's conductor, Franz Welser-Most, has been getting mixed reviews at home, but the orchestra's last stint in New York showed little reason for alarm and even included some of the loveliest Schubert heard in many moons. Composers of Mr. Welser-Most's native Austria seem to draw from him a special affection and fluency, so it's good that he arrives next week bearing Brahms (the First Symphony and the ''Academic Festival Overture'') as well as the New York premiere of a work by Chen Yi. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800, $33 to $116. (Eichler)

JUILLIARD STRING QUARTET (Thursday) The premiere of Ezequiel Vinao's String Quartet No. 2 is the centerpiece of this recital by one of this country's most venerable chamber ensembles. Included as well are Mozart's Quartet in G (K. 387) and Beethoven's Quartet in C sharp minor (Op. 131). 8 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212)769-7406; free, but tickets are required. (Kozinn)

BLAIR McMILLEN and STEPHEN GOSLING (Tomorrow) ''Powerhouse Pianists'' is the title that the sponsoring American Modern Ensemble has given to this joint recital. Few people who have heard these formidable young pianists, champions of contemporary music, would quibble with the billing. Their inventive program includes works by, among others, Lee Hyla, Annie Gosfield, Conlon Nancarrow and David Rakowski. 8 p.m., Tenri Cultural Institute, 43A West 13th Street, Manhattan, (212)645-2800, $15; $10 for students and 65+. (Tommasini)

CHRISTOPHER MALTMAN (Thursday) A stylish young baritone who has a particular warmth and affinity for song, Mr. Maltman appears with the accompanist Malcolm Martineau in a program of Schumann, Mahler and French song. 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800, $35 to $42. (Midgette)

NEW YORK FESTIVAL OF SONG (Wednesday) This survey features the ''singable'' (Festival's term) songs of the last quarter of the 20th century, including the work of John Musto, John Corigliano, Richard Thomas and Ricky Ian Gordon. 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212)501-3330, $45; $35 for 65+. (Holland)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Tonight, tomorrow, Tuesday, Thursday). Marin Alsop has gotten attention lately for becoming the first woman appointed music director of a major American orchestra, receiving a MacArthur Foundation grant and working on a recorded Brahms symphony cycle. She comes to the Philharmonic with the Brahms First and Midori, who joins her in Prokofiev's first violin concerto. Beginning Thursday, Gianandrea Noseda and the pianist Simon Trpceski take on Rachmaninoff's Third. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Tuesday and Thursday nights at 7:30, Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212)721-6500, $26 to $94. (Midgette)

PAULINE OLIVEROS and IONE (Wednesday) The Mercantile Library, which boasts a second-floor reading room of an ideally intimate size for chamber music, has joined the essential Meet the Composer organization for the concert series ''MTC at the Merc.'' These 60-minute programs also offer a chance to meet the composers and performers. Here the iconoclastic and inventive composer Pauline Oliveros, who also plays the accordion, will be joined by the playwright, poet and author Ione for a performance of ''Cross Overs,'' a musical work that explores, in the phrase of the creators, the sound of words and the making of words out of sound. 6:30 p.m., Mercantile Library, 17 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212)755-6710, $15. (Tommasini)

ORPHEUS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA (Tuesday) Richard Goode's pianism is always thoughtful and deeply felt, so hearing him in two concertos -- Mozart's ''Jeunehomme'' in E flat and Beethoven's Third -- is a rare treat. The program also includes overtures by J.C. Bach and Cherubini. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800, $30 to $88. (Kozinn)

FREDERIC RZEWSKI (Thursday) In this installment of the Miller Theater's important ''Composer Portraits'' series, the pianists Ursula Oppens and Marilyn Nonken, and the percussionists Tom Kolor and Dominic Donato explore some of Mr. Rzewski's powerful, politically charged works, including his magnificent set of piano variations on ''The People United Will Never Be Defeated.'' Included as well is the New York premiere of ''Bring Them Home,'' an antiwar piece. 8 p.m., Miller Theater, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212)854-7799, $20. (Kozinn)

SEQUENTIA (Sunday) Benjamin Bagby's superb group looks into the mists of musical history to a time long before popular and art song parted ways. The program on the ''Music Before 1800'' series is called ''Lost Songs of a Rhineland Harper,'' and examines music of the 10th and 11th centuries. 4 p.m., Corpus Christi Church, 529 West 121st Street, Morningside Heights, (212)666-9266, $25 to $40; $20 to $35 for students and 62+. (Kozinn)

WONNY SONG (Tuesday) The group Young Concerts Artists can be counted on to discover and present some of the fine new talents of classical music. On Tuesday the organization presents the gifted Korean-Canadian pianist Wonny Song, winner of the 2003 Prix d'Europe in Quebec. Mr. Song plays works by Beethoven, Ravel and Stephen Paulus, and Mussorgsky's formidable and popular ''Pictures at an Exhibition.'' 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800, $25 and $35. (Tommasini)

TAKACS QUARTET (Tonight) Having recently made its way through all the Beethoven string quartets, this ensemble is in superb shape. It now turns its attention to Debussy's lustrous quartet and two works by Mozart, the ''Dissonance'' Quartet and, with the violist James Dunham as its guest, the G minor Quintet. 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800, $44 to $52. (Kozinn)

WDR SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA COLOGNE (Tonight, tomorrow) The conductor Semyon Bychkov, who has been associated with orchestras from St. Petersburg to Buffalo, brings his West German Radio Orchestra, where he has been chief conductor since 1997, to the New York area for two contrasting concerts: an all-Brahms evening in Newark tonight, and a concert performance of Richard Strauss's opera ''Daphne'' at Carnegie Hall tomorrow (A related article is on Page 1). Tonight at 8, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, Newark, (888)466-5722, $20 to $66; tomorrow night at 8, Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800, $27 to $95. (Midgette)

NATALIE ZHU (Tomorrow) This Chinese-born pianist, who can be heard on a new Deutsche Grammophon recording of Mozart violin sonatas with the violinist Hilary Hahn, will also appear with Ms. Hahn in recital next month at Carnegie Hall. But tomorrow night Ms. Zhu, who won an Avery Fisher Career Grant in 2003, has her own chance to shine in a solo recital. 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212)501-3330, $25; $15 for students and 65+. (Tommasini)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

AILEY II (Sunday) The high-energy young dancers of the ''second'' company of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater offer works by Igal Perry, Robert Battle and Ailey. 3 p.m., Lehman Center for the Performing Arts, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West, the Bronx, (718)960-8833; $20 to $30, discounts available for 65+ and students (Jack Anderson)

AMDaT/ANDREA HAENGGI (Thursday) An organization fostering international collaborations in the arts holds a gala to raise money for dance projects in New York, Moscow and Switzerland. 7 to 11 p.m., On View Studio, 338 Berry Street, between South Fourth and South Fifth Streets, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)218-8236, Ext. 3 or www.amdat.org/benefit; $85; artists $45. (Anderson)

*AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (Through Nov. 6) The company's three-week City Center season begins Wednesday with a gala that includes the company premiere of Jerome Robbins's ''Afternoon of a Faun,'' the premiere of a revival of Agnes de Mille's ''Rodeo,'' plus Mark Morris's ''Gong,'' the pas de deux from Petipa's ''Paquita'' and excerpts from Kirk Peterson's ''Howling Cat.'' The first regular program on Thursday has ''Faun'' and ''Paquita'' with ''Les Sylphides'' and the premiere of ''Kaleidoscope,'' choreographed by Peter Quanz. 7:30 p.m., New York City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212)581-1212 or www.abt.org or www.nycitycenter.org, $25 to $90. (John Rockwell)

IVY BALDWIN AND TAMI STRONACH (Thursday) Ivy Baldwin choreographically travels through a Russian forest in winter. Tami Stronach presents glimpses of worlds gone slightly askew. 8 p.m., Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, SoHo, (212) 219-0736 or www.dixonplace.org; $12; students $10. (Anderson)

BARNARD COLLEGE: 'ON DANCE' (Monday) In the latest installment of this free series of conversations, films and lectures, Nancy Dalva will interview John Rockwell, senior dance critic of The New York Times , on his work as a music and dance reviewer and founding director of the Lincoln Center Festival. 7:30 p.m., Julius S. Held Lecture Hall, 304 Barnard Hall, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212)854-2995 or www.barnard.edu/dance. (Jennifer Dunning)

CLARE BYRNE DANCE (Opens Thursday) ''Sweet Chariots'' is a cycle of five soulful dances expressing thanksgiving, vulnerability and surrender. 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212)334-7479; $15. (Anderson)
CROSSING BOUNDARIES (Tuesday) Marcia Monroe is the curator of this program offering works by Amy Cane, Yves Musard, Moeno Wakamatsu and Nina Winthrop. 8 p.m., Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, SoHo, (212)219-0736 or www.dixonplace.org; $12; students and 65+ $10. (Anderson)

DRAFT WORK: DEBORAH HAY (Tomorrow) Ms. Hay sets the dancers Maryanne Chaney, Layard Thompson and Arturo Vidich loose in the luminous field of her choreography to adapt the dances in an informal free program. 3 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212)674-8194 or www.danspaceproject.org. (Dunning)

EQUUS PROJECTS (Tomorrow and Sunday) JoAnna Mendl Shaw, who likes to pair dancers with horses and riders, choreographically gallops into a riding academy with ''Rules of Engagement,'' a multidisciplinary collaboration with Janet Biggs, an artist and video creator, and Steve White, a composer. The production includes dancing, a horse and rider and site-specific videos. 8 p.m., Claremont Riding Academy, 175 West 89th Street, Upper West Side, (212)595-4849 or www.dancingwithhorses.org; $30, $35; students $20 and 65+$25. (Anderson)

FORMOSA ABORIGINAL SONG AND DANCE TROUPE AND ULALI (Tomorrow) A 30-member ensemble devoted to the ritual songs and dances of the indigenous people of Taiwan shares a program with Ulali, an American Indian women's a cappella group. 7:30 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888)466-5722 or www.njpac.org; $32. (Anderson)

GINA GIBNEY DANCE (Tonight through Sunday) A seasoned, subtle modern-dance choreographer who gives equal opportunity to her brain and heart, Ms. Gibney will present a new multimedia work, ''unbounded,'' that explores the tensions between clinging to the known and reaching for the unknowable. 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212)674-8194; $15 or T.D.F. voucher. (Dunning)

SAVION GLOVER (Tomorrow) This tap-dance star revels in musical variety in ''Classical Savion.'' 8 p.m., Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts, Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, Flatbush, (718)951-4500 or www.brooklyncenteronline.org; $20 to $45. (Anderson)

ICE THEATER OF NEW YORK (Tomorrow, Monday, Wednesday and Thursday) ''Dance Visions on Ice'' includes pieces by ice-dance choreographers including David Liu and Douglas Webster, with guest performers Tatiana Navka and Roman Kostomarov, World Ice Dance Champions and Yukina Ota, 2003 Junior World Champion. Tomorrow at 8 p.m. Staller Center, Stony Brook University, 2032 Staller Center, (631)632-7233 or www.stallercenter.com; $40. Monday (an abbreviated gala program) at 7 p.m.; Wednesday, Thursday and next Friday at 7 p.m., Sky Rink, Chelsea Piers, Pier 61, 23rd Street and the Hudson River, (212)929-5811 or www.icetheatre.org; $20 to $5,000 (gala); $20 and $15 for students, children and 65+. (Dunning)

LEESAAR COMPANY (Opens Wednesday) Military movement inspires the choreographic vocabulary of ''Herd of Bulls.'' Wednesday through next Friday at 8 p.m.; Oct. 22 at 5 and 8 p.m.; Oct. 23 at 5 p.m., P.S. 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212)352-3101 or www.ps122.org; $20. (Anderson)

PAVEL LISKA'S 'POETICS' (Wednesday and Thursday) Mr. Liska describes this new piece as ''a ballet brut.'' 8 p.m., Theater of the Riverside Church, 91 Claremont Avenue, between 120th and 122nd Streets, Morningside Heights, (212)870-6784 or www.ColumbiaStages.com; $10; $5 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

LUIS LARA MALVACIAS (Opens Thursday) ''Badman,'' for an all-male cast, creates an environment in which social codes regulating definitions of masculinity break down. Thursday through Oct. 23 at 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, Second Avenue at 10th Street, East Village, (212)674-8194; $15. (Anderson)

BEBE MILLER COMPANY (Tonight and tomorrow) Ms. Miller, in her company's 20th anniversary, is the latest dance artist to take advantage of the theater's impressive technological facilities at Dance Theater Workshop. In her new ''Landing/Place,'' Ms. Miller will integrate digital motion-capture technology, animation and video projections into a dance about traveling in Eritrea. (A review is on Page 6.) 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)924-0077; $25. (Dunning)

NEW YORK BUTOH FESTIVAL: DAISUKE YOSHIMOTO AND YUMIKO YOSHIOKA (Wednesday and Thursday) Two dances celebrate metamorphosis. ''Eros and Thanatos'' makes the naked body a landscape in flux. In ''Before the Dawn,'' darkness melts into brightness. 8 p.m., Theater for the New City, 155 First Avenue, East Village, (212)561-9539; $20; students $17. (Anderson)

NEXT WAVE FESTIVAL: NATIONAL BALLET OF CHINA (Tonight and tomorrow) The company will perform ''Raise the Red Lantern,'' about a young concubine in 1920's China and told through a fusion of ballet, modern dance and traditional Chinese dance, set to music performed on Western and Chinese instruments and directed by Zhang Yimou, the noted film director. 7:30 p.m., BAM Howard Gilman Opera House, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718)636-4100; $20 to $70. (Dunning)

ODC/SAN FRANCISCO (Tonight through Sunday) This program by two of this San Francisco-based company's resident choreographers includes dances by Brenda Way, among them one inspired by global warming, and by KT Nelson. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)242-0800 or joyce.org; $38. (Dunning)

THE PARSONS DANCE COMPANY (Tuesday through Thursday) David Parsons and his full-throttle dancers present his new ''DMB,'' to music by the Dave Matthews Band and repertory including ''Wolfgang,'' a tribute to Mozart; and ''Shining Star,'' to music by Earth, Wind and Fire. 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue , at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)242-0800 or www.joyce.org; $40. (Dunning)

SNAPPY DANCE THEATER (Today) We love them already. From Boston and performing for free, the troupe will mix modern dance, gymnastics, circus and martial arts, vocal work and theater in ''The Temperamental Wobble,'' based on the drawings of Edward Gorey, and ''Flip/Switch,'' a mix of repertory. Today at 12:30 and 8 p.m. World Financial Center Winter Garden, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan. The company will also present a free children's program with hands-on improvisational training tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. at the Winter Garden. (212)945-0505 or www.worldfinancialcenter.com. (Dunning)

THE STORY OF TAP (THE SEQUEL) (Opens tonight) Hank Smith hosts weekend programs in which some of the leading tap dancers in New York converse and dance. It's a dance party featuring Harold Cromer tonight and Mable Lee tomorrow. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, other programs through Oct. 29, Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, SoHo, (212)219-0736, Ext. 110 or www.dixonplace.org; $10 to 15; advance tickets $12 at theatermania.com. (Anderson)

TANGO FLAMENCO (Sunday) Spanish flamenco and Argentine musical and dance traditions become partners. 2 p.m., Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts, Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, Flatbush, (718)951-4500 or www.brooklyncenteronline.org; $15 to $35. (Anderson)

ANN LIV YOUNG (Opens Wednesday) Dance joins forces with words, singing and narrative in ''Michael,'' an erotically charged dance set inside a 42-foot-long trailer decorated with Victorian floral wallpaper and prim furniture. The choreographer says her production is for mature audiences only. Wednesday through Oct. 22 at 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)924-0077 or www.dtw.org; $20; students and seniors, $12. (Anderson)

'YUNNAN REVEALED: MUSIC AND DANCE FROM CHINA'S LAND OF CLOUDS' (Tonight) A touring troupe of 15 dancers and musicians representing four ethnic minorities from this province in southwestern China. 8 p.m. Peter Norton Symphony Space, Broadway at 95th Street, (212)864-5400 or (212)545-7536 or www.worldmusicinstitute.org; $32; students, $15. (Rockwell)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'OBSESSIVE DRAWING,' through March 19. In the museum's first ''emerging talent'' show, one of the five artists selected is 83, lives in a home for the elderly in Pennsylvania and stopped painting two years ago because of failing eyesight. Overall, the work in the exhibition is abstract and spare, giving the problematic outsider category a new spin. 45 West 53rd Street, (212)265-1040. (Holland Cotter)

COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'EXTREME TEXTILES,' through Oct. 30. Don't look for aesthetic pizazz in this intensely techy show of industrial fibers and fabrics, but don't rule it out. The show's raison d'etre is solely use, but a lot of what's on view, in the first museum display of material made to function in extreme conditions, is visually exciting. 2 East 91st Street, (212)849-8400.(Grace Glueck)

GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'RUSSIA!,' through Jan. 11. This survey of nine centuries of Russian art ranges from 13th-century religious icons to a smattering of 21st-century works, achieving its astounding effect without resorting to a single egg, or anything else, by Faberge. It immerses us in two enormous, endlessly fascinating narratives: the history of painting and the history of Russia, forming a remarkable tribute to the endurance of the medium and the country, and the inescapable interconnectedness of art and life. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212)423-3600. (Roberta Smith)

*JAPAN SOCIETY: 'HIROSHI SUGIMOTO: HISTORY OF HISTORY,' through Feb. 19. A very personal, whimsical exhibition by this well-known Japanese photographer, who incorporates into his work artifacts that he has collected, particularly from East Asia and Japan. Mr. Sugimoto's reach is long, and his range is broad, from fossils to textiles to undersea dioramas to Japanese calligraphy to the Trylon and Perisphere (a minisculpture) that symbolized the New York World's Fair of 1939. It may not be all that enlightening, but as an artist's personal survey, it comes off. 333 East 47th Street, (212)832-1155. (Glueck).

*JEWISH MUSEUM: 'THE JEWISH IDENTITY PROJECT: NEW AMERICAN PHOTOGRAPHY,' through Jan. 29. Who's Jewish, who isn't, and by the way, what is a Jew anyway? They are not easy questions, as this intense who-are-we exploration makes clear. Ten projects by 13 artists try to help break the stereotype of American Jews as uniformly white, middle-class and of European descent. Using photography and video, they have interpreted their missions broadly, from the Korean-born Nikki S. Lee's meticulous staging of a Jewish wedding with herself as the bride to Andrea Robbins and Max Becher's look at the thriving shtetl established by Lubavitcher Hasidic Jews in the rural community of Postville, Iowa. Refugees from the Holocaust, Jews of color, those of various sexual orientations, an extended Iranian family, a convert to Judaism reared as a Roman Catholic and others are seen and heard in this lively show, which broadens the universe of Jews in this country. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street (212)423-3200. (Glueck)

METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE BISHOP JADES,' through Feb. 12. Jade has been treasured since ancient times, though the almost preposterously exquisite objects on display in the Met's reinstalled galleries for Chinese decorative arts date from the 18th century, when the Qing dynasty (1644-1911) brought Chinese jade work to a peak of virtuosity. Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212)535-7710. (Cotter)

EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'THE (S) FILES/THE SELECTED FILES 05,' through Jan. 29. The definition of what ''Latino art'' means is changing in a post-identity-politics time, and this modest biennial, drawn mostly from unsolicited proposals submitted by artists in the greater New York area, is an indicator of what that change looks like. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, (212)831-7272. (Cotter)

MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'NEW YORK CHANGING: DOUGLAS LEVERE REVISITS BERENICE ABBOTT'S NEW YORK,' through Nov. 13. During the 1930's, the Modernist photographer Berenice Abbott photographed the architectural fabric of New York with a keen eye for contrasts of new and old. Between 1997 and 2003, Douglas Levere returned to the scenes that she photographed and photographed them again. Seeing 50 of his paired with her originals is a fascinating education in how things change. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212)534-1672. (Ken Johnson)

* STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'SCRATCH: 2004-2005 ARTISTS IN RESIDENCE: WILLIAM CORDOVA, MICHAEL QUEENLAND AND MARC ANDRE ROBINSON,' through Oct. 23 . Rap, religion, Minimalism and Malcolm X all figure in this intricate, multilayered show of work by the three young residents, organized by the museum's associate curator, Christine Y. Kim. 144 West 125th Street, (212)864-4500. (Cotter)

*WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'OSCAR BLUEMNER: A PASSION FOR COLOR,' through Feb. 12. Not exactly a well-known name today, except to devotees of American Modernism, this German-born architect-turned-painter (1867-1938) was in fact one of the major American artists of the early 20th century, right up there with the likes of Marsden Hartley, John Marin, Arthur Dove and Charles Demuth, to name a few. Most of his compositions are unpeopled landscapes depicting houses and building fragments in brilliantly stylized settings in which trees, clouds, smokestacks, telephone poles, water and snow are rendered as rhythmic and dramatic shapes that play off one another almost musically. Too, he was a superb colorist, assigning psychological properties to each color, red in particular, which he considered symbolic of power and energy. Among the best works here are his last ones, landscapes that have the magic of Expressionist theater, with houses, trees and the like assuming almost human presences. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212)570-3676. (Glueck) *WHITNEY MUSEUM: ROBERT SMITHSON, through Oct. 23. Who knows whether Smithson is the most influential American postwar artist, as this show claims. Consisting mostly of drawings, photographs and films (he didn't make many sculptures, not ones that could fit into a museum, anyway), this is the first full-scale overview of him in the country. It is consequently dry but still compelling testimony to a great exuberance cut drastically short when Smithson died at 35 in a plane crash in 1973. (See above.)(Michael Kimmelman)

Galleries: Uptown

*ADAM DANT: 'STANDING UNDER' An extraordinarily imaginative and skillful draftsman, Mr. Dant makes large pen-and-brush drawings of complex scenes populated by chunky little people, all viewed as if from below through a transparent ground or floor. Adam Baumgold, 74 East 79th Street, (212)861-7338, through Oct. 22. (Johnson)

'VIETNAM: DESTINATION FOR THE NEW MILLENNIUM -THE ART OF DINH Q. LE' Born in Vietnam, Mr. Le moved to the United States at age 11 and received a master of fine arts degree from the School of Visual Arts in New York. This small exhibition presents high-concept photographic and sculptural works about the Vietnam War and its effects, as well as a pair of sleek sculptures representing communications satellites that satirize Vietnam's plans to enter the space age and the global consumerist economy. Asia Society, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212)288-6400, through Jan. 15. (Johnson)

Galleries: 57th Street

HENRY WOLF Organized by the photography critic Vince Aletti, this exhibition presents works by the suave art director, designer and photographer Henry Wolf (1925-2005). Examples of his designs for magazine covers and pictures by photographers that he commissioned are on view, but the most interesting part is the selection of Wolf's noncommercial photographs, which are compelling for their ultramodern ways with light, multiple spaces, speed and glamour. Howard Greenberg, 41 East 57th Street, (212)334-0010, through Oct. 22. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

*ROBERT BORDO A beautiful, quietistic show by a painter whose work always manages to be both grounded and ethereal, soundless and resonant, abstract and not. Mr. Bordo is at midcareer. The time for a retrospective view is at hand. Alexander and Bonin, 132 10th Avenue, near 18th Street, (212)367-7474, through Oct. 22. (Cotter)

'LANDSCAPE: MYTH AND MEMORY' Miniature ruins built of tiny bricks on rocky landscapes made of clay by Charles Simmonds; large, faux antique photographs of Egyptian pyramids by Lynn Davis; an enormous, crusty book by Anselm Kiefer open to the photographic image of ancient architectural remains; and archetypal circles painted and photographed by Richard Long all add up to a nicely choreographed collective fantasy about primordial civilizations. Senior & Shopmaker, 21 East 26th Street, (212)213-6767, through Nov. 23. (Johnson)

NICK MAUSS This fleet, stylish show has a muffled cries-and-whispers sense of mystery. The small paintings and drawings suggest hurried sketches and half-erased images from a suppressed larger narrative. The tites of two paintings, ''Urgent'' and ''Paraphrase,'' sum up the dynamic. Daniel Reich, 537 A West 23rd Street, (212)924-4949, through Oct. 22. (Cotter)

SUE WILLIAMS Few artists have combined figurative abstract painting and existential disgust as variously and effectively as Sue Williams has, and the trajectory continues in this show of new work. Here the battered body parts and de Kooning-esque swipes of the past have been distilled into a tumorous universe of genitals, anuses and noxious emissions, as the biological becomes political. 303 Gallery, 525 West 22nd Street, (212)255-1121, through Oct. 29. (Cotter)

Other Galleries

CLAIRE FONTAINE Politically charged works by this French artist include a neon-light work that outlines the image of a hooded Iraqi prisoner and child; a neon sign in the gallery's front window that says in Arabic, ''Foreigners Everywhere''; and a tiny sculpture called ''In God We Trust'' in the form of a 25-cent coin with a fold-out box cutter secreted inside. Reena Spaulings, 371 Grand Street, SoHo, (212)477-5006, through Oct. 21. (Johnson)

VIOLA FREY: 'A LASTING LEGACY' This show of the last ceramic sculptures of Viola Frey (1933-2004) is dominated by outsize figures, among them a standing man more than 10 feet tall and a goddesslike seated nude more than 6 feet high, both in white-glazed clay. Although they are untouched by color, a number of slightly earlier works blaze with her usual painterly panache, like the brilliant orange hands and tie, yellow shirt and multicolored face she gave to the large ''Seated Man, Foot Poised on World,'' who seems to kick away a globe in anger or frustration. Nancy Hoffman Gallery, 429 West Broadway, (212)431-3600, through Oct 25. (Glueck)

*ANDRE KERTESZ From tiny, wonderfully intense pictures made in the teens in Budapest, where Kertesz was born in 1894, to formally acute views of Paris in the 20's and 30's to emotionally and metaphorically resonant images of New York, where he lived from 1936 to his death in 1985, this beautiful exhibition covers the career of a giant of 20th-century photography. International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212)857-0000, through Nov. 27. (Johnson)

*MACCHINE NATURALI: 'ABSTRACT COLLAGES BY JOSEPH STELLA' The largest New York show in some time of Stella's elegant, understated collages, made from dirt-stained scraps of paper, can thoroughly rearrange your grasp of his sensibility and the history of American Modernism. Peter Freeman Inc., 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo (212)966-5349, through Oct. 29. (Smith)

Last Chance

*Diane Arbus: 'Other Faces, Other Rooms' If you think you are sufferingfrom Diane Arbus fatigue, this exhibition of 49 photographs that have not been widely published or exhibited will surely refresh your interest. Robert Miller, 524 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212)366-4774, closing tomorrow.(Johnson)

*TOM BURCKHARDT: 'FULL STOP' A painter of eclectically layered abstractions has produced a surprising environmental installation: a slightly old-fashioned, fully equipped painter's studio made of brown corrugated cardboard and black paint. Caren Golden, 539 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212)727-8304, closing tomorrow. (Johnson)

WOUTER DERUYTTER: 'CROW WARRIORS' You could almost mistake Mr. Deruytter's black-and-white, subtly erotic photographs of Crow Indian warriors in face paint, feathered headdresses and loin cloths, riding bareback horses, for 19th-century ethnographic documents. In fact, they depict contemporary American Indians gathered for an annual re-enactment of the Battle of the Little Bighorn. Briggs Robinson, 527 West 29th Street, (212)560-9075, closing tomorrow. (Johnson)

*OMER FAST: 'GODVILLE' Video editing is virtuosic medium in Omer Fast's hands, and history a malleable, volatile subject composed of flickering bits and pieces, as seen in this two-channel installation shot in Colonial Williamsburg, a Revolution-era reconstruction where docents dressed in 18th-century clothes, play period roles. Postmasters, 459 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)727-3323, closing tomorrow. (Cotter)

*MONIQUE PRIETO AND LYNDA BENGLIS Ms. Prieto has, in effect, boarded over her abstract paintings with rough-hewn monolithic letters quoting Samuel Pepys's diary. Both the wordiness and the klunkiness are a bit familiar, but extracting Pepys's phrases, which are all deliberately disembodied in reference, can be strangely satisfying. In ''The Graces,'' Ms. Benglis continues to evoke figures by other means, in this case three shimmering stacks of vaselike forms made of heavily textured, lavender-tinted resin. The material is perfect for the process-oriented Ms. Benglis. Cheim & Read, 547 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212)242-7727, closing tomorrow. (Smith)

'RUSSIA REDUX NO.1' Organized by Elena Sorokina, this show of work by a dozen contemporary artists and artists' collectives from the former Soviet Union is a supplement and critical rejoinder to the celebratory, Putin-power national portrait presented in ''Russia!'' at the Guggenheim Museum. Schroeder Romero, 173A N. Third Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)486-8992, closing on Monday. . A second exhibition organized by Ms. Sorokina is at Momenta Art, 72 Berry St., Williamsburg, also closing on Monday. (Cotter)

GRAPHIC: Photos: DANCE -- Far left, Bebe Miller's troupe brings ''Landing/Place'' to Dance Theater Workshop, Page 28.
ART -- Above, Oscar Bluemner's painting ''Expression of a Silktown, New Jersey (Paterson Center),'' is part of an exhibition at the Whitney Museum of American Art, Page 28.
MOVIES -- Cameron Diaz, left, and Toni Collette play sisters in Curtis Hanson's ''In Her Shoes,'' Page 26. (Photo by Lois Greenfield)
(Photo by Sidney Baldwin/20th Century Fox)
 (Photo by Whitney Museum of American Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); WRITERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); SONG WRITING (75%); POP & ROCK (72%); POETRY (71%); RESTAURANTS (68%); WORLD WAR II (67%); RELIGION (66%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); THEATER (58%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (59%)

PERSON: CAMERON DIAZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



275 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Inside Art; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 964 words

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel

 BODY:

Michelangelo Drawing Is Headed to Auction Block
 One of Michelangelo's last surviving drawings, and one of his last drawings still in private hands, is to be auctioned at Christie's in New York on Jan. 24. 
 The work, ''Study of a Male Torso,'' is one of a small group of late drawings that some scholars believe relate to a figure of Christ for a Pieta. Others think the work is simply a sketch made by an aging artist contemplating his mortality, something he did in his mystical poems of the same period.
''In this drawing you can really see the work of someone who spent 60 years drawing obsessively,'' said Will O'Reilly, head of old master drawings at Christie's worldwide. Mr. O'Reilly said that he believed Michelangelo was about 75 when he executed it. ''It is particularly rare because Michelangelo destroyed so many of his late drawings.'' 
 The work depicts a male torso, head cocked to one side, as one would see in a Pieta. Below it are studies for shoulders. 
 Although Christie's is not identifying the seller, experts in the field know the work well. It belongs to Walter Gernsheim, a German-born collector, dealer and art historian who bought it at Sotheby's in London in 1976 for $:178,200, then about $318,214, a record for an old master drawing at the time. (Experts at that auction said that Mr. Gernsheim outbid the National Gallery of Art in Washington, which had been looking for a late Michelangelo drawing.) 
 The drawing had been part of a famous collection put together by John Malcolm of Poltalloch, a Scottish landowner who died in 1893. 
 Christie's expects the drawing to sell for around $4 million, which seems low considering that another Michelangelo drawing, ''The Risen Christ,'' sold at Christie'sin 2000 for $12.3 million, again a record for an old master drawing at auction. 
 ''This is an important drawing, and at this level of the market it's almost impossible to put a price on it,'' Mr. O'Reilly said. ''It's a question of how much someone wants it, and that you cannot really gauge.''

Viewing Van Gogh
 When ''Van Gogh: The Drawings'' opens on Tuesday, officials at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, knowing they have a blockbuster on their hands, will be experimenting with ways to increase the number of visitors -- young and old -- for the duration of the show, which closes on Dec. 31. 
 For the first time, members may arrive at 9 a.m., a half-hour before the exhibition opens to the public. On limited Mondays, when the museum is closed, it will continue to offer viewings to anyone willing to pay a $50 admission, which includes an audio guide. (A limited number of tickets are available for Nov. 7, 14, 21 and 28 and Dec. 5, 12 and 19 from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Reservations may be made by telephone, (212)731-1200, or fax, (212)650-2253.) 
 ''We're essentially looking at ways to maximize our audience, to reach out to the broadest number of people possible,'' said Emily K. Rafferty, the Met's president. ''We also hope to build our membership as a result of these initiatives.'' 
 The museum is also trying new approaches to attract a younger audience.
 For the first time, Philippe de Montebello, the Met's director, famous for his plummy voice on all the audio guides, will not be the only voice visitors can hear. While Mr. de Montebello has recorded the show's audio guide, the actor Kevin Bacon may be heard on a 16-minute podcast of excerpts from van Gogh's letters. It can be downloaded from the Met's Web site, www.metmuseum.org. Van Gogh wrote the letters to his friends and family, particularly his brother, Theo, and they relate to his working process and to many of the specific works in the show. 

Russian Inflation
 Does $3 make a difference?
 To help pay for its $4 million ''Russia!'' exhibition, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum has temporarily raised admission to $18 from $15. But that doesn't seem to have hurt attendance. During the show's first three weeks -- it opened on Sept. 16 -- it attracted more than 85,000 visitors, about 10 percent more than ''The Aztec Empire'' last year. 
 What the public may also not realize is that ''Russia!'' consists of more than simply the exhibition filling the main galleries on Fifth Avenue; there are two related exhibitions. In the museum's Sackler Center for Arts Education is ''Reflections: Socialist Realism and Russian Art.'' That show, which opened Oct. 5 and runs through Jan. 22, consists of 25 paintings from the five-month-old Museum of Russian Art in Minneapolis. It has been organized as a teaching show, highlighting Russian life and culture as well as the myths and misconceptions often associated with Russian painting created from the mid-1930's to the dissolution of the Soviet Union. The show, divided into city and country life, includes major artists from the period like Geli Korzhev, Aleksei M. Gritsai, Vladimir Stozharov, Aleksandr Deineka and Sergei and Aleksei P. Tkachev. 
 Russia has also come to the Guggenheim Hermitage Museum in Las Vegas, where ''Russia! The Majesty of the Tsars: Treasures From the Kremlin Museum'' is on view until Jan. 15. Included are works of fine, decorative and applied arts, many from royal collections dating from the 16th and 17th centuries. 

Two Appointees
 Two art world appointments were announced this week.
 Michael L. Royce, the former president of the Moynihan Station Development Corporation, has been named executive director of the New York Foundation for the Arts. He replaces Ted Berger, who had held the job since 1980. 
 The Museum of Modern Art has found a replacement for Gary Garrels, who was the chief curator of drawings until he resigned in January to become senior curator at the Hammer Museum in Los Angeles. She is Cornelia H. Butler, curator at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michelangelo's ''Study of a Male Torso,'' to be auctioned Jan 24. (Photo by Christie's Images Ltd.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PAINTING (78%); ART HISTORY (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); HISTORY (72%); EXHIBITIONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



276 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STREET SCENE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: London's Financial District Feels Its Oats

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 13 

 BODY:
For Wall Street, these are good times. But London's financial industry is enjoying a particularly heady boom that may put New York, at least for the moment, to shame. 
 London has not quite returned to the halcyon days of 2000, but the tell-tale signs of good cheer are everywhere: bankers spending tens of thousands of pounds on Champagne, deal activity that is outpacing that in the United States and a surge in hiring at the big banks. Central London is going through a ''golden age,'' said Dennis Stevenson, the chairman of the British bank HBOS and the former chairman of Pearson. ''It's becoming more and more convenient for the large financial institutions to do business in London.'' 
London has long been the top financial center in Europe, where mergers and financing activity has been particularly robust this year. But London's appeal extends beyond Europe. The city is also perfectly situated to catch the wave of business coming West from growing Asian markets, the capital that is flowing in from the Middle East and some still-sizable outflows from Russia.
 In the third quarter, merger volume in Europe bested deal-making in the United States by $79 billion. Trading in euro bonds grew 2.6 percent, to $289 billion, according to the Bank for International Settlements. Total equity issuance in Europe through mid-September was $130 billion, versus $105 billion in the United States, according to Morgan Stanley.
 ''It's a much more active market than it was two years ago, and all the signs are there that it's going to be a healthy market'' in the near future, said Peter Tague, head of European M&A at Citigroup.
 Bankers and traders are in demand in London. Last month, The Evening Standard promoted one issue with billboards that screamed, ''Special pull-out section: 16,000 banking jobs.'' 
 Hiring has improved across financial markets in the last year, but ''London felt the upturn earlier and stronger than all of the others,'' said Jeffrey Joerres, chief executive of Manpower Inc., the Milwaukee-based employment services firm. 
 In New York, financial services are no longer grouped in a few blocks in Lower Manhattan. London's finance industry, however, is still concentrated in two main areas: the Square Mile, the historical seat of the City, the financial district, and Canary Wharf, the development in the docklands in the east. As of June 2005, 2,600 more people were employed in the financial industry in London than in New York. 
 ''In all three of those areas we are still recruiting,'' said Bob Diamond, chief executive of Barclays Capital. ''We're not underscale in Europe,'' he added, ''we're still seeing markets growing.'' 
 The bank expects to continue hiring, including 400 to 500 graduates each year for the next two years. 
 Calum Forrest, head of recruiting in Europe for Goldman Sachs, said, ''We hired steadily last year and are hiring steadily this year.'' The bank is filling spots in fixed income, currencies, commodities and equities. ''Investment banking has also been actively hiring to meet the increase in deal flow,'' he said. 
 Graduate hiring is ''on an uptick'' in the United States and Asia, but slightly higher in Europe, said Helen Bostock, vice president for global campus marketing at J.P. Morgan. At Lehman Brothers, hiring is up double digits from the year before. 
 New York is not impressed. ''While London is a wonderful and exciting city with a significant financial community, it cannot challenge New York City's position as the world's financial capital,'' said the president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, Andrew M. Alper. 
 Pay packages in London are rivaling those in New York. In particular, some London investment bankers can expect to outstrip their New York counterparts this bonus season. European credit, foreign exchange and derivative traders and bankers will also make 10 percent more than their United States counterparts in 2005, says Napier Scott, a headhunting firm for the market.
 Not surprisingly, the uptick is accompanied by tales of conspicuous consumption. Last month, one banker spent $:26,000 ($45,539) on Champagne -- and then $:15,000 on a cleaning bill -- after spraying the walls of the Movida Club in Soho with Cristal and Dom Perignon. This month, a hedge fund manager (here from New York on a deal) picked up a $:36,000 bill for the entire bar one evening at Aviva, a private club a chic hotel in the Knightsbridge neighborhood. 
 Real estate agents are salivating, and sales of luxury goods are up. ''Things have picked up more rapidly'' than is normal for this time of year, said Simon Larkin, a consultant for the wine merchant Lay & Wheeler. Its wealthier clients ( who spend more than $:5,000 a year on wine) ''are particularly active at the moment,'' he said.
 ''The City feels much more confident this year,'' said Andy Thackray, corporate account manager at the Sytner Group, a luxury car retailer that is the British subsidiary of the UnitedAuto Group. The company has gotten inquiries about big BMW's, Mercedeses and Porsches and the new Jaguar XK, he said. He warned against expecting a flurry of new Ferrari owners, though. ''Things aren't that good yet, but let's wait to see what City bonus brings'' in mid-December, he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: In the City, London's traditional financial district, success may not be in the air but it is visible in big Champagne bills and bigger paychecks. (Photographs by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)Chart shows securities industry, banking and insurance job figures since 2000 for London and New York City. (Sources by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, Department of Labor, Office of National Statistics [Britain])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BONDS (90%); MERGERS (88%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (72%); EUROBONDS (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Industry Profiles; Brokers and Brokerage Firms ; Labor; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); MANPOWERGROUP (81%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (54%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); MAN (NYSE) (81%); MS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%)

PERSON: JEFFREY A JOERRES (54%) Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Great Britain; London (Eng); New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



277 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: With Investors Uncertain, Markets Move Only Slightly

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street remained mired in uncertainty yesterday, ending an erratic session narrowly mixed as inflation worries worsened in the face of a sharp increase in import prices. 
 Investors found some encouragement after the Energy Department reported an increase in the nation's refining capacity, which had been severely disrupted by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
 The nation's crude oil reserves also rose, sending oil prices lower. A barrel of light crude was quoted at $63.08, down $1.04, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 But fretting over inflation dominated the markets after the Commerce Department said prices for imported goods rose 2.3 percent in August, the biggest increase in 15 years, and higher than a 0.9 percent increase economists had forecast. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 0.32, to 10,216.59. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 0.84, or 0.07 percent, to 1,176.84, and the Nasdaq composite index climbed 9.75, or 0.48 percent, to 2,047.22. 
 Bonds continued their recent sell-off, with the price on the 10-year Treasury note falling 5/32, to 98 10/32, and the yield, which moves inversely to the price, rising to 4.46 percent from 4.44 percent late Wednesday. The dollar advanced against most major currencies, while gold prices fell. 
 The news on import prices overshadowed a report on the nation's trade deficit, which rose to $59 billion in August, up from $58 billion the month before but less than economists had expected. 
 Investors were also disappointed by the employment picture from the Labor Department. First-time jobless claims fell last week, but only to 389,000, above the 360,000 that had been forecast.
 While a wave of corporate earnings reports expected next week may not be a panacea for the stock market's troubles, strong fourth-quarter profit forecasts could alleviate fears of a falloff in consumer spending for the holiday shopping season and give stocks a boost. 
 ''Earnings are the most likely catalyst in the short term,'' said Russ Koesterich, senior portfolio manager at Barclays Global Investments in San Francisco. ''The market is very concerned about inflation and the consumer rolling over because of higher prices. If the outlooks call for strong fourth-quarter sales, then you could see something good happen.'' 
 In company news, Google fell $3.53, to $297.44 a share, on reports that the Internet company is in talks to acquire a sizable stake in Time Warner's America Online unit. Time Warner rose 10 cents, to $17.59 a share. The cable operator Comcast was also reported to be involved in the talks, potentially leading to a split of AOL, with Google absorbing its Web sites and services and Comcast taking over its Internet service customers. Comcast lost 72 cents, to $27.20 a share. 
 Apple Computer, which introduced its new iPod after the close of trading Wednesday, rose $4.49, or 9 percent, to $53.74 a share.
 McDonald's, a Dow component, said it expected its third-quarter profit to beat Wall Street's forecasts as a result of strong sales of its new chicken sandwiches and stronger breakfast revenue. McDonald's climbed 38 cents, to $32.05 a share. 
 Refco Inc. fell $2.95, or 27 percent, to $7.90 a share before trading was halted by the New York Stock Exchange. The company said it would freeze customer accounts in its unregulated capital markets subsidiary for 15 days because it might not have sufficient liquidity. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of 10-year Treasury notes.



 (000 omitted in dollar figures)	 	High Price	99.796	High Yield	1.979	Low Yield	1.000	Median Yield	1.940	Accepted at low price	%88	Total applied for	$16,875,481	Accepted	$8,000,006	Noncompetitive	$52,321	Interest set at	%1.875	The 10-year inflation notes mature July 15, 2015	 	




GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Tax-Exempt Yields'' shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since June, 2005. (Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since June, 2005. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); IMPORT PRICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); SALES FIGURES (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (76%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (62%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); HURRICANE KATRINA (57%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: AOL INC (62%); BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTMENTS (52%); GOOGLE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (62%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (62%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (62%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



278 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and China End Textile Talks Without Reaching an Agreement

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BEIJING, Oct. 13 

 BODY:
A fourth round of talks between the United States and China on a dispute over surging Chinese exports of low-priced textiles ended Thursday without agreement, the chief United States negotiator said. 
 A brief written statement issued by the negotiator, David M. Spooner, gave no indication of whether the two sides made any progress or the reason they failed to reach agreement.
 ''We have not come to an agreement that meets the needs of our domestic manufacturers and retailers,'' Mr. Spooner's statement said. ''Our overall goal, as we've said all along, is to reach a longer-term solution that will permit greater stability in textile and apparel trade.'' 
 Chinese textile exports soared after the end of a worldwide quota system on Jan. 1. 
 ''It's normal to have some frictions in the course of developing Sino-U.S. relations,'' China's Foreign Ministry spokesman, Kong Quan, said when asked for a reaction to the talks' conclusion. 
 ''We hope both sides will face these problems with an objective and calm attitude to help realize a more stable and healthy basis for further development,'' Mr. Kong said at a news briefing. 
 Washington responded to complaints by American textile producers by limiting the growth in imports of Chinese pants, blouses and other textile goods to 7.5 percent a year. 
 Beijing has threatened to take the dispute to the World Trade Organization. But United States officials say Washington is obeying W.T.O. rules that allow governments to resort to safeguards when specific industries risk being overwhelmed by imports. 
 There was no indication when talks would resume, though Neena Moorjani, Mr. Spooner's press secretary, said the two sides would discuss holding another round. Mr. Spooner left Beijing later Thursday. 
 Manufacturers in the United States contend that thousands of jobs have been lost and 31 textile plants have been forced to close just this year because of the sharp increase in Chinese shipments. 
 Cass Johnson, president of the National Council of Textile Organizations, accused the Chinese side of refusing to compromise by insisting on unacceptable terms. 
 The proposed agreement ''would have been extremely damaging to the U.S. industry and its workers,'' Ms. Johnson said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TEXTILE MFG (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TEXTILE MILLS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FABRIC MILLS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RETAILERS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (66%) Textiles; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%) China

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



279 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Snow Urges Consumerism On China Trip 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: MULAN, China, Oct. 13 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, touring this village in the Sichuan province to promote ''financial modernization,'' urged China on Thursday to take lessons from the United States on how to spend more, borrow more and save less.
 Mr. Snow argued that China's consumers and entrepreneurs are badly in need of financial sophistication offered by American banks and investment banks.
As he wandered through a thriving farmers' market and a traditional rural credit cooperative, Mr. Snow said that with better credit, Chinese families would be able to spend more money, buy more goods and perhaps reduce China's huge trade surplus with the United States. 
 ''Good credit facilitation and consumer finance is going to help consumers buy more things,'' Mr. Snow said. 
 ''We see consumerism and consumer credit as going directly to the thing we have most on our minds -- the global imbalances.'' 
 It has been an awkward lecture at times, given that China's economy is still growing at a blistering pace of 9 percent, is a huge magnet for foreign investors and is one of the United States' biggest creditors.
 China's savings rate is nearly 50 percent, one of the highest rates in the world. The savings rate in the United States, by contrast, has sunk to less than zero in recent months and is one of the lowest rates in the world.
 Chinese leaders have already told American officials in the last year that they need to get their own house in order by reducing their fiscal budget deficits. The Chinese leaders are also keenly aware of the debate within the United States about the rising use of risky new types of home mortgages to finance homes that people would otherwise not be able to afford.
 Here in this farming village of 36,000 inhabitants, the outdoor market was packed with about 250 vendors who showed Mr. Snow pork bellies, bean curd, spices and pastries. At Wang Ting Ting's appliance store, residents pay cash for glistening new Chinese-made washing machines, televisions and DVD players. 
 But that has not slowed Mr. Snow from lecturing China on the need for better financial ''products'' -- from credit cards for consumers to credit derivative swaps for hedge fund traders.
 In a pause in his visit here, Mr. Snow said foreign financial institutions could become just as prominent in Chinese business as foreign-owned five-star hotels are in the skylines of Shanghai and Beijing.
 ''Go to the hotels in Shanghai and you get hotel services as good as anywhere in the world,'' he said. ''They've imported their hotels. What we're saying is you can do the same thing in finance.''
 Mr. Snow's comments underscored the Bush administration's newest theme toward China: the need for the world's most populous nation to promote more growth at home and less from exports. Many economists agree, saying that China -- much like Japan and other Asian nations -- has pinned too much of its economic strategy on exports and neglected its domestic consumers.
 Treasury officials give two reasons for their new emphasis. First, they see big opportunities for American banks and investment banks to sell services in China. Second, they hope that increased financial sophistication in China will lead to higher consumer spending, which, in turn, could reduce the huge trade imbalances that China is building up with the rest of the world.
 ''This is a bright opportunity in the economic relationship,'' Timothy D. Adams, under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs, said shortly before Mr. Snow set out from Washington last week.
 Chinese officials have given Mr. Snow a polite and even warm reception, blocking whole highways to make room for his motorcade and scheduling time with top leaders like Premier Wen Jiabao and, it is expected, President Hu Jintao.
 But even Chinese officials who support modern trading systems and flexible exchange rates are reluctant to give up control. They also bristle at American pressure for changes in their policies.
 For nearly two years, Mr. Snow has focused on persuading China to let its currency, the yuan, float more freely. Critics of China charge that the yuan is badly undervalued, making Chinese exports cheap and giving Chinese manufacturers an unfair competitive advantage. 
 That struggle remains very much on Mr. Snow's agenda. Though China officially abandoned its fixed peg to the dollar in July, in practice it has kept the yuan from moving beyond the 2.1 percent revaluation on the first day of the new policy.
 But administration officials are placing greater emphasis than before on ''financial modernization.'' In his visits to China's fledgling foreign currency exchange, run by the People's Bank of China, Mr. Snow has praised the development of a new ''platform'' for trading currencies and futures contracts in currencies. 
 Administration officials are also backing efforts by Wall Street firms to let American companies own a controlling stake in financial firms in China. Next Monday, Mr. Snow will be the keynote speaker at a major conference on China's capital markets. Other speakers include Christopher Cox, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and Reuben Jeffery III, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
 Chinese leaders will be at that conference in force as well. Zhou Xiaochuan, governor of the People's Bank of China, is expected to give a speech, and a long list of Chinese financial officials will take part in panels on financial regulation.
 Though lawmakers in Congress have focused much of their anger on China's exchange rate, many administration officials are skeptical that even a much bigger upward revaluation of the yuan will have a major impact on the trade deficit with China, which rose 4.6 percent in August to $18.5 billion.
 Mr. Snow said that he had no ''bottom line'' on how much the currency should adjust to prevent the United States from accusing China of outright currency manipulation.
 But Mr. Snow and other Treasury officials are much more confident about the need for China to increase domestic demand.
 On his trip to Mulan on Thursday, Mr. Snow sat down for a meeting with officials from the city's rural credit cooperative. The meeting was organized in part by Xiang Junbo, deputy governor of the People's Bank of China, who began the meeting by noting that many rural cooperatives are troubled in how they make loans.
 Huang Caofu, manager of Mulan's credit cooperative, noted that his institution had deposits of about 250 million yuan, or about $31 million, and loans of about 130 million yuan -- a fairly low ratio of deposits to loans.
 ''The big issues with rural cooperatives is the lack of a good, strong supervision system and very high non-performing loans,'' Mr. Snow told reporters after his meeting. Without better methods of analyzing credit risk and a greater willingness to make loans based on objective judgments of risks and opportunities, he said, ''capital is getting into the hands of those who cannot make the best use of it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary John Snow, browsing Chinese open-air shops, urged officials to develop domestic markets. (Photo by China Photos/Getty Images)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAVINGS RATES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (83%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); BUDGETS (79%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); PORK (72%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); CD & DVD DRIVES (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (61%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



280 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Widens on Rising Energy Imports 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The nation's trade deficit worsened in August, all but erasing a brief improvement in July, the government reported yesterday. Another report showed that import prices surged last month as the cost of oil, natural gas and other energy products jumped after the two severe hurricanes in the Gulf Coast.
 Americans imported $59 billion more in goods and services than they exported in August, up 1.8 percent from July, with the growth largely driven by bigger and more expensive imports of energy commodities, according to the Commerce Department. Exports of airplanes, cars, chemicals and soybeans increased but not enough to offset larger energy imports. 
In another report, the Labor Department said that import prices jumped 2.3 percent in September, their biggest monthly jump since October 1990. Petroleum prices rose 7.3 percent, and natural gas costs soared 28.8 percent in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Prices for imports excluding fuels rose a more modest 0.4 percent. 
 Compared with September 2004, import prices were 9.9 percent higher last month, and petroleum import prices were 48.9 percent higher.
 The two hurricanes disrupted oil and natural gas production and distribution, driving energy costs up to new records in September. Imports of those commodities rose in the aftermath of the devastation to make up for the shortfall of domestic production, indicating that the trade deficit may have worsened further last month.
 ''There is an imbalance in terms of the demand and supply of energy which continues to be satisfied, or is increasingly satisfied, by external sources of energy products,'' said Brian A. Bethune, an economist at Global Insight, a research firm. ''Now, we have a situation that has been even more complicated because of a domestic supply shock.''
 That is not to say that exports have been sluggish. For much of the year, they have been growing at a faster pace than imports, but because exports are increasing from a smaller base the deficit has increased. So far this year, the trade deficit has averaged $57.9 billion a month, 16.7 percent higher than the monthly average at this time in 2004.
 The picture improves when petroleum products are removed from the calculation. Excluding those goods, the trade deficit narrowed to $41.7 billion in August, from $42.8 billion in July. The average monthly deficit without petroleum goods was 11 percent higher in the first eight months of the year than in the same period in 2004.
 Economists say the market for American goods and services is improving in places like Canada, Japan and even Europe. ''The major markets overseas -- Europe, Japan and Asia -- have fairly solid underlying momentum,'' Mr. Bethune said. ''Japan is certainly improving, and Europe is more like the Queen Elizabeth slowly turning around.''
 The much-watched trade deficit with China, however, expanded 4.6 percent, to $18.5 billion in August.
 Separately, the Labor Department reported yesterday that the number of people filing new claims for unemployment benefits last week fell slightly to 389,000 when adjusted for seasonal variations. An estimated 75,000 jobless claims on a nonseasonally adjusted basis were filed by people affected by the hurricanes, bringing the total of those claims to 438,000 since Hurricane Katrina made landfall in late August. 
 Excluding the hurricane-related claims, unemployment claims have fallen in recent weeks and are lower than they were this time last year. That seems to echo the data from last week's employment report, which showed that the total number of jobs fell by 35,000 in September, far less than many had feared.
 Economists caution that it may take some time to fully gauge the hurricanes' full impact. They will get more data today when the Labor Department reports on consumer prices and the Commerce Department reports on retail sales.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Filing paperwork at a Shreveport, La., unemployment office. Hurricane-related claims rose last week. (Photo by Robert Ruiz/The Times, Shreveport, La., via Associated Press)Chart: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.Graph shows the 4-week moving average since May, 2005.(Sources by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (95%); IMPORT PRICES (93%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); HURRICANES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); WEATHER (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); CHEMICALS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (74%) SOUTHEAST USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



281 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Foundations Join City's Effort On Affordable Housing Loans

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration and five large foundations have set up a $40 million fund that is expected to help finance 30,000 homes for low- and moderate-income people in the city over the next decade, the mayor's office said yesterday. 
 The creation of the fund, which is expected to be announced today by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, has drawn tentative commitments for more than $100 million in additional low-interest-rate loans from banks, according to city officials.
In total, city officials expect that $200 million will be available for loans to developers of affordable housing. To date, about $34.5 million of the $40 million has been committed, with $8 million coming directly from the city. 
 The program, known as the New York City Affordable Housing Acquisition Fund, is being established because the chief source of that kind of housing -- 5,000 vacant lots claimed and sold by the city -- has dried up.
 ''The question was, what is Act II?'' said Florence A. Davis of the Starr Foundation, which made a $12.5 million grant to the fund. 
 The fund will create housing units on a level similar to the last few years of the vacant lot development program, said Shaun Donovan, the commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. In addition, the financing will be used to buy a large number of rental apartments that will lose affordable housing protections.
 In the red-hot real estate market, affordable housing developers have been at a disadvantage because they need time to line up financing, often from several sources. Developers said they would use the fund to make rapid short-term loans until more permanent financing is obtained.
 ''It's exciting that they've figured out a way to address this really substantial barrier to affordable housing development,'' said Hilary Botein, coordinator for Housing First!, a coalition that advocates investment in affordable housing in New York City. 
 Affordable housing developers also have difficulty securing loans from banks because of the high level of risk. The fund will act as an intermediary, absorbing much of the risk of default, and thus will obtain loans at only 1 percent above the benchmark rate that banks use to lend to one another overnight.
 In addition to the money from the city and the Starr Foundation, the Rockefeller, MacArthur and Ford Foundations, along with the Open Society Institute, are providing loans at 1 percent interest for 10 years. The Rockefeller and MacArthur Foundations are each providing $5 million in loans and the Ford Foundation is providing $4 million. 
 ''What is innovative is that it brings together in one facility for the first time some of the best and most creative financing strategies that have been used by Wall Street, by philanthropy and by government and community development entities,'' said Judith Rodin, the president of the Rockefeller Foundation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CHARITIES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



282 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: In Love With a Spa? Want a Long-Term Relationship?

BYLINE: By AMY GUNDERSON

 BODY:
EVERY year, twice a year, Judy Eiserman vacations at a Canyon Ranch spa: summers in Lenox, Mass., winters in Tucson. So when she and her husband, Michael, heard about the new Canyon Ranch Living condominium development going up in Miami Beach, they didn't hesitate. ''We got on a plane to Miami the next day,'' Ms. Eiserman said. 
 Last year they purchased a third-floor, three-bedroom corner unit with granite counters and Miele appliances in the kitchen and floor-to-ceiling windows that overlook the ocean and a 750-foot stretch of sandy beach. (Although she declined to say what they paid, similar apartments were going for about $2 million.) ''My husband heard about it from a Realtor, who asked him if he had ever been to Canyon Ranch,'' Ms. Eiserman said. ''He just giggled and said, 'My wife is going to go crazy.''' 
To the mix of gated communities, golf developments and condominium hotels looking for a piece of the hot vacation real estate market, add spa resorts. Armed with a cache of loyal visitors, a growing number of spas are now selling premium-priced condos and villas along with the usual hot stone massages and oxygen facials. The projects range from 252 condominiums being built at the Bonaventure Resort and Golden Door Spa in Weston, Fla., to 12 homes going up on the grounds of the Rancho Valencia Resort in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. ''We are selling a lifestyle,'' said Deborah Evans, general manager of Red Mountain Spa in Utah, which is building 52 villas against a backdrop of desert canyons and red rocks. ''People who have bought here have an interest in long-term health and self care.'' Indeed, Spa Finder, a spa travel and marketing company, started tracking spa real estate just this year. It already has more than 100 resorts in its database.
 The jump in the number of spas selling vacation residences has as much to do with the continued strength of the real estate market as it does with buyers seeking regular Ayurvedic treatments. ''This is a function of those companies seeing an opportunity to get in on the surging housing market,'' said John Burns, a consultant to residential developers. ''Obviously, the long-term demographics for people in their 50's and 60's play into this. Not everyone wants to live on a golf course in Florida.''
 Canyon Ranch's Miami Beach project is perhaps the splashiest entry. When the development is completed, it will have three swimming pools along with a 70,000-square-foot spa building including exercise areas and 22 treatment rooms, as well as an igloo, where guests can cool down after an herbal sauna. Owners won't be able to move in until the end of 2006, but the first phase of the 430 condominiums and 150 condo hotel rooms, with prices ranging from just under $1 million to $9 million, is already sold out. The second phase, with prices starting at $1.7 million (and starting at $2.9 million for available three-bedroom condos), is about 70 percent sold. For a monthly fee of $350, buyers will have access to the spa and classes, as well as vouchers for $200 worth of food and treatments each month.
 Pamela Liebman, the chief executive officer of the Corcoran Group, a New York real estate company, is among the buyers. Ms. Liebman and her husband, Michael, purchased a three-bedroom condo at Canyon Ranch Living. Instead of renting out their place when they're not using it, Ms. Liebman expects to trade it for weeks at other vacation sites. ''It's very tradable,'' she said. ''I'll swap it for a week in Aspen.''
 On a five-day visit to the Red Mountain Spa in Utah earlier this year, Susan Furman bought a two-bedroom villa with views of the red-rock desert, three fireplaces, a large soaking tub and a shower with a river rock floor and an oversize rain showerhead.
 ''I had no idea that I would be buying something,'' said Ms. Furman, who said she spent about $400,000 for the property. In September, she spent 10 days there, getting acupuncture and an adobe lavender wrap, going on hikes through nearby Zion and Bryce Canyon National Parks and eating three meals a day in the spa restaurant (all included in an optional $100 daily resort fee that condo owners pay when they're in residence). Ms. Furman said she expected to travel from her home in Palm Beach, Fla., to the condo for six weeks during the year.
 Not all the spa condos are in places usually thought of as luxury destination resorts. Sundara Inn & Spa is in Wisconsin Dells, an area more associated with giant water parks and family vacations. But it is building eight residences tucked into the woods on its 26-acre property. Built side by side, the feng-shui-approved 1,700-square foot houses share a spa garden, a cedar soaking tub, an outdoor shower and a 563-square-foot bathhouse with two massage tables. 
 A $350 monthly fee gets owners access to the spa's fitness rooms, its 14 treatment rooms and the infinity-edge outdoor pool that is kept at a steady 86 degrees and surrounded by a heated deck. ''You can go in it in January when it's minus 12 degrees outside,'' said Kelli Trumble, Sundara's chief executive officer. The residences start at $750,000 and can sleep up to eight people.
 Other bigger-name spas are about to get into real estate. Miraval, in Arizona, where celebrities like Oprah Winfrey (she featured it on her ''Favorite Things'' holiday gift show last year) and Jim Carrey have been spotted, will start its first condo offering next month. Steve Case, the former chairman of AOL Time Warner, bought a 70 percent stake in the spa last year. Flush with cash, Miraval bought 200-plus more acres, bringing its total land to around 400 acres, and is constructing a new 42-room spa building. In January, it's planning to break ground on 30 one-bedroom units and 20 two-bedroom units ranging in price from $700,000 to $1.5 million. Each will have a meditation space and a private outdoor courtyard.
 ''These are vacation home villas,'' said Harley Mayersohn, Miraval's vice president for branding and marketing. ''They are really designed as winter homes, but we are reasonably sure that people who do buy here will be buying into the lifestyle.'' 
 IN most cases, buyers won't actually be living full time at their spa homes, but the developments have different policies on what happens to vacant units. At Canyon Ranch in Tucson, where a 20-home development is now going up, with a mixture of custom residences and casitas, buyers will not be able to put their homes into the resort rental pool when they're not around.
 ''We have to be careful about guest impact on the spa,'' said Linda Proctor, a broker with Arena Realty, which is the exclusive agent for the Canyon Ranch project. ''If all the residences were rented out we could not handle it.''
 La Costa Resort and Spa in Carlsbad, Calif., won't let owners use their places more than 120 days a year, with time booked well in advance. When the condo is not in use, the owners can rent it out. 
 ''It makes sure that the hotel is always a hotel environment,'' said Chevis Hosea, the vice president of development at La Costa. ''We don't want to turn this into a five-star retirement home.''
 One issue at all the resorts is the need to accommodate the competing demands of condo owners and hotel guests for time at the spa. Some, like Red Mountain and Miraval, are constructing larger spas to serve more guests. Miraval will also reserve a limited number of appointment times just for condo owners during periods of peak demand. Sundara got around the issue by putting treatment rooms in the bathhouses at the residences so that owners can get spa services there when the main spa is booked. 
 And more spas are likely to get into real estate soon. ''The economics are extremely compelling,'' said Bjorn Hanson, the head of PricewaterhouseCoopers's hospitality division. Not only are home buyers willing to pay more for a spa residence, but operators also ensure a steady demand for services and earn additional income from management fees and rental programs. ''It is good for every reason we can think of,'' said Mr. Hanson.
 Indeed, combining condos and mud wraps has been so successful that developers of nonspa properties are starting to take notice. Susie Ellis, the president of Spa Finder, said she had received an increasing number of phone calls from builders who want to combine with an existing spa brand or build their own spa. 
 That's exactly what Bighorn, a gated community and golf club in Palm Desert, Calif., did. In 2002, sales at the community totaled $84 million. That same year, the developers put in a 13,000-square-foot spa complete with 11 treatment rooms, two outdoor couples massage tables and a hydrotherapy room with a 96-jet whirlpool tub, and saw an immediate jump in sales. In the first nine months of this year, more than $227 million worth of property was sold. Theresa Maggio, Bighorn's marketing director, said that although Bighorn's two 18-hole golf courses appeal mostly to men, the spa appealed to women, helping to increase sales. 
 ''Most of the women are the decision makers,'' said Ms. Maggio. ''They come here and see that they can have their own spa.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: VACATION HOMES -- The Canyon Ranch spa and condominium complex, above, is being built in Miami Beach. The infinity edge pool, left, at the Sundara Inn & Spa in Wisconsin. Behind it is a new residence. (Photo by Rhona Wise for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Sundara Spa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESORTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BEACHES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); MASSAGE SERVICES (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (70%); GOLF (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (93%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



283 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Criticize Rell's Choice for Campaign Lawyer 

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Oct. 13 

 BODY:
Gov. M. Jodi Rell served as John G. Rowland's lieutenant governor for nine years but has sought to distance herself from the scandals that brought him down. Now she is reaching back into his administration for help as she prepares for next year's election for governor.
 Mrs. Rell has told a close group of supporters that she has selected Ross H. Garber, Mr. Rowland's in-house counsel while he was governor, to be her campaign's chief lawyer, according to several of those supporters. Mr. Rowland hired Mr. Garber to advise him after coming under federal investigation in a scandal over state contracts that resulted in his resignation and the elevation of Mrs. Rell last year. 
Though Mr. Garber is a highly regarded lawyer on government ethics and campaign finance, his work with Mr. Rowland provides ammunition for Democrats. Mrs. Rell pronounced ethics as her top priority during her inaugural speech on July 1, 2004, and has proposed what would be the most far-reaching campaign finance reform in the country.
 A Rell spokesman, Adam Jeamel, said Mr. Garber would work on a ''volunteer basis, very informal. She respects him as an attorney and she welcomes his support.'' For his part, Mr. Garber said on Thursday, ''The offer has not yet been formalized.'' 
 But, he said, he was ''always honored when someone asks for my advice'' and he would be ''as helpful as possible'' if she sought his counsel.
 Two mayors who plan to seek the Democratic nomination for governor made it clear on Thursday that they would zero in on Mr. Garber's selection as they seek to take on Mrs. Rell, a Republican who received an 80 percent approval rating in a recent poll.
 ''You don't have this governor taking the state any place different than it's been in the past. Now she's got the same ethics adviser as John Rowland,'' said John DeStefano, who is the New Haven mayor and one of the Democratic candidates.
 He said that Mrs. Rell retained the same Rowland-appointed commissioners in the Departments of Economic Development and Transportation. Christopher Cooney, the campaign manager for Dannel P. Malloy, the Stamford mayor and another Democratic primary contender, said, ''It would be very difficult for Jodi Rell to disassociate herself from this scandalous legacy of John Rowland if she has as one of her top advisors the person whose job it was to defend and basically guide him through the corruption scandal.''
 Mr. Garber, 38, who ran unsuccessfully for state treasurer in 2002, helped guide Mr. Rowland through a blizzard of federal subpoenas in 2003 and 2004. Mr. Garber also advised Mr. Rowland as he faced an impeachment inquiry in 2004 that ended with his resignation.
 The former governor is now serving a sentence of a year and a day in federal prison in Pennsylvania after pleading guilty to accepting $120,000 worth of trips and home improvement from people doing business with the state. 
 Mr. Garber remained in the office of the governor during her transition to the position. Before he was hired by Mr. Rowland in January 2003, Mr. Garber's career included time at Shipman & Goodwin, the Hartford law firm where he practiced white-collar criminal defense and where he now works.
 ''I am a lawyer, not a political pundit,'' he said. ''I represented many clients before John Rowland and a lot since.''
 William Nickerson, a state senator from Greenwich who was among the supporters present when Mrs. Rell named Mr. Garber, said of him on Thursday: ''No one has ever challenged his ethics. No one has ever suggested he had any part to play in the scandal.''
 Another Rell supporter, Lewis B. Rome, the 1982 Republican nominee for governor and former chairman of the University of Connecticut board of trustees, said: ''I think she has respect for him. She has a good heart, good instincts.''
 Howard L. Reiter, chairman of the political science department at the University of Connecticut, said that Mrs. Rell's getting involved with Mr. Garber on the sensitive issue of ethics is risky but that the public will probably dismiss it. ''When you compare this to the kinds of things Rowland was in trouble for, this is inside baseball,'' he said.
 Mrs. Rell already settled one ethical issue herself.
 On Thursday, Mr. Jeamel first said the bill for the alcohol served at the mansion meeting when Mrs. Rell discussed her campaign was sent to the Republican State Central Committee. But state election law says that the committee can provide funding for official candidates only, and Mrs. Rell had not yet announced her candidacy. A few hours later, Mr. Jeamel said Mrs. Rell would pay the bill herself.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, Ross H. Garber was former Gov. John G. Rowland's in-house counsel
 left, Gov. M. Jodi Rell has selected him to serve as her campaign's chief lawyer. (Photographs by Bob Child/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ETHICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); LAWYERS (72%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (70%); SUBPOENAS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: M JODI RELL (93%); DANNEL MALLOY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



284 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Kansas Senator, Looking at Presidential Bid, Makes Faith the Bedrock of Campaign

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Oct. 13 

 BODY:
After testing his stump speech on Tuesday night, Senator Sam Brownback rose early on Wednesday for a tour of the cavernous chapel and regimental dining hall used by the 30 remaining Benedictine monks of St. Anselm's abbey. 
 ''I wondered if the numbers were starting to tick up?'' Mr. Brownback asked hopefully of the monastery's population.
''It is more of a trickle than a stream,'' said the Rev. Jonathan DeFelice, president of St. Anselm College, noting that there were more than 70 monks when he arrived 30 years ago. 
 Mr. Brownback, an evangelical-Protestant-turned-Roman Catholic from Kansas who attends services in the two faiths each Sunday and once washed an aide's feet in a gesture of humble devotion, is contemplating a big bet on a resurgence in traditionalist faith that he hoped to find in the monastery's numbers. 
 He came here to assess the potential for a Republican presidential primary campaign centered on opposition to abortion and support for God in public life, while back in Washington his current role as the Republican most publicly questioning the Supreme Court nomination of Harriet E. Miers is becoming the first big test of his long-shot campaign.
 ''The thought does come into my mind,'' Mr. Brownback, 49, conceded with a furrowed brow in an interview. ''But then I really work at saying: 'No, this is not about that. This is about what is good for the country. This is not about presidential ambitions.'''
 That is not stopping Mr. Brownback from bringing up Ms. Miers's nomination in his first steps to the campaign trail. When he was a guest lecturer at a St. Anselm class on politics on Wednesday, a student asked which ''one thing'' he would have done differently if he had been in the Oval Office over the last five years. 
 Other primary contenders have staked out critiques of the Iraq war or the budget deficit, but Mr. Brownback's answer was President Bush's second nomination for the court. With Ms. Miers, Mr. Brownback said, ''we just don't know her background on judicial restraint and on the Constitution.''
 The premise of his ambitions is that the country has ''re-engaged with its faith'' in a historic revival. He hopes that his combination of a humble, earnest style and broader focus on human rights, prison reform and other humanitarian issues will enable him to capitalize on that revival more effectively than predecessors like Pat Robertson or John Ashcroft. 
 ''The last time you had this many people of faith coming into the public square and the body politic'' was 100 years ago, in the era of the populist champion William Jennings Bryan, Mr. Brownback told a group of St. Anselm students over lunch. ''By the end of that period, a lot of people were really starting to look at it as harsh and exclusionary.''
 The senator added that he hoped to deliver his message of ''faith in politics'' with ''a great gentleness'' instead.
 Before the debate over Ms. Miers, however, Mr. Brownback's message was not carrying very far, some conservatives said.
 ''I mention him oftentimes to grass-roots people who call me and say: 'What are we doing? We don't have a candidate in 2008,''' said Paul Weyrich of the Free Congress Foundation, a founder of the modern conservative movement.
 In contrast to the familiarity with Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, or Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, both Republicans, ''most of them had not heard of him,'' Mr. Weyrich said.
 ''Sam would need, either by major legislation that he sponsored or by taking on the administration on something, to drastically increase his profile in order to have people around the country say, 'Boy, that is the guy we want to support,''' Mr. Weyrich added. 
 Bucking the president on Ms. Miers's nomination, though, carries risks. Many conservatives say Ms. Miers lacks the qualifications or a dependable enough conservative record to warrant a Supreme Court seat. But some evangelical Christians support her as one of their own.
 ''They're going to turn against a Christian who is a conservative picked by a conservative president, and they're going to vote against her for confirmation?'' Mr. Robertson said Wednesday on his television program. ''Not on your sweet life, if they want to stay in office.''
 Others in the Republican Party say Mr. Brownback's focus on abortion could alienate some voters. Jennifer Blei Stockman, co-chairwoman for the Republican Majority for Choice, argued that Mr. Bush was elected in part by soft-pedaling his opposition to abortion and emphasizing other issues. 
 ''A lot of moderate voters voted for him because of 9/11 and because of our foreign policy, not wanting to change horses in midstream,'' Ms. Stockman said.
 When Mr. Brownback, a former Kansas agriculture secretary, first ran for Congress in 1994, he also campaigned as a very different candidate. In a contested Republican primary, he was generally considered the candidate friendlier to abortion rights because he did not oppose abortions in cases of rape or incest or to protect the life of the pregnant woman. 
 He called for cuts in federal spending by eliminating government programs or selling a government building adjacent to the Capitol.
 What shifted his focus, he said, was a case of melanoma in 1995. 
 ''It really caused me to stare at the end of life, and I wasn't very pleased with how I was living at that time,'' he recalled. ''It sunk my roots real deep into my faith.''
 It was at that time, he said, that a ritual at an event by the Christian men's group Promise Keepers inspired him to wash the feet of a longtime aide in front of other staff members at a farewell reception. It was, Mr. Brownback said, a ''biblical model of what servant leadership is.''
 The renewed interest in faith led him to convert to Catholicism about three years ago, with the sponsorship of Senator Santorum.
 In his Senate campaign in 1996, Mr. Brownback began to shift his emphasis from economic issues to social issues like abortion. 
 He now oversees a weekly meeting on Capitol Hill of a Values Action Team of social conservative groups, and his most high-profile moment before the Miers nomination was holding hearings on obscenity and violence in the news media after the Columbine High School shootings in Colorado. 
 He has championed bans on human cloning and embryonic stem cell research, as well as a proposed constitutional amendment that would ban same-sex marriage. At the Republican National Convention in 2004 he rallied a closed-door meeting of Christian conservatives with calls for a ''cultural war.'' 
 Mr. Brownback has also taken up causes not traditionally associated with conservatives like protecting human rights abroad, providing aid to Africa and building an African-American history museum. 
 He has maintained a staunchly conservative voting record on economic issues. But instead of calling for specific cuts in government programs, he talks about a nonpartisan commission like the panel on closing military bases to take the issue out of lawmakers' hands.
 ''I am giving you a bit of a different message here today,'' he told the St. Anselm students. ''A lot of it is a very Republican message. But hopefully a big core of it is a, very hopefully, faith in politics message.'' 
 His hero, he told them, is William Wilberforce, the 19th-century British crusader against slavery. He twice quoted Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, as a ''great philosopher'' on government and culture. 
 And Mr. Brownback reminded the students repeatedly that he considered himself just ''a very imperfect beast'' and a ''dirty practitioner'' of politics. He called the role of religion in government ''the great debate of our season'' and abortion ''the defining issue of the difference between the political parties today.''
 Returning again and again to his frustration with Ms. Miers's nomination, he said: ''That is something the president campaigned on. It is something a lot of people have been active on, to change the courts, to overturn Roe v. Wade. And now you have your second nominee who is not known on Roe.'' 
 Even so, he said, he still does not know whether he will vote for or against confirming her.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Austin and Ruth Conley, left, of Manchester, N.H., with Senator Sam Brownback. The senator is questioning the court nomination of Harriet E. Miers, whom he met with last month. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Michael Dwyer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); RELIGION (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (75%); POLITICS (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); PRISONS (50%); BUDGETS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SAMUEL BROWNBACK (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%) KANSAS, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



285 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: A Dead Heat for Last Place

 BODY:
The European Union and Japan can now claim to be way out in front in the race to see just how little the rich countries can get away with offering when it comes to making good on promises to liberalize farm trade. As negotiations at the World Trade Organization dragged on in Geneva this week, Japan and Europe both objected to American terms when the United States proposed cuts in farm subsidies. Japanese officials refused point-blank to consider the American proposal that Japan cut its own subsidies. 
 During the negotiations, the E.U. trade chief, Peter Mandelson, actually warned against trying to do too much, as if such a thing was possible. ''You have to be careful of overbidding in a round like this,'' Mr. Mandelson said, presumably with a straight face.
France, worried that its farmers may actually have to compete without having the government hold their hands, complained that Mr. Mandelson's go-slow approach was actually too fast. Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said he didn't like Mr. Mandelson's making offers to open access to the E.U.'s agriculture market ''without prior consultation with member states.'' This came after France slammed the American proposal.
 So let's be realistic: the developed world funnels nearly $1 billion a day in subsidies to its own farmers, encouraging overproduction. That drives down prices and leaves farmers in poor nations unable to compete with subsidized products, even within their own countries.
 In recent years, American farmers have been able to dump cotton, wheat, rice, corn and other products on world markets at prices that do not begin to cover their cost of production, all because of politicians -- and at the expense of American taxpayers. Europe's system is even worse: the United States' farm subsidies are equal to only a third of the European Union's. 
 The United States trade representative, Robert Portman, unveiled his proposal in Geneva on Monday to kick-start the farm trade talks, which are supposed to conclude -- or at least come close to concluding -- in December, when the W.T.O. has its big meeting in Hong Kong. 
 Mr. Portman's proposal is a step in the right direction. The United States would slash the allowable farm subsidies by 60 percent. In return, Europe and Japan would cut their subsidies by 83 percent -- a higher percentage because countries in Europe, along with Japan, have higher subsidies.
 Mr. Portman's offer includes some economic pain for American farmers, particularly those who grow corn and soybeans. But it doesn't go far enough because it fails to address the long-term issues of declining commodity prices and the unchecked tendencies of some American farmers to overproduce because they know the United States government will bail them out. 
 Time is running out; the trade ministers have agreed to resume talks next week in Geneva. It is incumbent on developing countries to wring as much as they can from America and Europe on farm trade by using the leverage they have in these negotiations -- namely the fact that big business on both sides of the Atlantic dearly wants an overall deal that will liberalize rules and lower tariffs on manufactured products, agriculture and services. Poor countries should refuse to sign onto a new world trade pact until the United States, Europe and Japan drastically cut their farm subsidies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (77%); COTTON MARKETS (77%); CORN MARKETS (77%); WHEAT MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%) Agriculture; Editorials; Crop Controls and Subsidies; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%) World Trade Organization; European Union

PERSON: PETER MANDELSON (79%); ROB PORTMAN (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); JAPAN (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); FRANCE (92%); HONG KONG (79%) Japan; Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



286 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1847 words

HEADLINE: To Build Arena, Developer First Builds Bridges

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
In the two years since he announced his ambitious Atlantic Yards development in downtown Brooklyn, Bruce Ratner has lined up an impressive roster of supporters, including Gov. George E. Pataki, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the Rev. Al Sharpton, and even the rap artist Jay-Z.
 But it is Mr. Ratner's support from community figures -- including a prominent Brooklyn minister, the head of an advocacy group that has battled him in the past, and an organization run by members of the local community board -- that in many ways has fueled the project's slow but steady march forward.
Mr. Ratner has spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on publicity for Atlantic Yards, the sprawling Frank Gehry-designed office, retail and residential development with an arena for the Nets as its centerpiece. Top executives of Forest City Ratner, Mr. Ratner's company, held dozens of meetings with residents. 
 The project's supporters -- as well as Mr. Ratner's associates -- see these tactics as smart business. But opponents see the outreach as something more sinister: a campaign to divide opponents, co-opt those local figures who were interested but skeptical, and create the appearance of broad support where they say little exists.
 The developer's effort follows the death of the city's dream of a West Side football stadium amid overwhelming neighborhood hostility. 
 ''He's manufacturing community support, and in terms of political support, he's just relying on old relations,'' said Councilwoman Letitia James, one of several local politicians who oppose the project, and whose district includes its footprint. ''They are Goliath, and we are David.''
 Bruce Bender, Mr. Ratner's executive vice president, put it another way: ''What Bruce's philosophy is is reaching out and getting in and reaching out to the community before the community gets into you, so to speak.'' Forest City Ratner is also the development partner for the new Midtown headquarters of The New York Times Company. 
 But from whatever viewpoint, the project's seemingly inexorable movement suggests that Mr. Ratner is creating a new and finely detailed modern blueprint for how to nourish -- and then harvest -- public and community backing for a hugely ambitious development that is expected to provide more than nine million square feet of apartments, offices, stores and hotel rooms, as well as the arena, in the middle of a populous, cantankerous and often sharply divided city. Mr. Ratner scored a coup of sorts when he received the support of the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, or Acorn, the advocacy group that has fought previous Forest City projects, which this time struck a deal to include a significant amount of moderate- and low-cost housing in the project. He has also found an ally in the Rev. Herbert Daughtry, pastor of the House of the Lord Churches on Atlantic Avenue, who initially fought the plan. 
 Both were among eight groups that signed a community-benefits agreement with Forest City Ratner in June under which the builder will provide job training, housing and business opportunities to local residents.
 But it is Mr. Ratner's links to a different group, Brooklyn United for Innovative Local Development, or Build, that has drawn the most attention from critics, who say it didn't incorporate until after the plans were announced. The company has denied that it provided financial support to launch the group, but a spokesman said that as part of the community-benefits agreement, the company recently gave Build a $100,000 grant and covers its overhead costs.
 ''There's no doubt that the development community all over the country is very closely watching what happens in Brooklyn. The movement to build coalitions around development is going national,'' said John Goldstein, national program director for the Oakland, Calif.-based Partnership for Working Families, which helped negotiate a landmark community-benefits agreement around the Staples Center sports complex in Los Angeles. 
 Mr. Ratner's street-level and high-level public relations campaign began in the fall of 2003, when his company retained Dan Klores Communications, one of the city's top public relations firms. Their team, headed by Joe DePlasco, a veteran of the city's Democratic establishment, began lining up politicians and other supporters before the December news conference unveiling the initial design.
 Since then, the firm has run what amounted to an ambitious traveling road show, organizing presentations for community boards, business groups, block associations, and others, according to a schedule Mr. DePlasco offered. It also worked with the developer's allies to turn out local supporters at press conferences and at several contentious public hearings, and connected Build and other groups with media outlets that were in search of pro-arena voices.
 ''To the extent that there was a strategy, it wasn't 'Oh, let's go out there and pick off community groups.' It was, 'Let's go out there and talk to people and find out what the major issues are,''' Mr. DePlasco said.
 Forest City Ratner also contracted with Knickerbocker SKD, a media consultant, to produce two promotional mailings, each going to more than 300,000 households in Brooklyn. They oversaw publication of a newspaper-style brochure, dubbed The Brooklyn Standard. More recently, Forest City retained the Terrie Williams Agency, a prominent black-owned public relations firm, to represent those groups that signed the community-benefits agreement.
 Then there is Build.
 The group had its roots in an effort by Roger Green, a longtime Brooklyn assemblyman, and local labor organizers to tackle unemployment among residents in the area's public housing developments. It has since become the project's most enthusiastic local supporter; its president, James Caldwell, has said that Mr. Ratner was ''truly sent by God.''
 Some of the project's opponents, however, charge that Build is an enthusiastic supporter of Mr. Ratner because he pays it to be. 
 There is little doubt that the group, and Mr. Green, figured early in Mr. Ratner's efforts. The two met in Mr. Green's district office in October 2003 to discuss the project, and later dined at Junior's, on Flatbush Avenue, to discuss job-training programs and minority business participation. Later, Mr. Green would help shape the community-benefits agreement that Forest City Ratner would sign with pro-development groups.
 Mr. Green's support gave the project local roots; the three other elected officials whose districts include parts of the project -- Representative Major Owens, State Senator Velmanette Montgomery, and Councilwoman James -- adamantly opposed it. 
 Mr. Green also helped connect Mr. Ratner with others who became allies. Soon after Mr. Ratner purchased the Nets in January 2004, the developer hired Randall Toure, one of Mr. Green's top staff members, to run the firm's community outreach efforts.
 Around the same time, Build held a meeting in the firm's offices in MetroTech Center to discuss business opportunities for minority contractors and job-seekers, facilitated by two of Build's co-founders, Darnell Canada and Eric Blackwell, and attended by Mr. Toure among others. 
 Critics have pointed out that Build and Mr. Daughtry, in particular, decided to support the project even as they were in the middle of negotiating the community-benefits agreement. ''A lot of us feel that Roger's relationship with the developer was too close, and that he excluded a lot of people,'' said the Rev. Mark Taylor, a member of the Downtown Brooklyn Leadership Coalition. 
 ''That raises questions about whose interests those negotiations were in.'' 
 Mr. Daughtry founded the Downtown Brooklyn Leadership Coalition in 2004 but left soon after, in a dispute with other members over whether it would support the project. He later started a new clergy group, the Downtown Brooklyn Neighborhood Alliance, which supports Mr. Ratner. ''I thought we needed to move on this thing,'' Mr. Daughtry said. ''It became rather heated, and I decided at that point that I would resign.'' 
 According to Internal Revenue Service documents first reported by The Daily News, Build was not formally incorporated until Feb. 4, 2004, just a few days before the group held a press conference to announce that it was supporting the project. The same I.R.S. form also estimated that the group would receive $5 million over two years from Forest City Ratner as part of the community-benefits agreement then being negotiated. Build officials later said that that amount was never promised by or discussed with the developer. 
 Soon after the group decided to support Mr. Ratner, Mr. Canada, its original president, resigned, citing in a news release ''the need to distance myself from those in the organization who see this organization as financial self gain'' rather than ''for the needs of the Brooklyn community.'''' That has led some of Mr. Ratner's critics to question whether the group was too close to the developer to fairly represent the community. 
 ''Build and the other signatories of the so-called community-benefits agreement are Bruce Ratner's partners. They are contractually obliged to speak on behalf of his project,'' said Daniel Goldstein, a spokesman for the anti-arena group Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn. Mr. Caldwell, the group's current president, and Marie Louis, its treasurer, said late last month that Build was not yet receiving money from Forest City and that neither of them was yet drawing a salary.
 But on Tuesday, Mr. DePlasco and a new spokeswoman for Build, Cheryl Duncan, revised that account.
 In August, Mr. DePlasco said, two months after the agreement was signed, Forest City disbursed $100,000 to the group. The company also provided space for and is paying the overhead of a new Build office near the Atlantic Yards site, and along with other supporters donated furniture and computer equipment to the group. On Sept. 5, Ms. Duncan said, Build began paying several staff members, including Mr. Caldwell and Ms. Louis, who she said are currently being paid at a rate equal to half the salaries listed on the group's original I.R.S. form. Before the signing of the community-benefits agreement, the staff had been working as volunteers, she said.
 Mr. DePlasco emphasized that the money given to Build was intended to fulfill the company's obligations under the community-benefits agreement.
 ''No money was given to Build prior to the community-benefits agreement. What they're supposed to do is begin outreach and job training so that people are ready to apply for these jobs when they become available. If you are going to commit to programs that otherwise don't exist, you have to find the funding for those programs -- or at least a big chunk of that funding,'' he said. ''Forest City Ratner Company believes firmly that supporting nonprofits and community groups, and working with them to identify and address needs, is at the foundation of what they do. It's that simple.''

 Stephanie Keith for The New York Times)(pg. B8)

CORRECTION-DATE: April 27, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in The Arts on Tuesday about Frank Gehry's design for the first phase of the Grand Avenue development project in Los Angeles misstated the location of the proposed Atlantic Yards project that Mr. Gehry is designing in Brooklyn. (The error also appeared in sports articles on Feb. 9 and April 11, in the City section on Jan. 15 and in several articles in 2003, 2004 and 2005.) It is on rail yards and other land in Prospect Heights and on a block in Park Slope; it is not in Downtown Brooklyn, although it is near that neighborhood.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Councilwoman Letitia James of Brooklyn opposes a mixed-use complex in downtown Brooklyn. (Photo by 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); OFFICE DESIGN (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); SPORTS MARKETING (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); POLITICS (72%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); RAP MUSIC (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); BASKETBALL (62%) Area Planning and Renewal; Basketball; Stadiums and Arenas; Advertising and Marketing; Football; Public Opinion

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); NEW YORK JETS (59%) New Jersey Nets; New York Jets

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (63%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (78%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (72%); JAY-Z (58%); AL SHARPTON (57%) Nicholas Confessore; Bruce Ratner; Frank Gehry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Brooklyn (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



287 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Us In the Race

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
What if we were really having a national discussion about what is most important to the country today and on the minds of most parents?
 I have no doubt that it would be a loud, noisy dinner-table conversation about why so many U.S. manufacturers are moving abroad -- not just to find lower wages, but to find smarter workers, better infrastructure and cheaper health care. It would be about why in Germany, 36 percent of undergrads receive degrees in science and engineering; in China, 59 percent; in Japan, 66 percent; and in America, only 32 percent. It would be about why Japanese on bullet trains can get access to the Internet with cellphones, and Americans get their cellphone service interrupted five minutes from home. 
 It would be about why U.S. 12th graders recently performed below the international average for 21 countries in math and science, and it would be about why, in recent years, U.S. industry appears to have spent more on lawsuits than on R.&D. Yes, we'd be talking about why the world is racing us to the top, not the bottom, and why we are quietly falling behind. 
 And late in the evening, as the wine bottles emptied, someone at the national dinner table might finally say: ''Hey, what if we were really thinking ahead? What if we asked some of the country's best minds to make a list of the steps we could take right now to enhance America's technology base?''
 Fortunately, two senators, Lamar Alexander and Jeff Bingaman, asked the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering and the Institute of Medicine to form a bipartisan study group to produce just such a list, which was released on Wednesday in a report called ''Rising Above the Gathering Storm.''
 Because of globalization, the report begins, U.S. ''workers in virtually every sector must now face competitors who live just a mouse-click away in Ireland, Finland, India or dozens of other nations whose economies are growing. Having reviewed the trends in the United States and abroad, the committee is deeply concerned that the scientific and technical building blocks of our economic leadership are eroding at a time when many other nations are gathering strength. We are worried about the future prosperity of the United States. We fear the abruptness with which a lead in science and technology can be lost and the difficulty of recovering a lead once lost -- if indeed it can be regained at all.''
 The report's key recommendations? Nothing fancy. Charles Vest, the former president of M.I.T., summed them up: ''We need to get back to basic blocking and tackling'' -- educating more Americans in the skills needed for 21st-century jobs.
 Among the top priorities, the report says, should be these:
 (1)Annually recruiting 10,000 science and math teachers by awarding four-year merit-based scholarships, to be paid back through five years of K-12 public school teaching. (We have too many unqualified science and math teachers.)
 (2)Strengthening the math and science skills of 250,000 other teachers through extracurricular programs.
 (3)Creating opportunities and incentives for many more middle school and high school students to take advanced math and science courses, by offering, among other things, $100 mini-scholarships for success in exams, and creating more specialty math-and-science schools.
 (4)Increasing federal investment in long-term basic research by 10 percent a year over the next seven years.
 (5)Annually providing research grants of $500,000 each, payable over five years, to 200 of America's most outstanding young researchers.
 (6)Creating a new Advanced Research Projects Agency in the Energy Department to support ''creative out-of-the-box transformational energy research that industry by itself cannot or will not support and in which risk may be high, but success would provide dramatic benefits for the nation.''
 (7)Granting automatic one-year visa extensions to foreign students in the U.S. who receive doctorates in science, engineering or math so they can seek employment here, and creating 5,000 National Science Foundation-administered graduate fellowships to increase the number of U.S. citizens earning doctoral degrees in fields of ''national need.'' (See the rest at www.nationalacademies.org.)
 These proposals are the new New Deal urgently called for by our times. This is where President Bush should have focused his second term, instead of squandering it on a silly, ideological jag called Social Security privatization. Because, as this report concludes, ''Without a renewed effort to bolster the foundations of our competitiveness, we can expect to lose our privileged position.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); TRENDS (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (75%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); MATHEMATICS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%) Education and Schools; Science and Technology; Mathematics; Teachers and School Employees; Scholarships and Fellowships; Hiring and Promotion; Education and Schools

PERSON: LAMAR ALEXANDER (77%); JEFF BINGAMAN (67%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) Thomas L Friedman; Lamar (Sen) Alexander; Jeff (Sen) Bingaman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



288 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Questions of Character

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
George W. Bush, I once wrote, ''values loyalty above expertise'' and may have ''a preference for advisers whose personal fortunes are almost entirely bound up with his own.'' And he likes to surround himself with ''obsequious courtiers.''
 Lots of people are saying things like that these days. But those quotes are from a column published on Nov. 19, 2000. 
I don't believe that I'm any better than the average person at judging other people's character. I got it right because I said those things in the context of a discussion of Mr. Bush's choice of economic advisers, a subject in which I do have some expertise. 
 But many people in the news media do claim, at least implicitly, to be experts at discerning character -- and their judgments play a large, sometimes decisive role in our political life. The 2000 election would have ended in a chad-proof victory for Al Gore if many reporters hadn't taken a dislike to Mr. Gore, while portraying Mr. Bush as an honest, likable guy. The 2004 election was largely decided by the image of Mr. Bush as a strong, effective leader.
 So it's important to ask why those judgments are often so wrong.
 Right now, with the Bush administration in meltdown on multiple issues, we're hearing a lot about President Bush's personal failings. But what happened to the commanding figure of yore, the heroic leader in the war on terror? The answer, of course, is that the commanding figure never existed: Mr. Bush is the same man he always was. All the character flaws that are now fodder for late-night humor were fully visible, for those willing to see them, during the 2000 campaign.
 And President Bush the great leader is far from the only fictional character, bearing no resemblance to the real man, created by media images.
 Read the speeches Howard Dean gave before the Iraq war, and compare them with Colin Powell's pro-war presentation to the U.N. Knowing what we know now, it's clear that one man was judicious and realistic, while the other was spinning crazy conspiracy theories. But somehow their labels got switched in the way they were presented to the public by the news media.
 Why does this happen? A large part of the answer is that the news business places great weight on ''up close and personal'' interviews with important people, largely because they're hard to get but also because they play well with the public. But such interviews are rarely revealing. The fact is that most people -- myself included -- are pretty bad at using personal impressions to judge character. Psychologists find, for example, that most people do little better than chance in distinguishing liars from truth-tellers.
 More broadly, the big problem with political reporting based on character portraits is that there are no rules, no way for a reporter to be proved wrong. If a reporter tells you about the steely resolve of a politician who turns out to be ineffectual and unwilling to make hard choices, you've been misled, but not in a way that requires a formal correction.
 And that makes it all too easy for coverage to be shaped by what reporters feel they can safely say, rather than what they actually think or know. Now that Mr. Bush's approval ratings are in the 30's, we're hearing about his coldness and bad temper, about how aides are afraid to tell him bad news. Does anyone think that journalists have only just discovered these personal characteristics? 
 Let's be frank: the Bush administration has made brilliant use of journalistic careerism. Those who wrote puff pieces about Mr. Bush and those around him have been rewarded with career-boosting access. Those who raised questions about his character found themselves under personal attack from the administration's proxies. (Yes, I'm speaking in part from experience.) Only now, with Mr. Bush in desperate trouble, has the structure of rewards shifted.
 So what's the answer? Journalists who are better at judging character? Unfortunately, that's not a practical plan. After all, who judges their judgment?
 What we really need is political journalism based less on perceptions of personalities and more on actual facts. Schadenfreude aside, we should not be happy that stories about Mr. Bush's boldness have given way to stories analyzing his facial tics. Think, instead, about how different the world would be today if, during the 2000 campaign, reporting had focused on the candidates' fiscal policies instead of their wardrobes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); IRAQ WAR (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); TERRORISM (64%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%) United States Politics and Government; News and News Media; Presidential Election of 2000; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Politics and Government

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (87%); PAUL KRUGMAN (54%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005



289 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Proof, Near and Far, That It's Not 1950 Anymore 

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
MANUFACTURING jobs are down again in the United States, and fewer people are working in that sector than at any time since 1950. Manufacturing employment peaked in 1979; since then, the figure is down by more than a quarter.
 It may be that holding on to those jobs in recent years has merely delayed the pain for some developed countries, leaving them more vulnerable to the tougher competition that has emerged from Asia, particularly China. 
Since 1993, the United States has lost more than 15 percent of its manufacturing jobs. That is a better showing than Britain, which lost nearly 20 percent but has nonetheless had a far stronger economy than its European rivals. 
 Of the major European economies, the one that has done the best in holding on to manufacturing jobs is Italy, whose job count at last report was higher than it was in 1993, although it is down from the peak reached late last year. Italy's success at keeping such jobs, many in small textile companies, will leave it in a weak position as China increases textile exports.
 France, which has also done a better job than the United States at holding on to manufacturing jobs, also now has a more sluggish economy. Germany's decline has been bigger than the United States', but it remains an export powerhouse. Much of its loss came in the former East Germany, but now big German companies like Volkswagen and Daimler-Chrysler are being forced to cut back.
 In the United States, total jobs in the civilian, nonagricultural economy are 21 percent higher than they were in 1993. While blue-collar jobs over all may be down because of the decline of manufacturing, a boom in construction jobs has helped to temper the losses. Construction used to be a very cyclical industry, but total employment suffered only a little in the 2001 recession, and then came on strong with the recovery that followed.
 Of late, the boom in commodities has driven up employment in natural resource industries, such as oil, but total employment there is still lower than it was a decade ago.
 When it became clear in the 1980's that the growth in the United States economy was in services, there was talk that the country was on its way to becoming a nation of hamburger flippers. But professional and business services, a diverse group, is up 48 percent since 1993, more than either health care or education services.
 Within that professional services area, the trends are a little surprising. It may be fashionable to call the United States a nation of lawyers, but legal services employment is up 19 percent, a little less than the economy as a whole. Accounting and bookkeeping services are up 33 percent, but that move is not a result of Sarbanes-Oxley, given that employment in that area is lower than it was in 2001, before the law was passed.
 A piece of advice that may no longer be good is that given to Dustin Hoffman in the 1967 film ''The Graduate,'' in which he was told just one word was the key to success: plastics. Since 1993, employment in the rubber and plastics industry is down 5 percent, to 803,200 people. That is fewer than the number of people offering advice. There are now 817,000 people in technical and management consulting, 112 percent more than in 1993.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Manufacturing In Decline''Manufacturing employment in the United States declined again in September and is at its lowest level since 1950. But its 15 percent decline since 1993 is far from the largest among developed countries.Graph shows change in manufacturing employment from the average in 1993Graph shows the winners and losers in the United States Change in employment from the average in 1993 for:TOTAL EMPLOYMENTCONSTRUCTIONPROFESSIONAL SERVICESHEALTH CAREGOVERNMENTNATURAL RESOURCESMANUFACTURINGFigures are through second quarter in Italy, Germany and France, and through July in Britain and September in the United States. United States education employment includes public school employees. Government employment in the United States includes local, state and federal governments, but excludes military, education and Postal Service employees. The United States total excludes military personnel and farm workers.(Source by Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); TRENDS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TEXTILE MFG (79%); FABRIC MILLS (79%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); RECESSION (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (72%); TEXTILES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); BOOKKEEPING & PAYROLL SERVICES (60%); LEGISLATION (50%) Labor; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Hiring and Promotion; Labor

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ASIA (92%); ITALY (91%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%) Great Britain; Italy; France; Germany

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



290 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Jumped 1.2% in September to a 25-Year High

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Inflation rose to its highest monthly rate in more than 25 years in September, the government reported yesterday, but excluding a surge in energy costs, prices were restrained through most of the economy.
 The consumer price index, which has been rising steadily through much of the year, jumped 1.2 percent last month, the fastest monthly pace since March 1980, the Labor Department reported. Still, the core inflation rate, which excludes volatile energy and food prices, rose just 0.1 percent, a rate that has stayed steady for the last four months.
The inflation figures, the first reflecting the impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, were perhaps the most closely followed of the economic data released yesterday. Other reports showed that retail sales rose at a moderate pace after sliding in August, consumer confidence dropped for the third consecutive month, and industrial production declined as the two hurricanes and a strike at Boeing idled assembly lines, oil rigs, chemical plants and refineries. 
 The Commerce Department reported that retail sales increased by 0.2 percent in September, slower than the 0.5 percent gain economists had expected. Excluding cars, retail sales rose 1.1 percent. 
 In August, retail sales fell 2.1 percent as Detroit's big three automakers wound down big discounts. 
 Last month's data were also skewed by a sharp increase in the dollar value of gasoline purchases (up 4 percent from August) as prices at the pump soared past $3 a gallon. Excluding both cars and gasoline, retail sales rose 0.6 percent.
 But Americans are not very optimistic. The University of Michigan survey of consumer confidence fell to 75.4 this month, its lowest reading in 15 years, with respondents expressing pessimism about both current and future economic conditions.
 Energy costs jumped 12 percent last month and the prospect of sharply higher heating bills are a huge concern for many Americans, economists said. Nationally, the average retail price for a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline was $2.816 yesterday, up from $1.989 a year ago, according to AAA, the auto club. The government estimates heating bills will rise by 30 percent to 48 percent this winter.
 ''We are going to have a winter of discontent,'' said Richard Yamarone, director of economic research at Argus Research, noting that consumer spending in the coming holiday season will be depressed as a result.
 The average weekly earnings of about 80 percent of the nation's labor force -- people in manufacturing or nonsupervisory jobs -- fell 1.2 percent from August to September when adjusted for inflation, according to the Labor Department. The real wages of these Americans have fallen in all but 4 of the last 12 months.
 The Social Security Administration said yesterday it would raise income benefits for 52 million Americans by 4.1 percent beginning in January to account for inflation.
 The consumer price index was up 4.7 percent from September 2004; excluding food and energy, it was up 2 percent.
 At the nation's industrial facilities, production fell 1.3 percent last month, the Federal Reserve reported, mostly because the hurricanes disrupted production and critical raw material supplies. Production in mining, which includes oil and natural gas production, for instance, fell 9.1 percent. The Fed estimates that the hurricanes reduced production by 1.7 percentage points.
 These and other blows to the economy from the hurricane appear temporary and limited. On consumer prices, for instance, economists note inflation remains incredibly tame, aside from energy.
 Transportation seems to be the only industry that has passed on higher energy costs to customers; prices in the sector rose by 5.4 percent last month, after a 2.4 percent jump in August.
 In other sectors, prices have been kept in check by cheap imports from places like China and India, said Stephen Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley. ''Energy is being driven by a unique set of forces -- supply and demand -- that are not bearing down on other goods and services,'' he said.
 The Federal Reserve is also determined not to let higher energy prices drive prices of other goods and services higher by raising the short-term interest rate, now at 3.75 percent. The Fed is expected to raise the rate again on Nov. 1 and Dec. 13.
 In addition to lowering demand and making loans more expensive, a rising interest rate serves a psychological purpose, Mr. Roach said. Inflation feeds on fear: if consumers believe prices are going to be higher next week, they will buy more this week, which will assure that prices will indeed be higher. That is a lesson the Fed learned during the 1970's energy crisis when annual inflation rates soared past 10 percent.
 ''By staying disciplined with regard to inflationary policy, the Fed nips any inflationary expectations in the bud,'' Mr. Roach said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Retail Sales''Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted.Sept.: +0.2%Aug.: -1.9July: +1.7(Source by Commerce Department)Chart: ''Industrial Production''Index of total industrial production, 1997 = 100, seasonally adjusted.Sept.: -1.3%Aug.: +0.2July: Unch.(Source by Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); INFLATION (91%); RETAIL SALES (91%); HURRICANES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (86%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); HEATING OIL (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); RETAILERS (77%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); WEATHER (75%); FOOD PRICES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (70%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (67%) United States Economy; Consumer Price Index; Retail Stores and Trade; Consumer Behavior; Production; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; United States Economy; Factories and Industrial Plants; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Automobiles; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Heating Oil; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Social Security (US)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%) Labor Department (US); Commerce Department; University of Michigan; Social Security Administration; Federal Reserve System

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



291 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Will Higher Heating Bills Justify a New Furnace?

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
With home energy bills expected to rise almost 50 percent this winter, the frugal American may face a tough call: the most effective way to cut that expense may be to spend thousands of dollars to replace an inefficient furnace.
 That one device uses nearly half of the energy piped into your home. Sure, you can save money by tackling the less expensive projects like turning down thermostats, caulking windows and adding insulation. But cost-effective as that is, it has its limits. Most new homes are built to be snug. In older homes, many owners began plugging drafts when President Jimmy Carter donned a cardigan and exhorted Americans to save energy.
 ''We got much of the low-hanging fruit,'' said Daphne Magnuson, a spokeswoman for the American Gas Association, a trade group representing natural gas utilities. ''The big jumps in efficiency have been made.'' The American home uses 22 percent less gas than the home of 20 years ago, she said. 
 That leaves you staring at the furnace, which stands between you and several hundred dollars of additional disposable income. 
 Furnace makers like Carrier or Trane will tell you that you can save as much as 35 percent of your heating bill with a new one. But replacing your old one could cost $2,000 to more than $7,000 depending on its size, type and energy efficiency, as well as local labor rates and the amount of ducting and retrofitting that must be done. 
 There is no pat answer for this question because there are so many variables, especially energy prices. If this is merely a spike and prices fall next year, replacing a furnace now could be folly. If they stay high or go even higher, a new furnace could be one of the best investments you will ever make.
 ''Higher prices make the payback even shorter,'' said Robert Help, director for controls development at Trane, a unit of American Standard. 
 The problem is that no one can predict the short-term price of natural gas or heating oil, let alone its price in five years.
 The federal Energy Information Administration estimated this week that with normal weather, households heating with oil could expect to pay, on average, $325 more this winter, an increase of about 30 percent. Those heating with natural gas could pay 48 percent, or $350, more. But if the winter is colder, oil costs could go up 58 percent, to an average annual bill of $1,893, and natural gas could rise 68 percent, to an average bill of $1,242. 
 ''It isn't where natural gas prices will be this winter or even next winter, but where the prices will be over the lifetime of the project,'' said Jerry Taylor, a senior fellow at the Cato Institute who writes on energy policy issues. He is also trying to decide whether to replace his furnace.
 You could stop right here and hope fuel prices drop. But if you are the more pessimistic type or you have what furnace installers call a quitter or a geezer heating your home, it might be worth running some calculations to see if you would benefit. 
 Yes, you are going to have to do some math. Even Mr. Taylor, comfortable as he is with economics, admits he has been procrastinating because he fears it may take some time to figure out. 
 But it is worth doing because the methods used will be applicable when you consider other products that may save you money, like new air-conditioning, a tankless water heater, solar panels on the roof or the gas-sipping Toyota Prius. 

THE EASY STUFF. Pull out your utility bills to determine how much you spent on heating your home. That is simple with oil because it is used only for heating. With natural gas, take the bills from last winter and subtract what you normally spend in a month like September or May, when you are not running the furnace.
 The chart with this article will show you how to calculate your annual savings. (You can find that chart and Web links online at www.nytimes.com/yourmoney.) The table determines the difference in operating costs between old models and new, fuel-efficient ones. A new furnace can save money because it does not waste as much fuel.
 The federal government began requiring in 1992 that furnaces have an annual fuel utilization efficiency, or A.F.U.E., rating of at least 78. (The minimum rating for boilers that heat water for radiators is 80). With electronic ignitions instead of pilot lights and quiet variable speed motors, some heaters have ratings as high as 95 percent.
 Like the mileage ratings for cars, the accuracy of these ratings is sometimes questioned. But they nevertheless provide a useful tool for comparisons. 
 You will find, for example, that your new furnace does not need to be as powerful as your old one, because of its greater efficiency. Installing a furnace that is bigger than necessary is a common and costly mistake. ''Most of the time you only need 30 percent to 40 percent of the power,'' said Johnny Johnson, Carrier brand manager.

A FEW CALCULATIONS -- Any good furnace dealer -- and obtain estimates from several before signing a contract -- will help you through these calculations. You may discover, for instance, that you will save as much as $500 a year. If the installation costs $2,000, that means you will recoup your investment in four years.
 If you plan to sell your house long before that, you may want to skip this project. Many real estate agents and the furnace dealers themselves say a new furnace does not add much to the resale value of a home. Still, ''it might make a house more saleable,'' said Matt Hair, operations manager with R&R Heating and Air Conditioning in Spokane, Wash.
 If you plan to keep the house, however, you should look at the expenditure in other ways as well. The American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, a Washington advocacy group, suggests consumers use a measure of return on investment. Dividing the annual savings by the cost of the project gives a yield, not unlike a real investment. Using the same numbers as in the example above, you would have an impressive return of 25 percent. 
 It is enough to make you want to start spending to make money. So here is another way to look at it. Consider doing something accountants call ''discounting to present value.'' (It is complicated, so there is a calculator for this at nytimes.com). 
 Figures provided by the federally financed Weatherization Assistance Program Technical Assistance Center suggest that if you can achieve fuel savings of $500 a year over the life of the furnace, an installation cost of up to $5,800 would be cost-effective. Were the annual savings only $250, you might want to draw the line at any project costing more than $3,000.

ALTERNATIVE PROJECTS -- Of course, if the numbers are not convincing or if your furnace is fine, there are other things to do.
 Installing new windows usually makes little economic sense. But if you are considering replacing windows for aesthetic reasons, the high cost of fuel will get you a payoff sooner.
 Some people consider replacing a refrigerator, which typically is responsible for about 6 percent of a home's energy bill. But finding an energy-efficient clothes washer that uses less water might be even smarter because you get to save twice -- on the washer's power and on the power used to heat the water.
 An old water heater, which accounts for 11 percent of the home energy bill, frequently gets singled out as another money-waster. (If you have not already insulated the tank and the pipes leading from the tank, do so this weekend.) Some people are considering tankless water heaters that heat the water only as you need it. They cost about $1,000 and are said to use about 30 percent less energy. New technology heats enough water to run three showers at once. 
 Butan extensive retrofitting of a home's electrical system may be needed for an electric model, or gas pipes and venting for a natural gas model. 
 Thermostats that can be programmed to lower the temperature when no one is home can cost less than $100. Mr. Help of Trane said that for every degree you reduce the temperature in your house, you can save 3 percent on heating costs. 
 As you cost out these projects, do not forget to check the rebates your local utility will offer for these improvements. In addition, the federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 offers tax incentives for homeowners who install new furnaces and water heaters in 2006 and 2007. (See nytimescom for links to more detailed information.) 
 Finally, if you end up writing checks for all this new equipment, take some solace from knowing you are playing a small but important part in lowering fuel prices. Less demand will cause the wholesale price to drop. 
 Now if only you could get someone else to replace his furnace so you don't have to.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A 1991 heating-cooling system is replaced at a home in Spokane, Wash. (Photo by Jeff T. Green for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Don Honn of R&R Heating and Air Conditioning installed new ductwork Thursday for a gas furnace in Spokane, Wash., that replaced an older model, vintage 1991. (Photo by Jeff T. Green for The New York Times)(pg. C7)Chart: ''Weighing Potential Savings From a New Furnace''INFORMATION YOU NEEDANNUAL HEATING COST -- Total winter heating bills, subtracting nonheating energy use, using a bill from May or September as a base.EFFICIENCY RATING OF CURRENT FURNACE -- Furnaces bought after 1992 should have an annual fuel utilization efficiency (A.F.U.E.) rating. Assume anything older than 15 years is around 65 percent.NEW FURNACE AND INSTALLATION COST -- Get several estimates for the total cost of installation. Local labor costs, house size and insulation, and extent of new ductwork needed will factor into total cost.Graph shows the SAVINGS TABLE, comparing EXISTING FURNACE and NEW FURNACE EFFICIENCY RATING (A.F.U.E.) percentages.Estimated savings for every $100 currently spent. With fuel costs rising, savings will be greater. Assumes new furnace has the same heat output.ESTIMATE TOTAL SAVINGSYOUR ANNUAL SAVINGS -- If your old furnace is A.F.U.E.-rated at 65 percent, your savings per $100 dollars would be $31.57 if you installed a furnace with a 95 percent rating. If your annual fuel bill is $1,500, your annual savings would be 31.57 times 15 or $473.55.TIME UNTIL PAYOFF -- Divide the investment -- say, $4,000 -- by your annual savings. In this case, it would take more than eight years to break even.RETURN ON INVESTMENT -- Divide the annual savings by the cost of the installation and multiply that by 100. If the new furnace will cost $4,000, your first year return on investment would be 11.8 percent.(Sources by Department of Energy, American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); HEATING OIL (76%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); THERMAL SENSORS (72%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (52%) Heating; Heating Fuel; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Furnaces

COMPANY: TRANE INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN GAS ASSOCIATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336340 MOTOR VEHICLE BRAKE SYSTEM MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS332913 PLUMBING FIXTURE FITTING & TRIM MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (54%) Damon Darlin

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (74%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



292 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Surprise Choice Will Manage Harvard's Billions

BYLINE: By RIVA D. ATLAS; Stephanie Strom contributed reporting for this article

 BODY:
After months of searching for a new overseer of its $26 billion in assets, Harvard University yesterday named a manager from the bond powerhouse Pimco to the job. 
 The new investment chief, Mohamed A. El-Erian, an emerging markets bond specialist, is a surprising choice to fill what is one of the most prestigious investment management jobs in America. Mr. El-Erian, 47, is not well known on Wall Street outside the small world of bond specialists. Nor is he a Harvard alumnus. 
Harvard officials said the university chose him because his broad views on global economies would be useful in managing a portfolio that has made investments from timber to hedge funds.
 He will be stepping into some rather large shoes. The former investment manager, Jack R. Meyer, helped increase Harvard's assets from $4.7 billion in 1990 to $26 billion today, recording annual returns of 15.9 percent on average. 
 But the compensation paid to Mr. Meyer and his team of money managers came under criticism from alumni who questioned how the university could justify increasing tuition when it pays its money managers so much more than other universities do.
 Mr. Meyer was paid $7.2 million last year, and his two star money managers, David Mittelman and Maurice Samuels, made more than $25 million each. (In comparison, the manager of Yale's $12.7 billion endowment was paid $1.03 million in compensation and benefits for the year ended June 2003.)
 Despite the previous outcry from alumni, Harvard has promised Mr. El-Erian ''a similar compensation package'' to what Mr. Meyer received, Harvard's treasurer, James F. Rothenberg, said yesterday. A fair amount of Mr. El-Erian's pay will be pegged to the overall performance of the Harvard portfolio, Mr. Rothenberg said, but he declined to be more specific.
 While Mr. El-Erian has never managed a stock portfolio, his experience with emerging markets debt means ''he has had a lot of experience with risky assets,'' Mr. Rothenberg said.
 Louis R. Morrell, the chief investment officer at Wake Forest University, which has invested in Pimco, including Mr. El-Erian's fund, praised his ability. ''He's extremely competent as portfolio manager, a very talented guy,'' he said.
 Yet Mr. Morrell said he was somewhat surprised by the choice, noting that managing a university endowment is different from managing a portfolio at a money management company. 
 ''You are taking someone with a strong investment background and skills, and he's going into an environment where a lot of the job is going to be dealing with politics and management,'' he said. ''There's a lot of politics involved in dealing with the investment committee and dealing with the alumni and dealing with the faculty.''
 Harvard's president, Lawrence H. Summers, has long had a goal of more closely tying the Harvard Management Company, the separate nonprofit entity that manages the university's money, to the university, and Mr. El-Erian's job will span both institutions. 
 Mr. El-Erian, who is trained as an economist, will also serve on the faculty of the Harvard Business School, and as deputy treasurer of the university. He will become president and chief executive of Harvard Management Company, the nonprofit that handles the university's funds.
 ''Among Mohamed's many attributes are his intelligence, global perspective and commitment to excellence,'' Mr. Summers said in a statement. Mr. El-Erian's appointment was reported yesterday by The Boston Globe. 
 The search began after Mr. Meyer announced in January that he was stepping down to start his own investment firm. Mr. Meyer departed at the end of September, and will continue to manage up to $500 million of Harvard's money. 
 Several prominent investment managers who were informally approached to gauge their interest in the Harvard position were cool to the idea, noting the criticism of the compensation.
 As returns on stocks and other investments have sunk to the low single digits, it will be hard for anyone to approach Mr. Meyer's long-term track record, investment managers said.
 In fiscal 2005, the Harvard endowment had a return of 19.2 percent, net of fees and expenses. That topped the median return of 15.8 percent among the top 25 university endowments, but lagged Yale, which reported that its endowment had a 22.3 percent return for the year.
 ''This is a huge opportunity that comes with a lot of responsibility,'' Mr. El-Erian said in an interview.
 ''There are a number of investment opportunities Harvard can exploit because of its unique structure,'' he said. ''Harvard can be paid for being patient in a world that is increasingly less so.''
 The son of an Egyptian ambassador to France, Mr. El-Erian was born in New York but was educated in England, receiving a bachelor's degree from Cambridge University and a master's degree and doctorate in economics from Oxford. 
 He spent 15 years at the International Monetary Fund, where he started in 1983 as an economist. His roles included serving as deputy director of the Middle Eastern Department and adviser to the fund's first deputy managing director, Stanley Fisher. 
 Mr. El-Erian joined Pimco in May 1999, and heads a team that manages more than $28 billion in emerging market bond funds. He also serves on Pimco's investment committee. Mr. El-Erian previously served as head of emerging markets economic research for Salomon Smith Barney.
 In his years at Pimco, Mr. El-Erian took ''calculated risks'' that paid off big, said Arijit Dutta, an analyst at Morningstar, the fund research firm.
 Before Argentina defaulted on its debt in 2001, Mr. El-Erian sold Pimco's holdings in the country, even though that country accounted for more than 20 percent of a widely followed index of emerging market debt at the time. Pimco's Emerging Markets Bond fund, which Mr. El-Erian manages, returned 27.6 percent that year, compared with 11 percent for comparable funds, according to Morningstar. The fund has had an annualized return of 18.39 percent over the last five years, 2.97 points ahead of its competitors.
 Some Harvard alumni yesterday said that, given the challenges of the Harvard Management job, they were inclined to give Mr. El-Erian the benefit of the doubt. 
 ''I am delighted he has enough courage to take the challenge,'' said C. Dixon Spangler Jr., a former member of Harvard's board of overseers and onetime president of the University of North Carolina.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohamed A. El-Erian was chosen because of his broad views on global economies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (69%) Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) Harvard University ; Harvard Management Co; Harvard University 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%) Mohamed El-Erian; Jack R Meyer; Riva D Atlas

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



293 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS, WEEKLY CLOSE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rally on Mild Inflation Data and Better Retail Sales 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street ended the week with a broad advance yesterday after reports of mild inflation data, improving retail sales and strong quarterly earnings at General Electric. Nonetheless, the major indexes finished lower for the week. 
 Stocks rose after the Labor Department said its core consumer price index grew just 0.1 percent in September, a sign that higher prices have been limited to the energy sector. Factoring in energy and food, which are excluded from core inflation, the price index rose 1.2 percent. 
 Investors also welcomed a turnaround in September retail sales that showed that consumers were still spending, despite fears of a slumping economy. The market slipped momentarily after the University of Michigan said its consumer sentiment index declined for the fourth consecutive month. 
 Michael Strauss, chief economist at Commonfund, said that the impact of soaring oil prices would soon work its way into prices elsewhere. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 70.75, or 0.7 percent, to close at 10,287.34. Broader stock indicators also finished higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 9.73, or 0.8 percent, to 1,186.57, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 17.61, or 0.9 percent, to 2,064.83. 
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note climbed to 4.48 percent yesterday from 4.46 percent on Thursday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the note's yield, slipped 4/32, to 98 6/32. The dollar was mixed against most major currencies, while gold inched upward. 
 Friday's gains helped cushion another uneasy week on Wall Street as a spate of profit warnings renewed concern that rising oil prices would hurt corporate earnings. 
 While some of those fears came undone on solid results from G.E. and the aluminum producer Alcoa, investors were reserved ahead of next week, when third-quarter earnings reports will start to cascade in. 
 For the week, the Dow lost 0.05 percent, the S.&P. 500 slid 0.8 percent and the Nasdaq fell 1.2 percent. 
 ''I think this market now is basically trying to stabilize,'' said Peter Cardillo, senior vice president and market analyst at S.W. Bach & Company. ''The market will probably begin to focus on economic activity rebounding in the first quarter.'' 
 The Commerce Department said yesterday that retail sales grew 0.2 percent in September after declining 1.9 percent the month before. But setting aside auto sales, which slumped after incentives bolstered summertime demand, retail sales rose 1.1 percent, compared with economists' prediction of 0.8 percent. 
 However, Friday's mostly positive economic data were muddled by a weaker reading of consumer confidence. Michigan's consumer sentiment index for October fell to 75.4 from 76.9, below economists' target of 80, as consumers braced for more impact from the recent storms. 
 Crude oil dipped amid indications of weak gasoline demand and reports that more Gulf Coast refineries were returning to action. A barrel of light crude slid 45 cents to $62.63 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 G.E. said its quarterly profit grew 15 percent despite losses from the hurricanes. G.E. shares rose 32 cents, to $34.34 a share. 
 The UnitedHealth Group, one of the nation's biggest health insurers, posted a 21 percent increase in quarterly earnings and topped Wall Street estimates by a penny. UnitedHealth added $2.23, to $56.43. 
 The Boston Scientific Corporation fell 44 cents, to $23.86, after reporting a $269 million third-quarter loss caused largely by a $600 million legal settlement.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INFLATION (94%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); BONDS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); PROFIT WARNINGS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (62%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); ALCOA INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); AAI (ASX) (53%); AA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



294 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: The Hammer Of Bankruptcy At Delphi

BYLINE: By JOSEPH NOCERA

 BODY:
''WHAT do you think when you see so many companies using bankruptcy as a tool to get their labor costs ''
 Francisco A. Lorenzo -- yes, Frank Lorenzo -- cut me off in midquestion.
 ''Tool?'' he practically shouted into the phone. ''When you use that word, you are spinning things, and very unfairly. That's the word the unions always used.'' 
''Bankruptcy is not a tool,'' he continued. ''It is a last resort. You have companies that have run out of options in dealing with enormous costs that have made them uncompetitive. Nobody wants to go into bankruptcy. It's the last straw. It's the end of the line. The only thing it's better than is liquidation.''
 It seems safe to say that 23 years after Mr. Lorenzo first showed the way -- after he took his cash-strapped airline, Continental, into bankruptcy, ripped up its labor contracts, laid off thousands of workers, hired replacements for its striking pilots and flight attendants, paid them half the old union salaries while insisting they work longer hours, and became in the process the most reviled captain of industry since Jay Gould -- even after all this time, Mr. Lorenzo is still a wee bit sensitive on the subject of using bankruptcy to get costs under control.
 Nobody else seems to be, though. That was one of the most striking things about the aftermath of last weekend's bankruptcy filing by Delphi, the huge auto parts company that was spun out of General Motors six years ago. The company's new chairman and chief executive, Robert S. Miller, who specializes in restructuring troubled companies, is a very different corporate animal from Mr. Lorenzo; as he made the rounds of the business media in the days after the bankruptcy, he practically oozed empathy for the United Automobile Workers, whose members make the parts that Delphi sells. 
 ''My job here is easy compared to Ron Gettelfinger's,'' Mr. Miller said, referring to the head of the U.A.W. ''Ron has the job of helping half a million members adapt to a difficult new reality brought on by the forces of globalization.''
 But Mr. Miller's message, at bottom, is not all that different from the one Mr. Lorenzo once delivered: Delphi needs a more competitive cost structure, and bankruptcy is the only way to get there. The company, which lost $2.4 billion last year, simply can't sustain any longer a labor force that gets $65 an hour in overall compensation, and allows workers to retire with full pension and benefits after 30 years, even if they're only in their late 40's. Delphi's competitors, indeed, Delphi's own workers outside the United States, make far less than that.
 ALTHOUGH Mr. Miller cannot unilaterally abrogate labor contracts the way Mr. Lorenzo could -- Congress passed a law after the Continental bankruptcy that forces management to negotiate ''in good faith'' with its unions -- Chapter 11 does make it possible for him put enormous pressure on the U.A.W. And this he has already begun to do, presenting the union with a Hobbesian choice. 
 If it wants to hold onto its rich pension plan, Mr. Miller says, it will have to agree to new, lower wages that will amount to a two-thirds cut in pay. If it refuses to negotiate wages downward, he will seek permission to terminate the Delphi pension plan, just as United Airlines and others have done in bankruptcy. It's one or the other. ''If you want to work for 30 years and be retired for 30 years,'' he said when I spoke to him, ''there is just not enough money any more to support that.'' 
 And how did the country, which had been so outraged by Mr. Lorenzo's tactics once upon a time, react to Mr. Miller's words? Mostly, America gave a resigned shrug. It seems to be accepting these wrenching labor ''retrenchments'' as the cost of globalization, even as they are also making it possible for us to reap the benefit of lower prices on everything from airline seats to Chinese-made costume jewelry.
 Besides, after the shriveling of the steel industry and the troubles in the airline industry, was it ever realistic that the domestic auto industry and its workers could avoid similar pain, especially given their difficulties competing against the likes of Toyota and Honda? This moment was inevitable.
 ''For years, there was almost a kind of collusion between the auto industry and the U.A.W.,'' said Gary Chaison, a professor of labor relations at Clark University. ''The auto industry said, 'We'll give you high pay and benefits, and in return don't give us any problems or work stoppages. And we will pass that cost on to the consumer.''' Indeed, as globalization began to take its toll on the Big Three car manufacturers -- and it could no longer easily pass on the costs to consumers -- the industry took to, in effect, paying off workers so it could close down money-losing plants without union opposition. 
 The U.A.W., Mr. Chaison pointed out, was one of the great, innovative organizations in American history. ''Cost of living allowances, guaranteed annual wages and supplemental unemployment benefits were first introduced by the United Auto Workers,'' he said. But, he added, like all of the big industrial unions, the U.A.W. has never figured out how to deal with globalization. ''What they do is, they have a conference, or present papers, or talk about cooperation between unions and social movements in other countries. They don't know how to take wages and working conditions out of the realm of competition. And they don't know how to deal with something that is beyond the jurisdiction of their own membership.'' 
 When I spoke to Mr. Gettelfinger on Thursday afternoon, I got a little feel for what Mr. Chaison was talking about. ''We have said all along that we have to do something about these free trade agreements,'' he said. Delphi, he added, was a classic example of the problem with globalization, especially since Delphi workers overseas were paid so much less than Delphi workers in the United States. ''It is a classic play-off of worker against worker, and it is a race to the bottom in terms of wages and benefits.'' When I pointed out that it was highly unlikely that the government was going to turn away from free trade agreements, he sadly agreed. ''It's as if they are trying to do away with the middle class,'' he said.
 He also went on a long tangent about an Electrolux refrigerator plant in the small town of Greenville, Mich., which employs some 2,500 U.A.W. workers. ''They are closing it down and moving it to Mexico,'' Mr. Gettelfinger complained, even though last year, the local union offered wage concessions and the state offered tax abatements. But in truth, there is nothing the U.A.W. head can do about that either.
 What Mr. Gettelfinger can do -- the only thing he can do right now -- is begin negotiating with Mr. Miller. When I asked how he planned to play the awful hand he'd been dealt by the Delphi bankruptcy, he rebuffed the question. Unlike Mr. Miller, he said acidly, ''We don't negotiate in the media.''
 But he did say that the membership was furious that this newcomer -- Mr. Miller has only been C.E.O. since July -- had the nerve to ''stand in front of them with a Delphi hat on and tell them he was the only one in America telling the truth. I cannot stress to you how upset the membership is,'' he added. He also expressed outrage that Mr. Miller was acting, as he put it, ''like he's some kind of dictator. Our union acts as a democracy. Whether he likes it or not, our membership will have some say in the final in the outcome of these deliberations.''
 He's right, of course: the U.A.W. will have some say, but not nearlyas much as it would have had if Delphi hadn't filed for bankruptcy. Frank Lorenzo notwithstanding, bankruptcy is indeed a tool for dealing with union labor costs in a globalized age, perhaps the most powerful one ever devised. That's not spin. That's cold, hard fact.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Frank Lorenzo (pg. C1)
Ron Gettelfinger, left, of the United Auto Workers, and Robert Miller, Delphi's chief, are battling on cost cuts and labor concessions. (Photo by Rebecca Cook/Reuters)
 (Photo by Paul Sancya/Associated Press)(pg. C13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); AIRLINES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); STRIKES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (67%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%) Automobiles; Bankruptcies; Labor; Organized Labor; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining); Wages and Salaries; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Airlines and Airplanes; Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%) United Automobile Workers; Delphi Corp; Continental Airlines; General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: Frank Lorenzo

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



295 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Picking Up the Pieces; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: The Fall of Refco Is Providing a Test for Wall Street

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON and LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
Two weeks ago, the chairman of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and a banker from HSBC went to visit Phillip R. Bennett, the chief executive of Refco, one of the largest commodities and futures trading firms, at its offices in the World Financial Center in lower Manhattan.
 Mr. Bennett, smartly dressed and in good spirits, sat and chatted about the paintings on the office walls and the options that Refco had for moving when its lease came up at the end of the year. In riding a worldwide boom in the trading of commodities and derivatives, Refco was on top of its game: the company had successfully gone public in August, selling $583 million in stock and making Mr. Bennett and other top executives very rich men.
''He didn't seem to have a care in the world,'' said the chairman of the Philadelphia exchange, Meyer S. Frucher. 
 Mr. Bennett is no longer chief executive. Forced to wear a monitoring device on his ankle, he now faces a charge of securities fraud in connection with $430 million in debt that prosecutors say he hid from regulators and investors. His firm is rapidly sliding over the brink as customers flee and regulators and bankers look to pick up the pieces.
 Wall Street's history is littered with abrupt financial collapses, but few have been as fast and furious as the implosion of Refco this week.
 Yesterday, the firm announced it was shutting down one of its biggest units, Refco Securities, its regulated broker-dealer arm. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission suspended withdrawals of funds from the unit and Refco Clearing for 20 days in an effort to prevent a run on the bank. 
 At the same time, Refco's advisers are scrambling to salvage what they can of the firm, seeking to sell what remains. 
 One person said the situation was ''chaotic,'' describing a conference call with the Refco board as ''involving a lot of screaming.''
 The rapid downward spiral of Refco is an illustration that on Wall Street what often matters most is not so much the size of the balance sheet that keeps a firm solvent as it is the character of the person at the top.
 Indeed, firms that once dominated the financial landscape, like Drexel Burnham, E.F. Hutton, Salomon Brothers and Kidder Peabody, have all disappeared, done in largely by scandals involving individuals who undermined trust in the firms. 
 In the case of Refco, some of Wall Street's finest names appear to have trusted in Mr. Bennett and may pay a heavy price as a result: Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse First Boston, Refco's underwriters; and Thomas H. Lee, a well-known private equity investor who last year bought a majority stake in the company.
 ''It is unfortunate that accountants can't put trust and reputation on a balance sheet. There is just no line for it,'' said Andy Kessler, a former research analyst and hedge fund manager who has written books about Wall Street. ''In many cases it's more valuable than the cash.''
 A wave of scandals in recent years have spelled the end for a string of chief executives, from Kenneth L. Lay at Enron to Bernard J. Ebbers at WorldCom.
 The relentless pressure that chief executives face in feeding the appetites of impatient investors, combined with the calculus that better earnings equal a higher stock price and a richer trove of options, can in some cases cause a chief executive to cross a certain ethical, if not legal, line. But what drives one executive to make such a choice and another to stay true to his values remains largely a mystery. Many on Wall Street say that the extent to which chief executives can fight off the temptation to think of themselves as larger than their firms is one of the crucial challenges that corporations and their boards face today.
 ''Character starts at the top,'' said Winthrop H. Smith Jr., a retired senior executive at Merrill Lynch. ''Look at all these examples at Enron and Tyco and WorldCom. It's hubris.''
 There are still many questions about how a private company controlled by Mr. Bennett came to have a $430 million debt owned to Refco and about the transactions that hid that debt from Refco's books.
 Mr. Bennett, a 57-year-old Briton with homes in Manhattan and Gladstone, N.J., repaid the money on Monday, but he was arrested on Tuesday night. His lawyer has said the government ''jumped the gun.''
 On Thursday, Refco announced that it would shut down its capital markets business, an unregulated entity that offered services to hedge funds, such as lending securities, maintaining accounts and clearing trades. Customers were told they could liquidate their accounts but were informed they would not get their money for 15 days.
 Customers treated the news yesterday that another unit was being shut down as confirmation that the firm was collapsing. 
 ''You are securing your capital and figuring out where you will do business on Monday,'' said one Chicago-based trader who did business with every part of Refco's operations.
 Refco's remaining business, its futures trading business, has not been shut down, but institutional and individual investors are scrambling to get their accounts moved.
 Refco's bonds continued to slide yesterday, falling to 34.13 cents on the dollar, a sign that investors believe the firm will default. 
 A spokesman for Refco did not return calls for comment.
 Rumors spread around Wall Street that Goldman Sachs, which has been retained as a financial adviser to the firm, would assume some of the firm's trades to settle them. 
 A spokesman for Goldman said it was not asked to assume the trades and had not done so. A spokesman for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said, ''We have not asked any firms to invest on behalf of Refco.'' 
 As regulators and lawyers swarmed the company, Goldman canvassed Wall Street looking for potential buyers for all of, or pieces of, Refco's business. Executives at rival banks expressed interest in acquiring client accounts and trades, but no one is likely to want the full company for fear of the liability associated with it.
 Lawsuits have already been filed against the company and are expected to be filed against many of the advisers, underwriters and bankers who did not catch the alleged fraud: the firm's auditor, Grant Thornton; Thomas H. Lee, the buyout firm that bought 57 percent of Refco in 2004; the lenders in that buyout, including Bank of America, Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse First Boston; and the underwriters who took Refco public in August 2005, Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse First Boston. 
 Refco officials were scheduled to take part in a conference call yesterday with banks who lent the company $800 million last year. At the last minute, the company said it would not participate in the call, indicating that it had been told not to by its lawyers. 
 The banks, which are now owed about $648 million, are expected to issue a letter by Monday indicating that the company is in default of its loan. 
 But the banks have not yet decided to call the loan, which could send Refco into bankruptcy court proceedings. The company has been in breach of obligations to its lenders since Monday, when it announced that its financial statements dating back to 2002 could not be relied upon. Banks depend on such statements to make loans. 
 Certainty of financial soundness is imperative in the trading business. Refco was forced to shut its unregulated capital markets business because of fears that there would not be anyone to assume the obligations of a trade. If a mutual fund wants to buy $100 million worth of United States Treasury securities through Refco, it calls the firm and asks it to find a seller. When Refco finds a seller, it buys the bonds from the seller and sells them to the mutual fund. 
 But in a liquidity crisis, the seller would not want to deliver the bonds to Refco for fear that it would not get paid, and the buyer, or the mutual fund, would not want to pay Refco for fear it would not get the securities. 
 ''It's the ultimate credit-default risk,'' said one commodities trader, who did not want to be named because of the sensitivity surrounding the demise of Refco.
 ''If you are the customer or the counterparty, there is no assurance you would get the securities you wanted or Refco would have the money to pay for them.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Refco was flying high last month. Now its customers are fleeing and regulators are swarming. (Photo by New York Stock Exchange, via Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
 Phillip R. Bennett, who was forced to step down as chief executive of Refco, faces a charge of securities fraud in connection with $430 million in debt that prosecutors say he hid from regulators and investors. (Photo by Peter Foley for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BONDS (77%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); PAINTING (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); SCANDALS (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); ETHICS (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Accounting and Accountants; Securities and Commodities Violations; Bankruptcies; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: BRINK AS (68%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Refco Inc; Goldman Sachs Group ; Credit Suisse First Boston; Lee, Thomas H, Co; Refco Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

PERSON: Jenny Anderson; Landon Jr Thomas; Phillip R Bennett

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



296 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: For Trade Center Builders, the Future Starts With a Very Old Number 

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
With the public captivated in recent weeks by talk of freedom, patriotism, memory, honor and dishonor at ground zero, the engineers who are actually shaping its future have been working in another dimension.
 Inches.
And they have now set what is perhaps the most important dimension for the future World Trade Center: the height of the memorial plaza that will be its spatial and spiritual centerpiece.
 What makes that height so important is that it determines the relationship of the plaza, which must be tabletop flat, to everything around it: the Freedom Tower, the PATH terminal and the surrounding streets and sidewalks. But setting the dimension is not easy on a site that slopes down more than 20 feet as it approaches the Hudson River. 
 The plaza itself needs to be as close to the sidewalk as possible, no more than three and a half feet higher or lower, so that it can be seen and approached easily by all visitors -- including the disabled -- from all directions, without walls or long flights of stairs.
 ''The appearance of the memorial as well as the accessibility of the memorial were paramount,'' said John P. Cahill, chief of staff to Gov. George E. Pataki and the top downtown redevelopment official.
 After months of pushing and pulling, the plaza elevation was finally set last month at 313 feet above a subterranean benchmark known as the World Trade Center Downtown Restoration Program Datum.
 ''Giving up inches got a lot done,'' said Steven Plate, deputy director for priority capital programs of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the trade center site. ''As a result of this effort, we've been able to move forward.''
 A datum is an imaginary horizontal plane against which a construction project is measured. Typically, it is set far below ground to ensure that all elevations -- even those in the deepest subbasement -- are above that plane, to avoid construction mistakes.
 The trade center datum, related to one originally used for the Hudson & Manhattan Railroad, the predecessor to PATH, is 297.347 feet below mean sea level.
 A higher plaza would have meant more room for utility lines, ductwork, mechanical areas and public spaces below ground. Too much height, however, would have set the memorial plaza apart from its environs, recalling the Austin J. Tobin Plaza of the original World Trade Center, which met West Street as a formidable wall.
 In recent weeks, the calibration of the plaza level -- which must be set before final construction drawings are prepared -- turned largely on reconciling the difference between the Freedom Tower lobby and the roadbed of Greenwich Street.
 Negotiations involved the Port Authority, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, New York City Transit, the State Department of Transportation and Silverstein Properties, the developers of the Freedom Tower. ''Everybody had to make compromises,'' Mr. Cahill said.
 Greenwich Street, between Dey and Cortlandt Streets, started at elevation 316 feet, allowing for the No. 1 subway line underneath and the structural support, ductwork, fans and utility lines between the tunnel and the street surface.
 At this location, there could be only a one-foot difference between street and plaza, to permit emergency vehicles to get onto the memorial plaza from Greenwich Street. That tentatively set the plaza level elevation at 315 feet.
 But across Fulton Street from the memorial is the Freedom Tower. Its lobby runs through to Vesey Street, at the lowest end of the site. Silverstein Properties wanted the Fulton Street end of the lobby to align with the memorial but did not want too great a change in levels between the Fulton and Vesey Street sides.
 During several weeks of intense re-engineering, a way was found to lower Greenwich Street to elevation 314 feet by reconfiguring the underground ducts and reducing their size, changing the thickness of structural slabs, moving utilities and altering the slope of the street. That allowed the plaza level to be set at elevation 313 feet.
 Meanwhile, Silverstein Properties raised the Fulton Street side of the Freedom Tower lobby to elevation 311.2 feet. The 1.8-foot grade change between the tower lobby and the memorial across the street can be rendered almost imperceptible.
 The benefit is not only to the memorial design, said Stefan Pryor, president of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, but also to the goal of knitting together Battery Park City and the World Financial Center with the financial district to the east.
 Mr. Plate of the Port Authority said that elevation 313 was still subject to minor modification, but that the recent problem-solving exercise would serve as a ''model for many other issues to come.'' He explained the secret of its success: ''Locking the doors and saying, 'We don't leave the room till we've worked it out.'''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Differing Heights Around the World Trade Center''Elevations are measured from an underground benchmark called the World Trade Center Downtown Restoration Program Datum, which is set at 297.347 feet below sea level. These measurements assist the construction process.Map/Diagram highlighting the differing levels of elevation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); CITY LIFE (70%); LOBBYING (65%); CITIES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



297 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Debtors Throng To Bankruptcy As Clock Ticks 

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; Brenda Goodman contributed reporting from Atlanta for this article, Gretchen Ruethling from Chicago, Carolyn Marshall from San Francisco, Cindy Chang from Los Angeles and Kate Zezima from Boston.

 BODY:
They were construction workers, schoolteachers and medical center managers. From Manhattan to Minneapolis, Chicago to San Francisco, they stood in long lines that snaked a block or more for much of yesterday. Some brought their children. Some had arrived at dawn. 
 It may have looked like a frenzied rush for rock concert tickets, but the thousands of people standing patiently in line for hours outside federal courthouses were waiting to file for bankruptcy. It was the final workday before a tough new federal law takes effect.
For many in line, it was the first time they were filing for bankruptcy protection. Some acknowledged that they had waited until the last minute to file because they were procrastinators, others because their paperwork had been delayed. Most spoke of a messy divorce, medical bills or mountains of student loans or credit card debt that had gnawed at their finances for years. 
 ''I have a lot of medical bills and, unfortunately, I can't pay them,'' said Mercedes Estrada, a legal assistant and single mother of three young children from the Bronx, who rattled off a list of more than $50,000 in debts. ''It's overwhelming and stressful.''
 ''This is a day of last resort,'' added Stephen L. Morris, a lawyer bringing his clients' bankruptcy petitions to the court in Lower Manhattan. 
 Through Oct. 8, consumers had filed more than 1.47 million bankruptcy petitions, a 19.4 percent increase over the same period in 2004, according to Lundquist Consulting, a company in Burlingame, Calif., that compiles bankruptcy statistics. Almost 103,000 petitions were filed in the first three days of this week alone.
 When the new regulations go into effect on Monday, they will introduce sweeping changes intended to make it more difficult for consumers to erase their debts. They will also increase the costs of filing for bankruptcy, adding new steps like credit counseling and more paperwork to the process. The new law, which was passed by Congress six months ago, will also require a thorough review of whether people can pay off at least some of their credit card bills and other debts.
 In anticipation, there has been a rising stream of bankruptcy filings in the past several months. That has turned into a scramble in the last couple of weeks. 
 But at federal courthouses across the country yesterday, the sheer numbers were more than anybody in the court system could recall.
 ''We have never seen anything like this,'' said Barbara J. May, a consumer bankruptcy lawyer in St. Paul. ''We knew it would be an upswing, but this is pandemonium.''
 Bankruptcy lawyers across the country reported scores of last-minute phone calls from anxious debtors wanting to schedule an appointment; one out-of-state client even bought a first-class airline ticket just so he could meet with an adviser. 
 Court clerks around the country reported that thousands of consumers had filed their bankruptcy petition electronically. But thousands more filed their paperwork in person, prompting many bankruptcy courts to use vacant courtrooms, bakery ticket numbers and extra staff members. The flood of filings is expected to continue until midnight Sunday because the judges are allowing electronic filings and some courthouses have put out drop boxes. 
 ''Everyone expected that there would be this breaking of the levee,'' said Samuel Gerdano, the executive director of the American Bankruptcy Institute, an industry research group based in Arlington, Va. ''But this is really astounding.''
 In Atlanta, lawyers stood in line outside the Richard B. Russell Federal Building for five hours to file petitions for their clients, one bringing 30 new cases to the court. In San Francisco, the bankruptcy court opened early to accommodate all the filers, among them a desk receptionist and a former dot-com chief executive. 
 In Los Angeles, the lines were thin because clerks took completed petitions at makeshift outdoor stations to handle the more than 4,000 filings expected by the end of the day. Typically, the court receives 200 to 250. 
 And in Chicago, there were consumers like Lakisha McDowell, a 24-year-old college student with credit card debt and other unpaid bills, who waited for two hours to file.
 ''Everyone knows the new law is going to be complicated,'' Ms. McDowell said. ''I was eventually going to file. The change made me do it faster. ''
 Others also filed to be safe rather than sorry. ''The law seems draconian to debtors,'' said Glenn Marston, while waiting in line at the bankruptcy court in Boston. ''I don't know how it applies to me, but I didn't want to go through everything if it did.'' 
 But many consumers, like Dario Gromez, an unemployed construction worker from Upper Manhattan, were under the mistaken impression that the bankruptcy courts would soon shut their doors. ''After Oct. 17, I can't file for bankruptcy,'' he said, with an application he started filling out two years ago but completed on Thursday night. ''That's what I heard in line and from my brother.'' 
 Though the number of cases is expected to fall off for the next few months, the onslaught of new bankruptcy petitions will probably put pressure on the courts. 
 Bankruptcy judges and trustees say they will have to contend with an increased caseload in addition to understanding the new rules. ''It's going to bottle up everything,'' said Judge Keith Lundin of the United States Bankruptcy Court in Nashville. ''It is going to slow down the usual administration of bankruptcy cases for a few months as we process this bulge.''
 Many consumer bankruptcy lawyers will be working through the weekend. ''I have 75 cases that I have to file before I can go home today,'' said Ms. May, who has employed five additional paralegals and her 79-year-old mother to handle the flood of phone calls. ''I will be here until midnight on Sunday and people are still calling to get appointments.''
 In many cases, consumers trying to get their bankruptcy petitions in under the wire had been contemplating the decision for a long while. The deadline, however, led them to act.
 Marshall and Yolanda Sanford of Atlanta, a couple in their 30's, said they had considered filing for bankruptcy for two years but finally headed to the courthouse there yesterday after deciding they could no longer dig their way out of debt. ''It's not a good feeling at all,'' Mr. Sanford said, his voice trailing off.
 ''I'm scared,'' his wife added, ''but finally it's over.''

 Thousands have filed for bankruptcy in recent weeks, ahead of the stricter federal bankruptcy law which takes effect Monday.

Weekly personal bankruptcy filings

Oct. 4-10, 2004: 32,972
Oct. 3-9, 2005: 102,863 -- +212%

Graph tracks weekly personal bankruptcy filings since Oct. 4, 2004.

Courts with the largest increases

Rutland, Vt.
NUMBER OF FILINGS OCT. 3-9: 183
CHANGE FROM 2004: +863%

Sioux Falls, S.D.
NUMBER OF FILINGS OCT. 3-9: 175
CHANGE FROM 2004: 733

South Bend, Ind.
NUMBER OF FILINGS OCT. 3-9: 729
CHANGE FROM 2004: 608

Lafayette, Ind.
NUMBER OF FILINGS OCT. 3-9: 184
CHANGE FROM 2004: 557

Peoria, Ill.
NUMBER OF FILINGS OCT. 3-9: 494
CHANGE FROM 2004: 542

Increase in filings by state

Map of United States highlighting the increase in the number of filings by state.

(Source by Lundquist Consulting)(pg. A16)

GRAPHIC: Photo: People lined up outside the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Lower Manhattan yesterday. Thousands waited outside courthouses across the country. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. A16)Chart/Map: ''Ahead of the Law''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); PETITIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); LAWYERS (75%); TRAVEL TICKETS (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (69%); STUDENT LOANS (68%); POP & ROCK (57%) Bankruptcies; Law and Legislation; Credit

PERSON: Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



298 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Classes in Chinese Grow as the Language Rides a Wave of Popularity 

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN RUETHLING

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 14 

 BODY:
The future of foreign language study in the United States might be glimpsed here at Louisa May Alcott Elementary School, in a classroom where lanterns with cherry blossoms and pandas dangle overhead, and a paper dragon, an American flag and a Chinese flag hang from the wall. 
 One recent morning, a class of third graders bowed to one another and introduced themselves in Chinese, and a class of fourth graders practiced writing numbers in Chinese characters on marker boards. Chinese classes began at Alcott in February, but more students are already choosing it over Spanish.
''Chinese is our new baby,'' said David J. Domovic, the principal at Alcott, on the North Side, one of 20 public schools in the city offering instruction in Mandarin. ''Everybody just wants in.'' 
 With encouragement from the Chinese and American governments, schools across the United States are expanding their language offerings to include Chinese, the world's most spoken tongue, not to mention one of its most difficult to learn.
 Last month, the Defense Department gave a $700,000 grant to public schools in Portland, Ore., to double the number of students studying Chinese in an immersion program. In May, Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, and Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, introduced a bill to spend $1.3billon over five years on Chinese language programs in schools and on cultural exchanges to improve ties between the United States and China. The bill has been referred to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
 After 2,400 schools expressed interest, Advanced Placement Chinese classes will be offered in high schools around the country starting next year. Beijing is paying for half the $1.35million to develop the classes, including Chinese teachers' scholarships and developing curriculums and examinations, said Trevor Packer, executive director of the Advanced Placement Program at the College Board.
 ''Many Americans are beginning to realize the importance of speaking Chinese,'' Zhu Hongqing, consul at the Chinese Education Consulate here, said. ''We need to provide as much powerful support as we can.''
 The number of Chinese language programs around the country, from elementary school through adult programs, has tripled in 10 years, said Scott McGinnis, an academic adviser at the Defense Language Institute in Washington.
 ''Chinese is strategic in a way that a lot of other languages aren't,'' because of China's growth as an economic and military force, Mr. McGinnis said.
 ''Whatever tensions lie between us, there is a historical longstanding mutual fascination with each other,'' he said. ''Planning to be ready to engage with them rather than only thinking of them in terms of a challenge or a competitor is the smart thing to do.''
 Up to 50,000 students are studying Chinese in elementary and secondary schools in the United States, experts estimate. Many are in cities like New York and San Francisco that have large numbers of Chinese-American students, and many take lessons after school or on weekends.
 The Chicago program stands out because it is entirely in public schools during the regular school day and primarily serves students who are not of Chinese descent.
 Mayor Richard M. Daley, a vocal supporter of the program, said proficiency in Chinese would be critical in understanding the competition.
 ''I think there will be two languages in this world,'' Mr. Daley said. ''There will be Chinese and English.''
 From an all-black elementary school on the West Side to a nearly all-Hispanic elementary school on the South Side to more diverse schools throughout the city, some 3,000 students from kindergarten through high school are learning Chinese. The Chinese Education Ministry has called the program a model for teaching students who are not of Chinese descent. The ministry donated 3,000 textbooks to the school system last year. 
 The program has expanded from three schools in 1999 to 20 this year and is scheduled to add five by the end of the school year.
 ''They have a great international experience right in their own classroom,'' said Robert Davis, manager of the district's Chicago Chinese Connections Program, which seeks to develop skills to help students compete in the world marketplace. ''We want them to meet on an equal playing field.''
 Some parents here worry at first about how relevant the Chinese classes are and whether they will be too difficult. The Foreign Service Institute, which trains American diplomats, ranks Chinese as one of the four most time-intensive languages to learn. An average English speaker takes 1,320 hours to become proficient in Chinese, compared with 480 hours in French, Spanish or Italian, the institute says.
 Sevtap Guldur, 31, said she and her daughter Sahire, a fourth grader at Alcott, looked over the unfamiliar Chinese characters before deciding whether to take the class. 
 ''If you're ready to learn that, go for it,'' Ms. Guldur said she told her daughter. 
 Sahire, who is fluent in Turkish, said it was her favorite class. 
 At Alcott, 160 students from kindergarten to fifth grade are studying Spanish, compared with 242 taking Chinese, although not without occasional frustration.
 ''Do we have to do it in Chinese?'' a third grader asked during a recent exercise, perhaps missing the point of the class. 
 Raul Freire, 9, a fourth grader fluent in Spanish, said he taught words to his mother so she could better communicate with Chinese-speaking customers at the bank where she works. 
 ''Mostly everybody in the school wants to take Chinese,'' Raul said. ''I think about being a traveler when I grow up, so I have to learn as many languages as I can.''
 Adriana Freire, 33, Raul's mother, who is from Ecuador, said the skills would help her son be a better competitor in the job market. ''I never thought that he was going to be able to do something like that,'' Ms. Freire said.
 Most of the 10 elementary and 10 high schools in the program here offer the language four times a week for 40 minutes a day. Each school decides how to fit the class in the school day, with some taking time from classes like physical education, music and art to make room.
 Chicago has a waiting list of schools that want to offer Chinese. The main obstacle is a lack of teachers certified by an American college, a requirement of the No Child Left Behind law, Mr. Davis said. 
 ''It's hard when we can't hire a teacher that is qualified because of that missing certification,'' he said.
 The shortage of teachers is common throughout the United States, said Michael Levine, executive director of education at the Asia Society in New York. 
 Six states have signed or plan to sign agreements with the Chinese government to import teachers from China and send teachers from the United States to China for training, Mr. Levine said. 
 ''Eventually,'' he said, ''we're going to have to homegrow our own.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 18, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about Chinese-language classes in American schools included an incorrect estimate of their growth from Scott McGinnis, an academic adviser at the Defense Language Institute in Washington. What has tripled in 10 years is the number of students in Chinese-language programs, not the number of programs.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joey Morris, left, and Raul Freire in Hong Wei Yu's Chinese class at Alcott Elementary School on the North Side of Chicago. A pupil at Alcott, left, learns that the Mandarin word for ''hour'' is ''dian.'' (Photographs by Kenneth Dickerman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%) Education and Schools; Chinese Language; Language and Languages; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: Defense Department

PERSON: LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (50%) Gretchen Ruethling

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) OREGON, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (92%) Portland (Ore); Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



299 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: All the Pretty Words, After Katrina

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Liberal Hopes Ebb in Post-Storm Poverty Debate'' (front page, Oct. 11):
If conservatives want to find out who is responsible for 25 years of squandering trillions of dollars on antipoverty programs that don't work, they should look in the mirror.
 It is conservatives who have passed huge tax cuts favoring the wealthy, stuffed bills with corporate pork and expanded the corporate welfare state through tax cuts and subsidies.
 The promise: a rising tide for all; the reality: stagnating or falling wages for most Americans as the gap between rich and poor soars and the poverty rate climbs. Meanwhile, the national debt has septupled since Ronald Reagan inaugurated ''voodoo economics.''

Ron Nason
Tucson, Oct. 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (88%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (86%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POOR POPULATION (73%); POVERTY RATES (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (51%) United States Economy; Antipoverty Programs

PERSON: Ron Nason

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



300 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: All the Pretty Words, After Katrina

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Conservatives say the plight of the poor that we witnessed in the wake of Katrina is evidence of the failure of tired, old liberal policies. Under the current Republican administration and Republican Congress, many of the ''failed'' liberal programs to alleviate poverty have been slashed or dismantled.
Concurrently, we have seen a sharp increase in poverty. According to the Census, the last time poverty fell in the United States was in 2000, when there were 31.1 million people officially classed as poor. Since then an additional 5.9 million people have fallen below the poverty line.
 This surely suggests that those liberal policies were far more effective in curbing poverty than anything Republican conservatives have produced.

Eva Feder Kittay
New York, Oct. 11, 2005

The writer is a professor of philosophy, SUNY at Stony Brook.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (91%); LIBERALISM (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CONSERVATISM (88%); POOR POPULATION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WEATHER (74%); WRITERS (73%); HURRICANES (72%); POVERTY RATES (70%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); United States Economy

PERSON: Eva Feder (Prof) Kittay

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



301 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: For Foreign Companies in China, a Rising Yuan Is Hard to Swallow

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Oct. 14 

 BODY:
At the Parlex Corporation's factory in the western part of this city, about 500 workers are producing millions of flexible circuit boards that can be used in everything from smart cards and mobile phones to inkjet printers.
 Bolstered by China's low-cost manufacturing model, this factory and two sister operations not far from here are showcases for an American company that has otherwise struggled to lower costs back home.
But with the United States Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, in Beijing to press the Chinese government to allow its currency, the yuan or renminbi, to further appreciate against the dollar, Parlex and hundreds of other large manufacturers operating in China once again face the prospect of higher prices for their goods sold abroad, and thus shrinking profit margins.
 ''If the renminbi continues to appreciate, that could have a significant impact on us,'' said Alan Wong, general manager of Parlex's Shanghai subsidiaries. ''That's something we really don't want to see.'' 
 Last summer, faced with mounting pressure because of its huge trade surpluses with the rest of the world, China ended its longtime currency peg to the dollar and allowed the renminbi to appreciate by about 2 percent, to settle at 8.1 to the dollar. China says the renminbi now floats against a basket of major currencies. But since July, the renminbi has barely budged. And that has helped renew trade tensions.
 Some American officials say the revaluation was too meager to make a difference in global trade. Yet the Chinese government has insisted that while currency reform is under way, no one should expect further revaluations in the near future. 
 Those remarks have helped fan anti-China sentiment in the United States from those who believe Chinese exporters have an unfair trade advantage.
 Mr. Snow is leading a delegation that hopes to persuade Chinese officials to ease currency controls. The group includes Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman.
 Indeed, the United States just reported a $59 billion trade deficit in August. And imports from China reached a record $22.4 billion.
 But Beijing worries that sharp currency moves could be too much of a shock for the economy, perhaps even forcing companies to lay off workers.
 Some economists say China's golden years are already coming to an end for foreign manufacturers here.
 ''The big question is what will happen over the next few years,'' said Jonathan Anderson, the chief economist in Asia for UBS. ''Wages and costs are going up in China. The economy is already past its peak. This is no longer the easy money you had in 2002 and 2003.'' 
 There are fears that if China's currency appreciates markedly, some manufacturers will be forced to raise prices or shift production to other low-cost regions like India or Southeast Asia. Multinational companies in China are already drawing up contingency plans.
 If the renminbi continues to appreciate, ''it will have a big impact on every company that has an operation in China,'' said Li Shenghai, a finance director at the Samsung Group, which has more than 50,000 employees in China.
 The hardest hit are expected to be thousands of companies in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan that are important suppliers to Western companies like Gap, Wal-Mart and Costco. 
 ''This is basically the beginning,'' said Lin Chungyu, a vice chairman for the Taiwanese Business Association in the city of Dongguan, one of China's biggest electronics manufacturing centers. Appreciation ''will have a large impact on Taiwanese manufacturers.''
 Wall Street economists are forecasting that over the next couple of years, China's currency will continue to rise against the dollar, perhaps as much as 15 percent, making Chinese-made products more costly for Americans and other foreigners to buy. For consumers in America and elsewhere, this could mean moderately higher prices for everything from television sets to toys and clothing.
 Here in the vibrant Yangtze River Delta region, where production plants hum year-round, manufacturers are worried that the latest currency dispute could further erode their profitability.
 Take Parlex, for instance, which exports about 90 percent of the circuit boards it makes in China to Europe, the United States and other parts of Asia.
 A Nasdaq-listed maker of circuit boards based in Methuen, Mass., Parlex came to China a decade ago to build a lower-cost factory to make its flexible circuits for automotive and telecommunications companies.
 While its American parent has struggled to develop sophisticated circuit boards for the military, the Shanghai subsidiaries have amassed large profits selling to companies that produce consumer electronics.
 Parlex, which recently agreed to be acquired by Johnson Electric, a Hong Kong company, has used its low-cost labor force (workers here in Shanghai make less than $1 an hour) to compete with companies from Japan and Taiwan. And now, Parlex sells flexible circuit boards, which are used to connect various electronic devices, to companies like Hewlett-Packard and Sony Ericsson.
 Last year, the Shanghai subsidiaries were the most profitable divisions of Parlex. Naturally, it is worried that those profits could erode. One problem is that Parlex borrows much of its working capital -- about $10 million a year -- from local banks in renminbi. Wages and overhead costs like water and electricity are also paid for in renminbi, making payments more costly in dollars. 
 ''It won't put us under, but it could hurt,'' said Mr. Wong, 53, who has led operations in Shanghai for nearly a decade. ''We have to see what our competitors do. We might be able to pass a little along to our customers but if we increase our costs we could lose some business.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Spools of smart card circuits are examined by a Parlex worker. The company exports about 90 percent of the circuit boards it makes in China to Europe and the United States and to other parts of Asia.
 A worker assembles circuit boards at a Parlex factory in Shanghai. About 500 Chinese workers produce the boards for the American company. (Photographs by Qilai Shen for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); US DOLLAR (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PARLEX CORP (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334417 ELECTRONIC CONNECTOR MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334412 BARE PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3678 ELECTRONIC CONNECTORS (93%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



302 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW/Nandan M. Nilekani; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Merely Following A Megatrend

BYLINE: By ZUBIN JELVEH

 BODY:
Is your job at risk? If it's the type of work that can be done over a wire, then probably yes, says Nandan M. Nilekani, the chief executive of Infosys Technologies. 
 Infosys is India's second-largest outsourcer. After achieving success in software engineering and back-office service, it has now begun to compete with companies like I.B.M. for more lucrative consulting work. This week, Infosys reported that its second-quarter earnings rose 36 percent. It raised its earnings forecast for the full year on stronger demand and a weaker rupee. 
In a recent interview, Mr. Nilekani, a chief executive who makes $60,000 a year at a company worth nearly $20 billion, spoke about Infosys's success and the danger that it and other companies like it pose to American competitors.

Q. Are you worried about the outcry over outsourcing in America?

A. What's happening is pretty fundamental. If you go back to the 1830's, India and China were 50 percent of the world's G.D.P., and then they missed the entire revolution of industry. So if you take a long view of this game, it's just part of the process.

Q. Is there anything you realistically fear from Western policy makers?

A. No. I think politicians have to win elections. But underlying secular trends like technology and demographics -- you can't stop these things, they're all megatrends. They're going to happen whether you like it or not. In fact, the guys who are going to win are the ones who say, ''It's going to happen anyway; let's figure out how we can take advantage of it.''

Q. Why did you branch out from just doing back-office work and add consulting to the mix of services you offer?

A. Our customers want us to be good at sitting down with them, understanding their business challenges, helping them devise a solution and then implementing it. They expect us to go up the chain in terms of relationships and business value. We're not trying to be strategy consultants. We're not sitting there and saying, ''Buy this company.''

Q. So now you'll be competing with the likes of I.B.M. and Accenture. Do you think you'll change the cost structure of the consulting business?

A. This is a battle of business models. We believe that at the end of the day we have a disruptive business model that is a threat to the existing business model and older companies will have to reconfigure themselves to look more like us if they're going to be globally competitive.

Q. What would that mean, to look more like you?

A. In any software project, we do 30 percent of the work in the U.S. and 70 percent in India. Our competitors do 100 percent of the work in a particular location. We have sort of become masters of delivering high value and high quality at lower cost, and on top of that we're trying to add consulting. Their challenge is to retain their relationships and business knowledge while reconfiguring their internal operations to become as efficient as us.

Q. Do you think you will be able to accelerate your consulting services as fast as companies like I.B.M. ramp up their operations in places like India to lower their costs?

A. I think the challenge is fundamentally different. For us it's about hiring and growth and building a brand; for them it's about restructuring the work force and I think, frankly, I wouldn't want to do that job because it's very painful, whereas this is exciting.

Q. What do you say to people who think that globalization will inevitably harm the United States work force?

A. Every time Wal-Mart replaces a person at a checkout counter with an automatic machine they're eliminating thousands of jobs. This is one more facet of that, except it's more emotional because instead of a checkout counter machine replacing Steve Smith, some kid in Bangalore is replacing Steve Smith. You can point to that kid and say, ''He took my job.''

Q. Does it feel odd to find yourself lecturing Americans on the joys of capitalism?

A. You guys told us for so many years to cut out this socialist rubbish and go to free markets. We came to free markets and now you're telling us, ''Stop, don't come.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nandan Nilekani of Infosys Technologies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (72%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%) Computers and the Internet; Labor; Computer Software

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (95%); ACCENTURE PLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Infosys Technologies

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (95%); INFY (NYSE) (95%); INFY (NSE) (95%); ACN (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (95%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (95%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Nandan M Nilekani; Zubin Jelveh

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); INDIA (90%); CHINA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



303 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1864 words

HEADLINE: Lipitor or Generic? Billion-Dollar Battle Looms

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
The Lipitor war is about to begin.
 Starting next June, insurers and government agencies will have the opportunity to save billions of dollars by moving patients from Lipitor, a cholesterol-lowering drug by Pfizer that is the world's top-selling medication, to an inexpensive generic version of Zocor, a similar but less potent drug now made by Merck.
Some insurers are already planning ways to move patients from Lipitor to generic cholesterol drugs after Zocor loses its patent protection. But Pfizer, which plans to use marketing muscle and clinical data to fight that migration, says that Lipitor has unique benefits and is worth a premium price, especially for patients at high risk of heart attacks.
 Both medicines belong to a class of drugs known as statins, which are the nation's best-selling medications, with almost 150 million prescriptions expected to be filled this year at a cost of $16 billion. The insurers, and some cardiologists, say that switching patients from Lipitor to generic Zocor will be a safe way to cut costs in an era of skyrocketing pharmaceutical prices. 
 In many cases, they say, patients who now take the most commonly prescribed dosage of Lipitor -- 10 milligrams daily -- can reduce their cholesterol just as much with Zocor. Lipitor costs $2 or more a day, while generic Zocor will probably cost 35 cents or less. 
 ''If I was taking a statin, I'd want to take the cheapest one, as long as I get to the goal that I wanted to get to,'' said Dr. Scott Grundy, a researcher who has consulted for both Merck and Pfizer. Dr. Grundy led a federal panel that in 2001 wrote guidelines for treating people with high cholesterol.
 But other doctors and epidemiologists say that Lipitor may be the best drug for many patients. ''It would not be good medicine to go to a cheaper medicine that has less efficacy in our high-risk patients,'' said Dr. Robert Vogel, a cardiologist at the University of Maryland, who has been paid by Pfizer to help conduct a clinical trial of Lipitor.
 Pfizer says it will fiercely defend Lipitor. ''By taking any dose of Lipitor, you will reduce the risk of a cardiovascular event faster and to a greater degree than you will with any other medicine,'' said J. Patrick Kelly, Pfizer's president of United States pharmaceuticals.
 The fight over Lipitor involves a collision of fundamental forces in American health care. Spending on prescription drugs has jumped from $40 billion in 1990 to almost $250 billion this year, and continues to rise faster than overall inflation. But while many Americans say they believe that prescription drugs cost too much, they rarely want to accept generic medicines for themselves instead of more expensive drugs that may be only marginally better -- especially since insurers or government agencies pay nearly 70 percent of all drug costs.
 Dr. JoAnne Foody, a practicing cardiologist and a professor at Yale University School of Medicine, said she expected to continue prescribing Lipitor for her high-risk patients, who need the maximum possible reduction in cholesterol. 
 But she said she would be inclined to switch other patients off Lipitor onto generic Zocor, also called simvastatin, if the price difference was significant.
 ''There are a very large portion of patients where the data for simvastatin are equivalent and sometimes better than the data for Lipitor,'' Dr. Foody said.
 But convincing American patients to give up a brand-name medicine and take a generic drug is not easy, said Albert Rauch, a drug industry analyst at A.G. Edwards, a regional brokerage firm based in St. Louis. 
 For example, even though the antacid Prilosec is available in an inexpensive over-the-counter form, people prefer three very similar but higher-priced prescription antacids -- Prevacid, Nexium and Protonix. Those three will have $10 billion in United States sales this year. 
 ''Therapeutic substitution -- substituting one product for another in the same class -- just hasn't happened yet,'' Mr. Rauch said.
 And Lipitor has more than Pfizer's marketing dollars working for it. Last month, an analysis of 14 clinical trials by Oxford University and the University of Sydney in Australia found that the more potent the statin and the greater the cholesterol reduction, the lower the risk of heart disease. 
 Dr. Colin Baigent, who oversaw the analysis, did not directly endorse Lipitor but said he believed that statins were not interchangeable.
 ''The aim should be to get their LDL cholesterol as low as possible,'' Dr. Baigent said, referring to low-density lipoprotein, or LDL, cholesterol -- commonly called bad cholesterol. ''There is potential for many patients benefiting more.''
 Statins work by interfering with the liver's ability to synthesize LDL cholesterol. All statins are chemically similar, although Lipitor, whose active ingredient is called atorvastatin, is more potent than Zocor, or simvastatin.
 The highest dosage of Lipitor (80 milligrams) can reduce cholesterol as much as 57 percent in an average patient, while the highest dosage of simvastatin lowers cholesterol 47 percent. But because most patients are not placed on the highest dosages, the two drugs can achieve comparable cholesterol-lowering results in many cases.
 Several large clinical trials have shown that statins reduce the risk of heart attacks and strokes. And statins appear to be safe for most patients, although they can cause muscle weakness in some people and occasionally lead to severe muscle damage.
 As a result, statins have become among the most commonly prescribed drugs. This year's forecast of 150 million statin prescriptions in this country is up from 82 million in 1999, according to IMS Health, a Pennsylvania company that compiles data about drug usage.
 About half of those prescriptions will be for Lipitor, which is taken by 12 million Americans a year, at a cost of about $8 billion. Worldwide, Lipitor sales are forecast to top $12 billion this year, making the drug by far the best-selling prescription medicine.
 Prescription drugs are protected by patents that give their inventors the exclusive right to sell them for up to 20 years, though they usually must spend part of that time gaining federal approval. The patent protection enables the drug maker that discovered the drug to earn back its development costs and make a profit. Otherwise, other companies could make and sell identical versions of the medicine, undercutting the company that invented it.
 But when a patent expires, the legal protection disappears. At that point any company can make the drug, as long as it proves to the Food and Drug Administration that its version is identical to the original. The patent on Lipitor is to expire in 2011, but that patent has been challenged.
 Zocor will lose its patent protection next June 23, and be opened to competition. Ivax, a generic drug company, has already said it will produce a generic version of the drug, and other companies plan to follow. As more generics enter the market, the price of generic simvastatin could fall to 35 cents a pill or less, compared with $3 or more now, according to Richard T. Evans, a drug industry analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
 Merck will lose billions of dollars in annual sales and profits when Zocor loses its patent protection. To recoup its profits, Merck has introduced another anticholesterol drug, Vytorin, which combines Zocor with Zetia, a medicine from Schering-Plough that is not a statin but also reduces cholesterol.
 Vytorin is about as effective as Lipitor at lowering cholesterol, so both Merck and Pfizer have a stake in convincing doctors and insurers that they should pay extra for the increased potency their drugs offer over generic Zocor. But because Lipitor is so much more popular than Vytorin, Pfizer has more to lose than Merck and Schering-Plough if generic simvastatin becomes a standard treatment. 
 Last week, Express Scripts, a Missouri company that helps companies design drug benefit plans, said it would drop Lipitor from its list of preferred drugs. Instead, Express Scripts has devised a plan that will offer patients taking generic simvastatin a much lower co-payment on their prescriptions.
 Steve Littlejohn, a spokesman for Express Scripts, said simvastatin was a viable alternative to Lipitor for most patients.
 At its minimum 10-milligram dose, Lipitor reduces bad cholesterol an average of 39 percent. In contrast, a 40-milligram dose of simvastatin cuts cholesterol by as much as 41 percent. For patients who need a higher-potency statin, Vytorin will be available, Mr. Littlejohn said. ''Consumers and physicians and employers have seen the steady, almost inexorable rise in pharmacy costs, and said nothing can be done,'' Mr. Littlejohn said. ''We're saying something can be done.''
 Other insurers also say the Zocor patent expiration is an opportunity to reduce drug spending. Robert Seidman, the chief pharmacy officer for WellPoint, the nation's largest publicly traded health insurer, estimated that wide use of simvastatin could reduce the nation's drug costs by $2 billion or more a year. To encourage patients to switch from Lipitor, WellPoint plans to offer members four to six months of free simvastatin as soon as generic versions are available, he said. 
 But Pfizer is fighting back. To demonstrate Lipitor's benefits in different kinds of patients, Pfizer has conducted 400 clinical trials on Lipitor, covering 80,000 people. Lipitor's edge over other statins goes beyond its superior ability to lower cholesterol, said Mr. Kelly.
 The data from those clinical trials has enabled Pfizer to repeatedly broaden Lipitor's label of approved uses, changes that must be approved by the F.D.A. Last month, the F.D.A. said Pfizer could begin to market Lipitor for the prevention of heart attacks and strokes in diabetics. To build brand loyalty, Pfizer also has thousands of sales representatives discussing Lipitor with doctors and spends at least $60 million annually to advertise Lipitor to consumers, according to Brandweek magazine. Pfizer declined to discuss how much it spends to market Lipitor. 
 Dr. David Hyman, professor of medicine at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, said he did not expect many patients to be switched off Lipitor. He pointed to drugs that lower blood pressure, where expensive branded medicines dominate cheaper generics despite extensive research showing the generics work as well. ''So much of the market is really not price-responsive.''
 But other experts on drug benefits said they believed that generic simvastatin might put a dent in Lipitor's sales, because companies, government agencies and patients had become so concerned about drug costs.
 ''It's very likely that a large portion of the market, especially those covered by managed care organizations, will switch to generic Zocor,'' said Albert Wertheimer, a professor of pharmacy at Temple University. ''It seems like a reasonable thing to try.''

 CHOLESTEROL REDUCTION: 25-35

SALES OF STATIN DRUGS

Graph tracks number of sales of Statin drugs since 1993.

*Minimum to maximum dosages.

(Sources by National Cholesterol Education Program; Verispan)(pg. C4)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lipitor, which is taken by 12 million Americans a year at a cost of about $8 billion. Zocor will lose patent protection next year
 Lipitor in 2011. (Photo by Mike Mergen for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Stats on Statins''Lipitor is the most popular brand of cholesterol-fighting drug, but it is only marginally more potent than Zocor, the second-most popular brand.EFFECTIVENESS OF STATIN DRUGSBased on percentage of LDL-cholesterol reductionLipitorDOSAGES, MILLIGRAMS A DAY*: 10-80CHOLESTEROL REDUCTION: 39-57%CrestorDOSAGES, MILLIGRAMS A DAY*: 5-40CHOLESTEROL REDUCTION: 39-57ZocorDOSAGES, MILLIGRAMS A DAY*: 20-80CHOLESTEROL REDUCTION: 35-47PravacholDOSAGES, MILLIGRAMS A DAY*: 40-80CHOLESTEROL REDUCTION: 34-40MevacorDOSAGES, MILLIGRAMS A DAY*: 40-80CHOLESTEROL REDUCTION: 31-37Lescol XLDOSAGES, MILLIGRAMS A DAY*: 40-80

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (94%); CHOLESTEROL (93%); INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (90%); CARDIOLOGY (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GENERIC DRUGS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); DRUG PRICES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); MARKETING PLAN (76%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (74%); HEART DISEASE (69%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (66%); PATENTS (56%) Heart; Lipitor (Drug); Generic and Brand Name Products; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Cholesterol; Zocor (Drug); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Heart

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Pfizer Inc; Merck & Co Inc

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (92%); PFEB (BRU) (92%); PFE (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (92%)

PERSON: Alex Berenson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



304 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Proposed Cuts in the Factory and in the Fields

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
GLOBALIZATION exacted a toll on Delphi workers, who until now had been able to hold onto their generous wages and benefits, as the company said it would use bankruptcy court protection to cut wages or send jobs overseas. It was a rude shock for some skilled employees, and signaled that automakers were more likely to demand significant cuts in pay and benefits as they negotiated with labor unions. 
 Meanwhile, the Bush administration tried to breathe life into moribund talks on reducing tariffs and subsidies for agriculture. Another corporate scandal erupted, mergers heated up in one industry and Apple sought to extend its lead in mobile media by introducing a video version of its iPod.

WORKERS' BLUES -- Delphi's decision to seek bankruptcy protection has set up a showdown with the United Automobile Workers that could presage radical changes in the entire auto industry. Delphi, the country's biggest auto parts maker, told the U.A.W. that it must cut labor costs by two-thirds to compete with companies that make parts in Mexico and China.
The company's 34,000 unionized American workers now cost about $65 to $70 an hour, including benefits. Delphi wants to reduce that expense to below $20 an hour, in part by cutting wages to $10 to $12 an hour, or less than $25,000 a year, from the current $26 to $30 an hour.
 When it sought bankruptcy protection last week in Manhattan, Delphi said it wanted to stop paying medical and life insurance benefits for its 12,000 American retirees. General Motors, which spun off Delphi in 1999 and agreed to pay those benefits if Delphi sought bankruptcy, estimated its obligations to Delphi's workers at about $5 billion.
 G.M. could face higher borrowing costs because Standard & Poor's cut its credit rating on the news. On the plus side, G.M. said it could save $2 billion a year if Delphi reduced the price of its parts. Delphi's problems may also make it easier for G.M. to cut its labor costs when its current U.A.W. contract expires in 2007.

TRADE GAMBIT -- Seeking to revive global free trade talks, the United States offered to cut some of its farm subsidies by 60 percent if other countries would open their markets to more American imports by also agreeing to reduce tariffs on agricultural products 55 percent to 90 percent over five years. The United States asked the European Union, in particular, to reduce its agricultural subsidies by 83 percent.
 The United States trade representative, Rob Portman, made the offer ahead of a meeting in Geneva of the World Trade Organization. The discussions were the latest round in trade talks begun in 2001 in Qatar aimed at reducing trade barriers in goods and services. Organization members are scheduled to meet in Hong Kong in December to create a framework for an accord. A 2003 summit in Mexico collapsed over disagreements on agricultural subsidies.
 Mr. Portman made his offer after assuring members of Congress that American farmers could make up for the loss of government aid with increased sales to foreign markets. Officially, American subsidies total $19 billion annually, but that does not include indirect aid like import restrictions that bolster the price of sugar and orange juice.
 Reducing agricultural tariffs and subsidies may persuade the larger developing countries, including Brazil and India, to lower their barriers to imports of services and manufactured goods from the United States.

EXECUTIVE ARREST -- Federal authorities arrested the chairman and chief executive of Refco, one of the world's largest commodities brokerage firms, and charged him with securities fraud, accusing him of trying to conceal half a billion dollars in bad debts at the company before it sold shares to the public two months ago.
 The authorities say the executive, Phillip R. Bennett, shuffled hundreds of millions of dollars in uncollectible debts between Refco, a company he controlled and a small hedge fund, but did not disclose the transactions in documents describing Refco's initial public offering in August. Refco raised $583 million at the time by selling stock at $22 a share; its shares were trading at $7.90 on Thursday when trading was indefinitely suspended.
 Mr. Bennett's lawyer, Gary Naftalis, said in court that there was no reason to arrest Mr. Bennett, but a federal prosecutor, David Esseks, said that investigators decided to take him into custody after having heard Mr. Bennett, a British citizen, tell a colleague on Monday that he was ''going to Europe in 48 hours,'' according to Bloomberg News. After the court hearing, he was freed on a bond of $50 million, including $5 million in cash.
 Investors who bought Refco's shares have already filed suit against the company, its officers and directors. They are also likely to pursue the banks that underwrote Refco's stock sale, including Credit Suisse First Boston, Goldman Sachs and Banc of America Securities.

BULKING UP -- Lincoln National offered to buy a smaller rival in the life insurance business, Jefferson Pilot Financial, attracting attention far beyond the value of the deal, which was $7.5 billion. Several analysts said the takeover illustrated accelerating consolidation in the insurance industry.
 There have already been 17 deals worth $14 billion this year, as smaller companies contend with two recent megamergers: Manulife Financial's $11 billion acquisition of John Hancock Life Insurance in 2003 and MetLife's purchase of the Travelers Life and Annuity in July, valued at more than $11 billion.
 If Lincoln's acquisition is completed, the company will become the fourth-largest life insurer in the United States, with $151.3 billion in assets. Only Prudential Financial, MetLife and TIAA-CREF will be larger, according to the Insurance Information Institute.
 Further acquisitions are probable. One analyst, Andrew Kligerman of UBS, told the Reuters news agency that AXA, based in France, and Manulife, of Canada, were the most likely buyers, and that Nationwide Financial Services was one potential target.

AND NOW, VIDEO -- Will lightning strike twice? Steven P. Jobs hopes so. Mr. Jobs, the chief executive of Apple Computer, introduced a video version of the iPod, the remarkably successful portable digital music player that revolutionized the way music is sold and made Apple a darling on Wall Street once again.
 The video iPod, which comes with a 2.5-inch screen, will sell for $299 with 30 gigabytes of storage capacity or $399 for 60 gigabytes. Apple said the larger player could hold 15,000 songs, 25,000 photos or 150 hours of video.
 Several other companies, including Samsung and Pace, plan to introduce hand-held video players soon. EchoStar, the satellite broadcaster, released one this week: a portable personal video recorder called PocketDish.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, introduced the latest iPod model, capable of showing video, on Wednesday in San Jose, Calif. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); ETHICS (75%); MOBILE MEDIA (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); SCANDALS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); CREDIT BUREAUS (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%) Automobiles; Labor; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining); Bankruptcies; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Automobiles; Agriculture; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Customs (Tariff); Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations; Accounting and Accountants; Automobiles; Insurance; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Recordings (Video)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Delphi Corp ; General Motors Corp; United Automobile Workers; European Union; Refco Inc; Lincoln National Corp; Jefferson Pilot Financial; Apple Computer Inc

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (88%); ROB PORTMAN (50%) Mark A Stein; Phillip R Bennett; Steven P Jobs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); QATAR (79%); HONG KONG (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



305 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Rell Announces She Will Seek Her Own Term

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY and STACEY STOWE

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Oct. 14 

 BODY:
Fighting obvious emotion as she stood with her family and addressed several hundred cheering supporters, Gov. M. Jodi Rell formally announced her candidacy for governor on Friday, saying she would seek ''my own term'' in the office she inherited 15 months ago from a predecessor who resigned and is now in prison.
 ''You know what I like the most, what I take the most pride in as your governor?'' she said near the end of her nine-minute speech, delivered in the atrium of the 126-year-old Capitol building after rain forced the event inside. ''It's that the people of Connecticut have come to believe in me -- and I am honored and humbled by their belief.''
Clearly suppressing tears, the governor stopped herself for a long moment on the word ''humbled,'' and then met long applause as she completed the sentence. 
 ''I want you to believe in me,'' she continued. ''I want you to know that I am a different kind of governor. I truly believe in doing what's right for Connecticut -- in doing what is right for the right reasons. It's not a fancy slogan. It's who I am. It's who I have always been. You've just come to know me a little better over the last 15 months.''
 In a hall of admirers, many of whom had hoped for months that Mrs. Rell, a Republican, would complete her transformation from accidental governor to the state party's franchise candidate, the show of emotion and the simplicity of her appeal met no skepticism. 
 ''The best governor in the world,'' said United States Representative Rob Simmons, a Republican who has known Mrs. Rell since both were state representatives, ''is the person who never really planned to be governor.'' 
 Yet now Mrs. Rell, the lieutenant governor for more than nine years, is making just such plans.
 She begins her first campaign at the top of a state ticket and faces the challenge of meeting the high standards she has set for herself, including rejecting what she called on Friday ''the corrosive influence of special interest money.''
 Campaign finance reform has become an issue because Mrs. Rell has made it one by pushing the Democratic-controlled legislature, so far unsuccessfully, to adopt sweeping restrictions on who is allowed to contribute.
 Two Democratic mayors who are well-financed are seeking their party's nomination to run against Mrs. Rell. Mayor John DeStefano Jr. of New Haven has raised $2.6 million, and Mayor Dannel P. Malloy of Stamford has raised $1.7 million. 
 In her speech on Friday, Mrs. Rell reminded voters of her efforts to ''restore faith and integrity to state government,'' increase transportation funding, reform the state's policies on contracting with private businesses and keep open the United States Navy submarine base in Groton.
 She offered no specifics, however, on a full-term agenda or precise plans for how she would raise campaign money. But a spokesman for the campaign, Adam Jeamel, said afterward that Mrs. Rell would not accept money from political action committees, from lobbyists or from so-called ''ad books'' paid for by corporate donors to raise money for candidates.
 Mrs. Rell has said in the past that she would also not accept money from ''contractors as defined by what we had hoped to put in under the new legislation: those who do direct business with the state, those who are signing the contracts would be prohibited.''
 Mr. Jeamel said on Friday, after the speech, that ''more details on the state contractors will be made available.''
 The legislature declined to address the issue of changing the state's campaign finance laws after Mrs. Rell called a special session on the subject earlier this week. Before the speech, Democratic party leaders came to the Capitol on Friday to criticize as contradictory, and possibly illegal, the governor's early fund-raising efforts, including a party in downtown Hartford less than two hours after the announcement that included lobbyists among the invitees. The Democrats said Mrs. Rell would have incurred expenses for the event before she filed her campaign papers on Thursday, a violation of state law. But Mr. Jeamel noted that the state allows a 10-day grace period. 
 Top Republicans acknowledge that their new star, whose political skills were regarded as unrefined when she took office, has now set a high bar.
 ''There's no question it's going to make it more difficult for her to raise money,'' said William A. Hamzy, a state representative who is chairman of the Republican State Central Committee and who introduced the governor before her speech. ''But she possesses some of the attributes that you can't buy with all the money in the world.''
 Her announcement, which she had hinted at for several weeks, followed her rise to the governor's office on July 1, 2004, after her predecessor and running mate for three elections, John G. Rowland, resigned. 
 Mr. Rowland is serving a sentence of a year and a day in a Pennsylvania prison after he pleaded guilty in December to accepting more than $107,000 in gifts, vacations and home improvements from people doing business with the state.
 In her 15 months in office, Mrs. Rell, 59, has taken several socially moderate positions, including supporting civil unions, which she did not highlight in her announcement, and funding stem cell research, which she did address. She has also supported tax increases on estates, gasoline and cigarettes and has sought to cast herself as a government reformer.
 Both Democrats in the race, who have been raising money for months and face an August primary, said they would focus on ''real issues'' in their campaigns, including job losses, transportation problems and property tax reform. They said they would not focus on reminding voters of Mrs. Rell's long association with the imprisoned former governor.
 ''The governor gets lots of credit for not being John Rowland but I'm not John Rowland either,'' Mr. Malloy said. ''We need to have a serious debate about job loss, health insurance loss, the failure of many of our schools in this state to prepare young people for world-class competition in the economy.''
 Mr. DeStefano said the state's record in job growth was ''abysmal.'' He said Mrs. Rell's $1.3 billion plan to add rail cars and improvement interstates, was ''anemic.'' He cited issues from suburban sprawl to public education and home heating costs.
 Neither Democrat said he was prepared to match Mrs. Rell's vow to follow strict self-imposed fund-raising rules. Both said they would follow existing laws.
 A poll earlier this year by Quinnipiac University showed that attempts to link Mrs. Rell to Mr. Rowland's troubles were, at least so far, ineffective. ''The public is so attuned to her goodness and her truth-telling that you'd need an atom bomb to loosen them from her,'' said Lewis B. Rome, who was the Republican candidate for governor in 1982.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. M. Jodi Rell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (64%) Governors (US); Elections; Election Issues; Finances

PERSON: M JODI RELL (92%); DANNEL MALLOY (58%) M Jodi (Gov) Rell; William Yardley; Stacey Stowe

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



306 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: REFERENDUM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2260 words

HEADLINE: Baghdad Quiet As Vote Begins On Constitution

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG and DEXTER FILKINS; Reporting for this article was contributed by Kirk Semple in Baquba, Iraq; Robert F. Worth in Baghdad, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times in Baghdad, Mosul and Kirkuk.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Saturday, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
Iraqis walked through silent streets on Saturday morning to begin voting on a new constitution that, if passed, would mark a major step toward the formation of the country's first full-term government since the toppling of Saddam Hussein. 
 Some of the voters marched to polling centers with their closest friends or family members, others alone. Blue-uniformed Iraqi policemen with Kalashnikovs guarded the centers, mostly schools, and frisked people while American troops sat in tanks and Bradley fighting vehicles nearby. In Baghdad, helicopters buzzed low over dun-colored rooftops.
Virtually all civilian cars had been banned from the streets because of strict security rules mirroring those put in place during elections last January. 
 The voting started hours after Baghdad and parts of southern Iraq began emerging from a blackout caused by a disruption to a northern power line, possibly due to an explosion and perhaps an insurgent act of sabotage.
 That had little effect on the voting. After the country's 6,100 polling centers opened their doors at 7 a.m., people began lining up to get the paper ballots, check off ''yes'' or ''no'' for the constitution and drop the sheets into boxes. They then stamped their index fingers with purple ink to show they had voted.
 ''I came to vote for Iraq,'' said Fayek al-Ani, a businessman in a collared shirt walking into a polling center in downtown Baghdad. ''The most important thing is that I came to vote.'' 
 Passage of the constitution, whose final draft was approved only this week after months of tough negotiations among Iraqi political parties, is seen as crucial for moving the democratic process forward. 
 The Bush administration says such progress in turn would lead to greater stability and a partial reduction of the approximately 140,000 American troops here. 
 The document is expected to serve as a legal foundation for wide-ranging issues, from the Islamic character of the state to the powers of lawmakers and government officials. Its approval would lead to elections in mid-December for a full-term parliament with the power to appoint a government.
 Several bombs exploded across Baghdad and other cities on Friday, but those assaults and a handful of potshots and mortar attacks at polling stations resulted in few casualties, and by late afternoon the streets of the capital had mostly emptied of people. 
 The blackout began just as Iraqis were breaking the daily fast that is traditional during Ramadan. It resulted from a disruption, possibly an explosion, on a power line between Bayji and Kirkuk. The electricity minister, Mohsen Shlash, said he was not sure if it was an insurgent attack; guerrillas have sabotaged electrical lines before. 
 ''In the morning, we'll find out more,'' Mr. Shlash said. ''We suspect it was an explosion.'' 
 An occasional police patrol drove down Baghdad's wide boulevards, cloaked in darkness except for homes lighted by generators.
 Silence blanketed mosques that hours earlier were the sites of fierce exhortations by clerics, their opinions and advice on how to vote generally divided along ethnic and sectarian lines.
 At noon Friday, the imam of Baratha Mosque, a prominent Shiite institution west of the Tigris River in Baghdad, stood before a crowd of hundreds gathered beneath the scorching sun and spoke with little subtlety about the upcoming vote.
 ''Tomorrow, we will have a date with the dawn,'' the white-turbaned imam, Jalaladeen al-Sagheir, a powerful member of Parliament, told his followers at the sermon. ''Tomorrow, we will open the door to freedom.''
 At moments, the worshippers broke into frenzied chanting, reaching a crescendo with, ''Yes, yes to the constitution!''
 Across the Tigris, an equally impassioned scene played out, as the imam of Abu Hanifa Mosque, a Sunni Arab stronghold, urged his congregation to reject the document. After the sermon ended, hundreds of worshippers poured into the streets to denounce those few Sunni Arab politicians who had said this week they were supporting the constitution. Iraqi policemen surrounded the crowd and blocked off the streets.
 ''I haven't read the constitution because it's devoted to sectarianism, denominationalism and the break-up of Iraq according to American and Israeli instructions,'' said Othman Raheem, 40, a mechanic taking part in the protest. ''I'm going to vote against this odious constitution with a 'no.'''
 Many Sunni Arabs, who make up about a fifth of Iraq and ruled the country for decades, fear the constitution will allow oil-rich Shiite and Kurdish areas to break off into virtually separate regions, leaving the Sunni Arabs with little more than impoverished land.
 At dawn Friday, a bomb detonated at the Baghdad headquarters of the Iraqi Islamic Party, a prominent Sunni group that had said earlier this week that it was supporting the constitution. The party's office in Falluja was also set on fire, but no one was hurt in either attack.
 The last-minute backing by that party's officials and by the Sunni Endowment, responsible for maintaining Sunni religious sites across Iraq, has given American officials more assurance that the constitution will pass, a likely prospect in any case given that Shiites and Kurds generally support the document and make up about 80 percent of the population. 
 A study released Friday by the International Republican Institute, a conservative research group in Washington, said the vast majority of Iraqis planned to take part in the referendum no matter what their views: 87 percent of those polled this week in 17 of the 18 provinces said they would vote on Saturday.
 But even if the constitution passes, the future of the American enterprise in Iraq faces immense challenges. 
 For one thing, the constitution is open to the prospect of far-reaching amendments and does not address the thorniest political issues dividing Shiites, Kurds and Sunni Arabs, like the separation of powers between the central and regional governments, and the allocation of oil resources and revenues. For expediency's sake, the constitution's writers left these up to the next parliament. 
 By one count, at least 55 issues in the constitution are put off for future debate with the phrase, ''And a law shall organize this.''
 Just as important, the question remains whether the ongoing political process will damp the Sunni-led insurgency, which has been growing in strength and sophistication. 
 Statistics released Thursday by the American command show that the number of attacks per week has steadily increased since the fall of Baghdad in April 2003, despite the transfer of sovereignty in mid-2004 and the election of a transitional parliament in January 2005, major political events that were aimed at co-opting the insurgents. 
 In February and March 2004, the American military counted just under 200 attacks per week on average; that number doubled a year later. The first week of October, the military counted 723 attacks, with 165 of those killing or injuring someone.
 ''I would not want to say realistically that the referendum is going to deal a death blow to the insurgency,'' said a Western diplomat in Baghdad who has been closely monitoring the political process and who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he wants to lessen any perception of foreign involvement. ''I don't think that's true.''
 Fears of the power of the insurgency were reflected in the securitypreparations being put in place on Friday. 
 The constitution can be defeated by a two-thirds ''no'' vote in three provinces, and American and Iraqi officials say there is a chance, though slim, that violence aimed at Shiite and Kurdish areas in some provinces could hinder turnout by those voters, allowing Sunni Arabs voters there opposed to the constitution to achieve the two-thirds benchmark. Officials say this possibility exists in Salahuddin, a Sunni-dominated province, and Nineveh and Diyala, both mixed provinces. (Anbar, an overwhelmingly Sunni Arab province and the heart of the insurgency, is expected to vote ''no.'') 
 ''I will take part tomorrow and vote 'no,' and the reason for that is the rejection by Sunnis of the draft, despite the approval of the Iraqi Islamic Party,'' Basil Abdel Mawjood, a 44-year-old former government employee, said as he sat in his home in Mosul, the capital of Ninevah Province. ''I respect clerics a lot, but not all politicians. I think division is Iraq's future. It's obvious in the constitution and in daily life and in the government.''
 The commander of American forces in western Diyala Province, which includes the provincial capital, Baquba, checked on security centers near polling stations on Friday and spoke with American officers advising Iraqi troops and police. The commander, Col. Steven Salazar, said the Iraqis had deployed 8 to 12 police officers to each of western Diyala's 268 polling sites, and that two brigades of the Iraqi Army, totaling 6,000 soldiers, were on hand. 
 ''Is there anything that can threaten the success of this operation?'' he asked. ''No.''

 Islam is the official religion of the state and is a basic source of legislation: (a) No law can be passed that contradicts the fixed rules of Islam. (b) No law can be passed that contradicts the principles of democracy. (c) No law can be passed that contradicts the basic rights and freedoms outlined in this constitution.

CHAPTER 2 -- Rights and Freedoms Civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights.

MR. FELDMAN: This passage tries to balance Islam and democracy by putting them on an even footing. It all but guarantees future debate about what are the fixed rules of Islam or the principles of democracy.

Iraqis are free in their adherence to their personal status according to their own religion, sect, belief and choice, and that will be organized by law.

In the middle of a progressive bill of rights, this provision is interpreted by some to apply Shariah, or Islamic law, to family issues. In fact, the legislature and courts will have to work out what to do if a couple do not agree if Shariah should be applied to their marriage.

CHAPTER 3 -- The Federal Authorities Structure of the government: legislative, executive and judicial branches. The legislature is a unicameral parliament. Executive power lies with the prime minister and cabinet. The president is elected by the legislature and has a largely symbolic role, but does choose the prime minister. Presidents may attempt to enhance their power by cutting deals with potential prime ministers.

The Supreme Federal Court will be made up of a number of judges and experts in Shariah (Islamic Law) and law, whose number and manner of selection will be defined by a law that
 should be passed by two-thirds of the parliament members.

The Supreme Federal Court will decide the difficult questions about federalism, who owns the oil and how democracy and Islam should be balanced. The drafters punted when they declined to state how the judges would be selected. But they did say that some will be experts in religious law, so Shiite clerics, and probably some Sunni ones, will play a crucial role.

The federal government will administer oil and gas extracted from current fields in cooperation with the governments of the producing regions and provinces on condition that the revenues will be distributed fairly in a manner compatible with the demographical distribution all over the country.

This is both the trickiest and most important provision. Revenue from existing oil fields is to be distributed across the country by population, but what does it mean for the federal government to do so ''with'' the regional governments? And what about future wells not covered by the word ''current''?

CHAPTER 4 -- Powers of the Federal Authorities

One province or more have the right to form a region, based on a request for a referendum, which can be presented in one of two ways: (a) A request by a third of the members of each of the provincial councils in the provinces that desire to form a region. (b) A request by one-tenth of the voters in each of the provinces that desire to form a region.

CHAPTER 5 -- Authorities of Regions

Iraq's provinces can be united to form ''regions'' like the Kurdish one in the north. Regions will have control over nearly all aspects of day-to-day life. Whether Shiite provinces form their own mega-region may determine whether Iraq holds together as a nation. Many Sunnis objected to this provision.

CHAPTER 6 -- Final and Transitional Guidelines

The National Assembly will form a parliamentary committee from its members to oversee and review the executive activities of the Supreme De-Baathification Commission and state agencies to guarantee justice, objectivity and transparency.

This change, made this week, creates legislative oversight of the de-Baathification commission, which some Sunnis say has gone too far.

The text of the draft constitution was translated by The Associated Press and edited by staff members from the Baghdad bureau of The New York Times.

At the start of its functioning, the National Assembly shall form a committee from its members, which will be representative of the main components of Iraqi society. Its goal will be to make recommendations in a period not to exceed four months for necessary amendments that can be made to the Constitution.

This concession made to Sunnis this week creates an expedited process for amending the constitution. The change swayed some Sunni politicians to support the constitution, but whether it will sway Sunni voters is unknown.

(pg. A8)

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Khan Badi Saad, an Iraqi Army base near Baquba, an American officer, Col. Steven Salazar, right, consulted yesterday on voting preparations with an Iraqi counterpart, Col. Abdulla Hassuni, left. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 An Iraqi woman who gave birth recently in Najaf, Iraq, cast her ballot yesterday in the referendum on the constitution. Prisoners also voted early. (Photo by Alaa al-Marjani/Associated Press)(pg. A1) Chart: ''Critical Parts Of the Constitution''The draft constitution, which Iraqis will be voting on today, addresses some of the major conflicts between the Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds, but still leaves much to be resolved. Noah Feldman, a law professor at New York University and an adviser in the writing of the transitional law now in effect in Iraq, explains below some of the critical passages.CHAPTER 1 -- Basic Principles Political system, relationship with Islam, diversity and languages.FROM THE DRAFT CONSTITUTION:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); POLITICS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POWER FAILURES (88%); RELIGION (85%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); RAMADAN (66%); HELICOPTERS (55%) Constitutions; Politics and Government; Elections; Islam; Legislatures and Parliaments

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%) Edward Wong; Dexter Filkins; Saddam Hussein; Noah (Prof) Feldman

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



307 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: The Clean Water Act

 BODY:
The Clean Water Act of 1972, one of the most successful and popular of the environmental laws enacted under Richard Nixon, will turn 33 next week. But what should be a celebratory moment is tinged by concern arising from the Supreme Court's decision this week to accept two cases that challenge the law's reach and constitutionality. 
 The cases could be an early test of the thinking of Chief Justice John Roberts on the scope of the clause regulating interstate commerce, the constitutional basis for Congress's actions empowering federal agencies to protect the nation's waters. Chief Justice Roberts has no track record on the act itself, but the court he now heads has taken an increasingly narrow view of what the Commerce Clause authorizes Congress to do. There is nothing in Chief Justice Roberts's history to suggest a more expansive view. 
The better-known of the two cases involves John Rapanos, a Michigan landowner who faces steep criminal and civil charges for filling in protected wetlands on three sites in defiance of the Army Corps of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agency. 
 Mr. Rapanos has argued that the Clean Water Act applies only to navigable waterways, like rivers and lakes, and to streams and wetlands directly adjacent to such waters. His properties are 20 miles away from any navigable water, although two are within the Lake Huron drainage system and one runs through a drain to a navigable river.
 The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit rejected his argument, and rightly so. The language of the Clean Water Act plainly extends protections to all waters. For more than three decades, it has been broadly interpreted as shielding everything from large navigable rivers to seasonal streams and wetlands that, however remote, have some hydrological connection to a larger watershed.
 The biggest exception to this persuasive regulatory and legal history was a narrow Supreme Court decision in early 2001 holding that the law could not be applied to certain isolated wetlands if the only reason for doing so was their use by migratory birds. That decision did not, however, directly address the constitutionality of the act itself. Nor did Mr. Rapanos, in the Sixth Circuit case. Now he does, by arguing, in effect, that Congress improperly applied the clause on interstate commerce to regulate -- in the words of Mr. Rapanos's appeal -- ''non-economic intrastate activities like the filling of remote, nonnavigable intrastate wetlands in this case.'' 
 In response, the Justice Department argues that comprehensively protecting the nation's waters involves ''core federal interests'' and is thus well within Congress's purview. 
 The department is right. At issue here is far more than Mr. Rapanos's land. At issue is the ecological integrity of thousands of miles of small streams and at least 20 million acres of wetlands -- waters necessary for, among other things, wildlife, flood control, irrigation and clean drinking water. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER QUALITY (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (92%); WETLANDS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); RIVERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); APPEALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); LAKES (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ARMIES (69%); BIRDS (67%) Wetlands; Editorials; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Interstate Commerce; Wetlands

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (82%) Supreme Court (US); Army Corps of Engineers; Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (79%); RICHARD NIXON (73%) John G Jr (Chief Justice) Roberts; John A Rapanos

GEOGRAPHIC: LAKE HURON (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Michigan

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



308 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; REALITY CHECK: Job Numbers; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Two Different Kinds of Math, and Two Spins on Unemployment

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's record on creating jobs for New Yorkers came under scrutiny this week as his Democratic challenger, Fernando Ferrer, once again accused him of ignoring the needs of poor and minority communities. At the heart of Mr. Ferrer's attack is his claim that 40 percent of the city's black men, and 33 percent of its Hispanic men, are unemployed. 
 Just how accurate are Mr. Ferrer's numbers? Not very. 
Mr. Ferrer's aides said his unemployment figures were based on a report by the Community Service Society, a nonpartisan group that fights poverty. The report, released in February, is titled ''Unemployment and Joblessness in New York City, 2004: Better but Still a Long Way to Go.'' 
 The author of that study, Mark Levitan, the group's senior policy analyst, said that he never made any such claim about minority joblessness being that high. ''My report definitely does not say the unemployment rate among blacks is 40 percent,'' Mr. Levitan said. 
 Instead, Mr. Levitan calculated the proportion of minority men who are employed -- not unemployed -- a statistic known as the employment-to-population ratio. He found that in 2004, 60.7 percent of working-age black men and 67.7 percent of Hispanic men were employed. Both groups trailed behind white men, who had a ratio of 76.6 percent. 
 Without consulting Mr. Levitan, the Ferrer campaign interpreted the data to mean that if 60.7 percent of black men were employed, then 39.3 percent of black men must be unemployed. The problem with that methodology, economists and scholars said, was that it assumed people who were not employed must therefore be unemployed, an overly simplistic dichotomy of the labor market. 
 In practical terms, Mr. Ferrer's unemployment numbers counted those who neither sought nor wanted a job, such as students, stay-at-home fathers, early retirees, and the disabled, among others.
 ''It may make headlines, but I don't think it serves anybody to be throwing big numbers around,'' said Lawrence J. White, an economics professor at the Stern School of Business at New York University. ''It confuses and weakens, rather than sharpens, the comparison.''
 For decades, many scholarly studies have supported claims that black and Hispanic men in New York City and elsewhere have to struggle more to find work than white men, a chronic problem that becomes more acute in difficult economic times but persists even in good times.
 Dalton Conley, director of the Center for Advanced Social Science Research at N.Y.U., said these minorities tended to be at the back of the so-called labor queue -- ''they're the last to be hired and the first to be fired,'' he said -- because they often have less education and fewer skills, and face greater discrimination from employers. 
 ''It's a complicated issue and a real issue,'' Mr. Conley said. ''I support efforts to address it, but you have to have the right numbers.''
 The United States Bureau of Labor Statistics estimated that in 2004, 10.7 percent of the city's black residents were unemployed and 8.5 percent of Hispanic residents, compared with 6 percent of white residents. (The data was not broken down by race and gender.) 
 Martin Kohli, a regional economist for the labor bureau, said that as the city's economy rebounded, those unemployment rates improved slightly. The average unemployment rate for the first eight months of 2005 was 8.7 percent for blacks, 6.4 percent for Hispanics and 4.6 percent for whites, he said.
 But Mr. Ferrer and minority leaders have contended that government agencies grossly undercount the unemployment rate because only those who have actively looked for work in the past month, and are currently available to take a job, are considered unemployed. They said the numbers overlook discouraged workers who have given up, a group that includes many minority men.
 Christy Setzer, Mr. Ferrer's press secretary, defended Mr. Ferrer's use of a 40 percent unemployment rate for black men, and a 33 percent unemployment rate for Hispanic men. 
 ''We believe our method for calculating unemployment levels -- a methodology that the Bloomberg campaign has employed as well -- is more accurate, because it takes into account the vast numbers of people who have given up looking for work and more accurately assesses chronic unemployment in certain communities,'' she said.
 Stu Loeser, a spokesman for the Bloomberg campaign, said the mayor's advisers had used Mr. Ferrer's methodology only to make a larger point about Mr. Ferrer's record on creating jobs, not to endorse his economics in any way.
 Mr. Loeser reiterated that Mr. Ferrer had taken ''a relatively obscure economic statistic'' and falsely called it the unemployment rate. ''We were just applying Freddy's methodology to the Bronx in the 1990's,'' Mr. Loeser said. ''And we found that even according to his own customized way of counting, Freddy was a failure in economic development as Bronx borough president.''
 Still, Mr. Ferrer's emphasis on minority unemployment has not been completely lost in the criticism over his numbers. Indeed, several economists said they found themselves in an awkward position -- they said that while they knew Mr. Ferrer's numbers were wrong, they were hesitant to publicly challenge him since he was renewing interest in a neglected issue. 
 James A. Parrott, deputy director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, said his own research had found that the city's labor market was far weaker than the official unemployment numbers indicated, a situation that particularly affected black and Hispanic men because of the disparity in their unemployment rates. 
 Even Mr. Bloomberg seems to be paying more attention to the problem. He proposed a program this week to bring more jobs to minority communities with high unemployment like Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. Last week, he announced new steps to expand minority jobs in the construction industry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



309 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Rove Before Grand Jury A 4th Time in Leak Case
Karl Rove, President Bush's senior adviser and deputy chief of staff, testified for the fourth time to a federal grand jury looking into the disclosure of the identity of a covert C.I.A. officer. His appearance came as the special counsel weighs whether to charge anyone with a crime in the leak case before the grand jury's term expires. PAGE A12

Tallying Storms' Smaller Tabs
Most of the government's estimated $150 billion bill for storm relief is going for aid checks to victims and contracts for debris removal and housing. But there are many smaller purchases, made by workers dispatched to the region, many carrying government credit cards. PAGE A14

The Collapse of a Trader
Its former chief executive is wearing a monitoring device on his ankle and its advisers are trying to salvage some value by selling assets. Refco, once a leading commodity trader, is spiraling into a chaotic collapse. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Craig. Daniel Craig.
After a two-year search, Daniel Craig was introduced in London as the latest in a long line of actors to play James Bond. THE ARTS, PAGE B7

A Jump in Inflation
High energy prices helped push inflation in September to its highest monthly rate in more than 25 years. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C2

THIS WEEKEND

T: Beauty
The New York Times Style Magazine looks at the latest in makeup, hair color and anti-aging endeavors. Also: a list of experts for every beauty emergency, and a visit with the magazine's cover model, the actress Keira Knightley.

Chasing Ground
Home-building companies like Toll Brothers have changed the landscape for America's haves, and are still hungry for land. MAGAZINE

A New Video Game in Town
The next big thing from the people behind the controversial Grand Theft Auto is a video game with no cars and no guns. ARTS & LEISURE

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Dave Hogan/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAND JURY (92%); TESTIMONY (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); VEHICLE THEFT (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); BRUSH & RUBBLE COLLECTION (71%); INFLATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (68%); COMMODITIES TRADING (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: KARL ROVE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); KEIRA KNIGHTLEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005



310 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: CAREER COUCH; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: A Recruiter Is Calling. Should You Answer?

BYLINE: By MATT VILLANO

 BODY:

Q. Out of the blue, a competitor offers you a job for more money than you're earning now. Should you try to use the offer to get a raise from your current employer?

A. Any attempt to parlay a competitor's interest into more money from your boss is likely to be fraught with peril. Mark Oldman, co-president of Vault.com, an employment research firm in New York, says that while employees may see this as an opportunity to leverage a raise, employers could view it as a reason to question your commitment to the company. ''Playing a game of offer-counteroffer immediately calls your loyalty into question,'' Mr. Oldman said. ''There are ways to do this successfully, but to get what you want without alienating the boss requires you to proceed with caution.''

Q. What should you do, then?

A. Review the offer thoroughly and be sure you are willing to take it, because if your salary gambit fails, you may have to. Most surprise offers come by telephone, but it's important to meet with the competitor after hours or on a lunch break to discuss the offer. Peter Bell, president of Peter Bell & Associates, an executive search firm in New York, says this meeting is a good opportunity to get information about the job, your prospective colleagues and the corporate culture you might join.
''You want to peel the onion and make sure the opportunity is one to consider,'' Mr. Bell said. ''Ideally, by the time you're ready to make up your mind, you will have met 10 or 12 people and will have a solid understanding of what the job will be like.''
 Still, Anthony Townsend, associate professor of logistics at Iowa State University in Ames, Iowa, warned that employees should avoid planning these meetings over company e-mail or your work phone. Also, if you signed a noncompete agreement when you took your current job, any form of employment with a competitor could be prohibited. Check with an attorney before making a mistake that could cost you everything.

Q. At what point should you inform your boss of the offer?

A. While it may be tempting to get excited about an offer as it develops, Mr. Townsend said that employees should not consider any overtures official until they had received at least a letter outlining specifics like salary, benefits and general responsibilities.
 ''A short discussion over lunch is no reason to run and tell your boss you've got another offer,'' he said. ''If a firm is committed to the point where they're willing to write it down, it smells more like a contract and you can treat it as such.''

Q. How do you conduct negotiations with your current boss?

A. Explain how the offer came in, outline what aspects of it appeal to you, and enumerate what components of your current job make you want to stay. Mr. Oldman, the executive from Vault.com, suggested letting your boss know that you'd been struggling with the decision.
 It's a good idea to assure the boss that you'll keep your discussions confidential, Mr. Oldman said. ''The last thing a boss wants is for employees to think they can convert all competing offers into more money by staying put.'' 
 Deborah Kolb, professor of leadership at Simmons College in Boston, said another strategy was to couch the issue as a collaborative problem-solving discussion, seeking input from your boss rather than demanding answers. 
 ''Enlisting your boss in the solution shows that you are not just engaged in an offer-counteroffer game, but that you're interested in getting past this together,'' she said.

Q. How much information should you reveal about the offer?

A. Jim Camp, president of Coach 2100, a negotiation training firm in Vero Beach, Fla., said it was not necessary to say how much money the competitor was willing to pay you, but you should outline what kind of salary increase you require to stay. Mr. Camp, author of ''Start With No'' (Crown Business, 2003), warned that revealing details of a competing offer might put your boss on the defensive.
 ''If I walk in and say, 'They've offered me $250,000 a year, plus bonuses,' I throw down the gauntlet,'' he said. ''If you don't share the number, you're safe to allow your current employer to put a package together to keep you.''
 Don't exaggerate the terms of the offer in an effort to get more out of your current employer. Charles Wardell, managing director at Korn/Ferry International, an executive search firm in Los Angeles, says that most senior executives have a solid understanding of the employment market and will know when you're embellishing the truth.

Q. If your boss counteroffers with a competitive salary, is it time to celebrate?

A. Not necessarily. Katherine E. Simmons, chief executive of NetShare, an online job board in Novato, Calif., said a counteroffer could begin a journey to the unemployment line.
 Years ago, Ms. Simmons capitulated after an employee used an offer from a competitor to leverage a heftier salary. Looking back, Ms. Simmons says she felt as if she had a ''gun to her head'' to increase the employee's pay, but did so because it was a busy season and she needed the help. After that, she said, her relationship with the employee fell apart, and the employee resigned four months later.
 ''Once an employee violates the boss's trust, both parties will want to end the relationship quickly,'' Ms. Simmons said. ''If an employee is willing to risk everything for an offer that came out of nowhere,'' she added, ''maybe it's a symptom that it's time to move on anyway.''

Workplace or career topics may be sent to ccouch@nytimes.com.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Reed)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COVENANTS NOT TO COMPETE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



311 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ON THE CONTRARY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: The Island of Lost Mascots

BYLINE: By DANIEL AKST. 
Daniel Akst is a journalist and novelist who writes often about business. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
REMEMBER Smokey Bear? He personified the nation's campaign against forest fires set accidentally by humans, but said nothing about overzealous forest management policies that may have made forest conflagrations worse when they inevitably did occur.
 Or how about McGruff, the trench-coated anticrime dog? He's been on the beat for 25 years and has yet to throw a criminal in jail. Quite the opposite; in his heyday during the 1980's, crime was terrible, and while the crime rate has dropped since then, I haven't heard any criminologists suggesting the dog deserves the credit.
The Bush administration's recent promotion of Energy Hog, the painfully appropriate personification of its woeful new energy saving campaign, thus fits into a rich historical tradition of pathetic government mascots who are asked to solve problems we either can't or won't. 
 As much scapegoats as solutions, these poor creatures must try and carry away our sins as few private sector mascots have ever had to do. You can almost hear the Michelin man weep in sympathy.
 Energy Hog bears these burdens, too, but without the advantage of much good will. He's not as clever as the Aflac duck or as charmingly roly-poly as the Pillsbury Doughboy. No, Energy Hog just embodies everything that is worst in the national character; he looks like a caricature of the Ugly American from some left-wing European newspaper. 
 ''Smokey and McGruff were good guys, acting to protect us,'' observes Constantine von Hoffman, a senior writer at CMO, a magazine for marketing executives. ''The Energy Hog is what you don't want to be, and so therefore not loveable.'' He's more like the dastardly Mr. Coffee Nerves, who was said to wreak havoc on caffeine addicts in the 1950's.
 Then again, what else but pork can we expect from Washington? Ever since the gasoline lines and cardigan sweaters of the 1970's, it's been obvious America has an energy crisis, even if low oil prices covered it up for a while. 
 Despite the previous scares in which supplies suddenly went short, the United States still uses far more energy per dollar of output than other advanced industrial (or post-industrial) nations. Our addiction to cheap energy also helps support some of the world's worst regimes, and it appears to contribute mightily to global warming. It may even support terrorism. 
 With so much at stake, a sensible leadership (blessed, in all fairness, with a sensible electorate) might have imposed a hefty fossil fuel tax that might simultaneously close the federal deficit, finance a crash program of research to find alternatives to oil and promote conservation. At the least, we could roll back the tax, zoning and other government policies that promote energy profligacy.
 Instead, we get a bloated pig who is the visual equivalent of ''Whip Inflation Now,'' that uniquely ineffective slogan invented by the administration of President Gerald Ford when it had no idea what else to do about runaway inflation in the 1970's.
 Indeed, I know of no clearer signal of futility than when government resorts to mottos and mascots. How many sport utility vehicle owners can remember Woodsy the Owl (''Give a hoot! Don't pollute!'')? Or Chief Iron Eyes Cody, whose reaction to a scarred landscape was a single wrenching tear (and who, after 30 years of sprawl, must be crying himself a river)?
 Of course, companies occasionally substitute mascots for solutions as well. Microsoft is a notable example. In the 1990's, it wheeled out Bob, a character who was supposed to put a human face on its maddeningly complex software. Later we got Clippit, Microsoft's irritatingly twee office assistant, who mainly seemed to drive users to distraction.
 Despite the clear threat our energy habit poses to the economy, the best we can hope for from this new mascot is a kind of aversion therapy; by helping each of us recognize our inner Energy Hog, he may shame a few into conservation.
 At the very least, Energy Hog decals deserve a place of honor on every S.U.V. Perhaps Energy Hog tattoos could be made tax-deductible.
 Fortunately, we do not have to rely on Energy Hog to help us save energy; sustained high prices will do the job all by themselves. In that sense, hurricanes and oil cartels are as helpful as restrictions on drilling, refineries and nuclear power plants. 
 It's just too bad the mascot we already had -- good old Uncle Sam, once so ready to roll up his sleeves and get his hands dirty -- can't do more to help.



GRAPHIC: Photo: Energy Hog was created to remind Americans to save energy. (Photo by Alliance to Save Energy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREST FIRES (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (89%); FIRES (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); FUEL TAX (66%); LIBERAL MEDIA (64%); WRITERS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); TERRORISM (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ALLIANCE TO SAVE ENERGY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



312 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank: October 10-14; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Stock Markets Were Grateful for Friday

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
A late-week rally failed to lift shares enough to offset earlier declines, resulting in a week of modest losses for the stock market.
 The market rose on Friday on a decline in the price of oil. 
Crude for November delivery closed for the day at $62.63 a barrel in New York. While a Labor Department report on Friday said that consumer prices jumped 1.2 percent in September -- the biggest monthly increase in 25 years -- the core rate of inflation, excluding food and energy, rose only 0.1 percent. The restrained growth in the core rate evidently contributed to the optimism that prevailed for the day on Wall Street.
But earlier in the week, the market continued a decline that started at the beginning of the month, and this outweighed Friday's gains.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 4.97 points, or 0.05 percent, to close at 10,287.34. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 9.33 points, or 0.78 percent, to close at 1,186.57. The Nasdaq composite index declined 25.52 points, or 1.22 percent, to close at 2,064.83.
 In the bond market, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.48 percent from 4.37 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.MonsantoNYSE: MONThe agricultural products maker said its quarterly loss from continuing business was 50 cents a share, 1 cent less than had been expected by Wall Street. The company also raised its 2006 earnings forecast.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $60.02WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.83%EST. '05 P/E: 24.03NCR CorporationNYSE: NCRThe world's largest maker of A.T.M.'s raised its third-quarter and fiscal 2005 earnings outlook, saying revenue and cost savings were going better than expected.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $32.58WEEK'S CHANGE: +4.89%EST. '05 P/E: 20.89Krispy KremeDoughnutsNYSE: KKDThe doughnut maker has been battling accounting issues, financial restatements and franchisee lawsuits in recent months as it struggles to reorganize and stay out of bankruptcy.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $4.86WEEK'S CHANGE: -22.61%EST. '05 P/E: 16.04IHOPNYSE: IHPThe restaurant chain said that its same-store sales rose 4.5 percent in the third quarter. The company also said that customer traffic picked up in part because of breakfast promotions and menu price changes.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $44.10WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.33%EST. '05 P/E: 20.91KossNNM: KOSSThe maker of headphones and other accessories for stereos reported a strong first quarter. The company said its sales rose 33 percent to nearly $12 million, and that business in Europe was especially good.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $21.05WEEK'S CHANGE: +22.03%EST. '05 P/E --RealNetworksNNM: RNWKShares of the digital media software company soared on news that Microsoft had agreed to pay the company $761 million as part of a settlement of an antitrust lawsuit.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $7.62WEEK'S CHANGE: +31.83%EST. '05 P/E: 101.60LG PhilipsNYSE: LPLThe maker of liquid-crystal displays for computers, cellphones and televisions said its third-quarter net income tumbled 22 percent. Its American depository receipts fell on the news.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $19.50WEEK'S CHANGE: -9.72%EST. '05 P/E: 30.95JetBlue AirwaysNNM: JBLUThe airline said it would begin offering 10 daily flights between Kennedy International Airport in New York and Boston next month, a route dominated by rivals like US Airways, Delta and Continental.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $19.56WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.22%EST. '05 P/E: 141.74(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BONDS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); FRANCHISEES (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



313 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: A Capital Gains Comeback. Is Your Fund Ready? 

BYLINE: By Paul J. Lim. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
SINCE 2001, fund investors who've put new money to work late in the year have been spoiled. They've not only earned outsized gains -- in fact, double-digit returns in the fourth quarters of 2004 and 2003 -- they've also avoided that pesky problem that typically plagues funds in late November and December: unwanted capital gains distributions.
 ''People have largely forgotten about capital gains distributions as an issue,'' said Duncan W. Richardson, chief equity investment officer for Eaton Vance Management in Boston. ''But they may need to be re-educated this year.''
That's because a number of mutual funds are likely to make their biggest taxable payouts since the Internet bubble burst in 2000. 
 For example, overall capital gains distributions among American Century stock funds are likely to be 50 percent to 60 percent larger this year than last, said Brian Janssen, senior tax manager for American Century Investments in Kansas City, Mo. At T. Rowe Price, based in Baltimore, distributions among their retail stock funds could be 35 percent to 40 percent higher this year. ''I think that seems to be indicative of the entire industry,'' a T. Rowe Price spokesman, Steven E. Norwitz, said.
 Large year-end distributions are a problem unique to mutual funds. Each year, funds are required to pass along to shareholders the capital gains they realize as their fund managers sell stocks at a profit (the distributions, in turn, reduce the net asset value of the fund). This money can be pocketed by investors or reinvested into the fund in the form of new shares. Either way, investors in taxable accounts have to pay taxes on the payout immediately (about two-thirds of fund assets are held in tax-deferred accounts like 401(k)'s and IRA's).
 In recent years, fund managers were able to use their capital losses in the bear market to offset their gains, thereby reducing -- or in some cases completely eliminating -- the distributions. 
 This explains why capital gains payouts to fund shareholders in taxable accounts fell from $114 billion in 2000 to as low as $5 billion in 2002 and $6 billion in 2003, according to the Investment Company Institute, a trade group in Washington. 
 But the pool of tax losses remaining from the bear market is drying up. ''The tax loss carry-over from the 2000 to 2002 bursting of the bubble has diminished considerably,'' said James D. Peterson, vice president of the Schwab Center for Investment Research in San Francisco.
 Meanwhile, even though the stock market may seem to be in a rut, equity prices have actually been soaring since the market bottomed in October 2002. Believe it or not, the Russell 2000 index of small stocks has returned more than 24 percent annually over the last three years. During the same stretch, the Standard & Poor's 400 index of midcapitalization stocks has shot up more than 20 percent a year and the S.&P. 500 index of blue-chip stocks has gained 14 percent annually. 
 As fund managers have been selling some of the winning stocks in their hands, they've been booking gains that now must be passed along to shareholders.
 All of this means that investors who are thinking of putting new money to work in this quarter need to be careful.
 For instance, unless you like paying taxes sooner rather than later, it's probably wise to wait until a fund makes its distribution at the end of this year. That way, you won't be stuck footing an immediate tax bill for a fund you just stepped into. Funds typically issue those payouts in late November or December.
 In the coming days, many fund companies will advise shareholders of what kind of distributions they can expect in their funds. But even before those notices go out, some companies like American Century say they will provide guidance to shareholders seeking that information.
 If you can't wait, you may want to consider so-called tax-managed funds, which are a type of portfolio that consciously trades stocks with tax efficiency in mind. These funds, as well as portfolios that rarely sell their holdings like some index funds, are likely to pay out smaller distributions than regular stock funds. 
 Whatever fund you choose, do a little homework. Tom Roseen, senior research analyst with the fund tracker Lipper, says investors who are thinking of putting new money into a fund should read its annual report carefully. 
 These reports, which can be found on the fund company's Web site, will detail whether a fund is sitting on harvested tax-losses or whether it has embedded gains. ''If you're comparing similar funds -- and one has a great deal of tax losses to carry forward -- then that may help you make your decision,'' Mr. Roseen said. 
 Another place to look is Morningstar's Web site. Once you look up a particular fund at www.morningstar.com, click on the ''tax analysis'' tab. Then look up what Morningstar calls a fund's ''capital gains/loss exposure.'' This is a measure of the embedded gains in a fund that have yet to be distributed to shareholders. 
 While it is not a precise gauge of capital gains payouts (as it does not factor in how efficiently the manager has traded holdings for tax purposes), funds with a sizeable portion of their assets in gains are more likely to make distributions than those sitting on net losses. 
 Disciplined investors looking to put new money to work may be able to avoid distributions this year by investing in funds that have been beaten down or undervalued by the market and as a result, may not have any gains to pay out this year. 
 Morningstar recently crunched the numbers and found that funds in categories that have lagged the broad market recently still had significant net losses to carry forward from the bear market. These included growth-oriented funds, large-cap funds and tech and telecom sector funds. 
 The average technology sector fund is still sitting on net losses amounting to more than 200 percent of its current assets, which means it may be years before these funds have to make a capital gains distribution.
 MEANWHILE, funds with the highest potential capital gains exposure are those in high-flying sectors, which value-minded investors would probably want to avoid anyway. Among real estate funds, for example, capital gains account for more than 27 percent of assets, on average. Gains represent nearly 26 percent of the assets of the average natural resources funds, according to Morningstar. 
 Other types of funds that are likely to have large embedded gains are Latin American stock funds, which have risen 51 percent annually over the last three years; diversified emerging markets funds, which are up 36 percent a year during that same stretch; and small-cap value funds, which are up 24 percent a year over the last three years. 
 Are embedded gains that big a deal?
 Yes. Even though the maximum tax rate on long-term gains has fallen from 20 percent to 15 percent, taxes in general can still take a bigger bite from a fund's total returns than even expenses. 
 This is why the fund industry is pushing for new legislation that would allow shareholders who re-invest distributions to delay paying taxes on them until the investor eventually sells.
 Until this comes to pass, though, fund investors are on their own to find ways to avoid, minimize and control this tax.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Capital Gains Exposure''Mutual funds are expected to make their biggest capital gains distributions in five years. But not all sectors are alike. While some mutual fund categories have sizeable gains in their portfolios, others are still sitting on net losses from the 2000-2002 bear market.Potential exposure to capital gains or lossesHow much the assets of the average fund in a category consist of capital gains that have not yet been distributed. A negative figure means the category has net losses, as of Sept. 30.Real estate: +27.1Natural resources: +26.0Latin American stock: +25.8Small-cap value: +24.7Midcap value: +19.2Midcap growth: -21.8Diversified Pacific/Asia: -28.5Large-cap growth: -36.4Communications: -94.1Technology: -208.8(Source by Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EATON VANCE MANAGEMENT (57%); AMERICAN CENTURY INVESTMENTS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (55%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



314 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate May Cool, Not Collapse 

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
SEVERAL reports this week gauging the temperature of the housing market are expected to show a continuation of the easing that persisted through the summer.
 Housing starts are estimated in a poll of economists by Bloomberg News to have fallen to 1.97 million units last month from 2.01 million in August. Their peak this year of 2.23 million units occurred in February. 
Building permits, a predictor of construction down the road, are estimated to have declined to 2.07 million in September from 2.14 million a month earlier. Those reports, as well as one on mortgage applications, are due to be released on Wednesday.
 Yet another indicator of the sector's health is the Housing Market Index, compiled by the National Association of Home Builders from surveys of construction firms. A reading of 64 is expected when the October report is released on Tuesday, compared with 65 in September and a high for the year of 72 in June.
 Jonathan Golub, a strategist at J.P. Morgan Funds, warned that several permutations of the housing numbers could worry Wall Street traders of a nervous disposition.
 Evidence of a significantly deepening slowdown could stir fear that consumers, who have so much of their wealth tied up in their homes, will slash spending. On the other hand, a pickup in housing activity could provoke concern that there will be no letup in Federal Reserve interest rate increases.
 Mr. Golub's prediction is for none of the above, but instead a set of numbers that point to a benign easing in the growth of home prices.
 ''Every single thing is pointing to real weakness, but not a collapse, in housing prices,'' he said. ''Home values aren't going down. They're simply not going up.''
 If such modest weakness continues, he said, ''things leveraged to real estate development may take a hit,'' such as shares in construction companies, but he added that their valuations suggest that investors are already anticipating a bout of sluggishness.
 ''What you're likely to see is a flattening in home-equity values for a reasonably long period of time,'' Mr. Golub said. ''Given how much people have made on their houses, they should count their blessings.''

DATA WATCH -- The week begins with the release Monday of the ''Empire State'' report, the New York Federal Reserve Bank's assessment of business conditions at factories in New York, which traders take as a hint of the strength of manufacturing nationwide. Economists in Bloomberg's poll anticipate a reading of 19.0 for October, up from 17.0 last month.
 Producer prices for September are due on Tuesday. An increase of 1.2 percent is expected, or 0.2 percent after food and energy prices are removed from consideration.
 On Thursday, leading economic indicators for September are scheduled to be released. A decline of 0.5 percent is forecast, after a 0.2 percent decline in August.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks housing starts (monthly, in millions) for 2004 and 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (75%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); FOOD PRICES (66%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



315 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: VENTURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Are Apartment REIT's A Good Bet?

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
THE incessant talk of housing bubbles and of rising interest rates, which will make homeownership even less affordable, has some investors focusing on the rental markets. 
 Is there a big upswing in the works for apartment owners as more people put off home buying? And what, in particular, will this mean for dividend-paying real estate investment trusts with portfolios of rental apartment properties?
Already, rental vacancies have been creeping lower, according to the latest Census Bureau data, which puts the nationwide rate for buildings with five or more units at 10.2 percent in the second quarter versus 11.8 percent a year earlier. And the National Apartment Association, which represents multifamily housing companies, reports that owners are increasing rents in some regions because of a stronger job market. 
 All this augurs well for publicly traded apartment REIT's, whose stocks have risen in the last two years despite the growing trend toward homeownership. Still, market analysts are split over the investment prospects for the sector over all. 
 A recent report by Friedman Billings Ramsey, an investment bank in Arlington, Va., paints a somewhat favorable picture for landlords, forecasting that ''the next round of interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve will put a damper on housing affordability and, hence, sales growth and pricing power.''
 Standard & Poor's remains more cautious, noting that weakness in the home-selling market ''could dramatically improve the REIT outlook,'' but an oversupply of housing in general could have a negative impact as well. Comparing new construction with household formation, it estimated that 630,000 excess units would be built this year.
 Many money managers are not making any big moves for now. ''We're a tad lower,'' Samuel A. Lieber, the chief executive of Alpine Management and Research, said of his funds' exposure to the apartment sector. The Alpine U.S. Real Estate Equity Fund has around 2 percent of its portfolio holdings in apartments, and the Alpine Realty Income and Growth Fund has 10.1 percent. 
 Mr. Lieber says he thinks any changes in the coming months will be incremental, ''not dramatic.'' Besides, he said, ''the stocks are not cheap.'' 
 Ralph L. Block, a senior portfolio manager for the Phocas Financial Corporation, an asset management company, agreed. ''This is one of the few sectors of real estate that could benefit from rising interest rates,'' he said. 
 But he added that investors seemed to have already factored that into apartment REIT stock prices, as more economists contend that a housing bubble exists in many parts of the country, especially around big cities on the East and West Coasts. 
 Apartment REIT's have been outpacing REIT's in general. For the first nine months of this year, the sector returned 9.54 percent, although by last week it was up only 2.54 percent, after a 34.72 percent return in 2004, according to the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. The average return on the trade association's composite index of all REIT's, by contrast, was 6.94 percent for the three quarters and 30.41 percent for 2004. By last week, it was minus 1.36 percent.
 Despite the economic pressures working against apartment REIT's, some companies, like AvalonBay Communities and Archstone-Smith Trust, have managed to profit handsomely from the red-hot home-buying market by selling rental properties to developers for condominium conversions. Others, like Equity Residential, have even formed units to convert their own apartments into condos.
 In the first nine months of this year, 108,181 existing rental units were sold to developers for condo conversions, according to Real Capital Analytics, a New York consulting firm. In 2004, there were 75,606, and in the previous year, 22,078. 
 Market analysts expect more condo conversions in 2006, though not at the same frenetic pace as this year. 
 ''It wasn't widespread in all markets,'' said Bryce Blair, chairman and chief executive of AvalonBay, which is based in Alexandria, Va., ''just in higher-cost markets, like Washington, D.C.; New York; California; and South Florida.'' Of AvalonBay's $500 million in asset sales expected for this year, he said, 90 percent are to condo developers.
 Archstone-Smith of Englewood, Colo., meanwhile, sold more than $2 billion in apartments over the last two years or so, and a large portion went to developers, according to the company's chairman and chief executive, R. Scot Sellers.
 ''Every year, we look at our portfolio and identify the buildings that we think will pay us a price that allows us to improve our portfolio and obtain better long-term returns,'' he said. ''With the money that we've raised, we have bought other apartment buildings.'' 
 But Raymond Mathis, who covers REIT's for Standard & Poor's Equity Research, calls condo conversions a temporary blip on the earnings radar screen that does not really change the fundamental problem that many apartment REIT's face: supply and demand. (Analysts say the mass evacuation in the hurricane-ravaged gulf area isn't expected to have a significant impact on the apartment REIT market because the cities that evacuees are moving to in large numbers tended to have vacancy rates that were already high.)
 Conversions can benefit owners of multifamily projects, of course, by shrinking the supply of rental apartments, though some of the converted units could end up as rentals again and compete once more in that sector. 
 Market watchers think that some REIT's are better positioned than others, pointing, in particular, to companies like AvalonBay, Archstone-Smith and BRE Properties, that build luxury rentals in pricey housing markets like California and the Northeast. 
 This summer, Archstone-Smith broke ground on the Mosaic, a 627-unit high-rise building in Manhattan's Clinton neighborhood, and it has four apartment projects under construction in Southern California, including the 522-unit Archstone Warner Center in Los Angeles. Two years ago, it completed the 354-unit Archstone Playa del Rey.
 AVALONBAY is working on Avalon Chrystie Place, a four-building mixed-used project that will include apartments, at Houston and Chrystie Streets on the Lower East Side. 
 ''They develop primarily in markets where housing affordability is the most constrained right now,'' said Craig Kucera, the senior multifamily REIT analyst for Friedman Billings Ramsey.
 One potential problem, though, could be rising expenses. Higher construction and labor costs may cut into profits, analysts say. 
 But Mr. Sellers of Archstone-Smith says he is confident that his company has chosen wisely in deciding where to do business. ''You have to have job growth, plus expensive single-family homes, plus a low supply of new apartment rentals,'' he said. ''That's been the formula that we followed for many years, and it has worked well.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: FOR RENT -- Renderings of two Manhattan high-rise buildings, the Mosaic, above, on 10th Avenue between 51st and 53rd Streets, and the Avalon Chrystie Place, overlooking Houston Street, left. The Archstone Playa del Rey in California was completed two years ago. (Photo by FxFowle Architects)
(Photo by Richard Lubrant Photography)
 (Photo by Alan Schindler) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); DIVIDENDS (72%); CENSUS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); NATIONAL APARTMENT ASSOCIATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



316 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; SURFACING: NEW YORK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: For Avenue C, It's Grade Inflation 

BYLINE: By DENNY LEE

 BODY:
NOT long ago, before heroin was replaced by hookahs there, Alphabet City in the far East Village of New York adhered to a simple mnemonic: Avenue A was adventurous, Avenue B was for the brave and C was downright crazy. But these days, with walk-up apartments renting for as much as $3,000 a month and a clutch of design-conscious bars attracting scenesters, Avenue C is moving two letters up the alphabet and emerging as a surprisingly upscale cousin to the neighborhood's other, frat-oriented, alcohol-soaked arteries. 
 Lined with dingy tenements, Avenue C, a former drug alley, still has rough patches. Drunken old men prop themselves on purloined milk crates, liquor stores are bunkered behind inch-thick Plexiglas, and low-income housing projects form prisonlike bookends to the avenue. But if the slumland touches once kept gentrification at bay, they now serve as a lure for jaded New Yorkers longing for some grit in the city's increasingly Disneyfied night life. 
''The trendy set feel safe on A and B, but Avenue C is still a frontier,'' said Jack Hazan, who recently moved above the Clubhouse, a gay-friendly cocktail bar he owns at 700 East Ninth Street, at Avenue C; (212) 260-7970. ''The bridge and tunnel crowd don't come here.''
 At least not yet. Over the summer, foot traffic swelled, attended by a sudden glut of yellow taxis. Many cabs wait outside Zum Schneider, 107 Avenue C (Seventh Street), (212) 598-1098, a Bavarian beer garden with long oak tables and Old World touches. Rugby-size men frequent the bar and on occasion raise their giant mugs of Hofbrau and break into Oktoberfest drinking songs. 
 Another cosmopolitan spot is Baraza, 133 Avenue C (between Eighth and Ninth Streets), (212) 539-0811, a mojito bar packed with dance-happy Brazilians. Many establishments here cater to expatriates. Between Eighth and 10th are an Australian barbie joint, the Sunburnt Cow, 137 Avenue C, (212) 529-0005, with a sort of beach grotto out back; a Middle Eastern lounge, Babel, 131 Avenue C, (212) 505-3468, that serves baba ghanouj with hip-hop and Arabic beats; and Rico, 153 Avenue C, (212) 505-5757, a hookah cafe that resembles a coed harem. (Hookah cafes where food is ''incidental'' can be exempted from the city's smoking ban.) There is even a place called Esperanto, 145 Avenue C, (212) 505-6559, a pan-Latin restaurant with a Left Bank vibe. 
 Of course, this being the East Village, business suits elicit more stares than green mohawks do. But unlike in the dive bars along Avenues A and B, the lounge lizards of C are more likely to sip saketinis than chug a Pabst Blue Ribbon. Raising the style quotient several notches is Bao 111, 111 Avenue C (between Seventh and Eighth Streets), (212) 254-7773, a slick Vietnamese restaurant that draws fashion model types. 
 None of the places, however, rise to the decadence of the World, a multilevel club on Second Street near Avenue C that drew club kids, artists, drag queens and other outcasts in the 1980's. But some spots do turn a blind eye to the city's ban on cigarette smoking. 
 ''C will keep its edginess for five more years,'' predicted Melvina Goren, a partner at Porch, 115 Avenue C (Seventh and Eighth), (212) 982-4034, a candlelit bar known for its large backyard. ''And then the scene will move on to Avenue D.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Sunburnt Cow, an Australian barbie joint in the East Village with patrons in front and a beach grotto out back, is one of a number of bars drawing people to Avenue C. (Photo by Hiroku Masuike for The New York Times)Map of Manhattan highlighting Avenue C.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HEROIN (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); BEER & ALE (76%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (70%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (69%); HIP HOP CULTURE (62%); RAP MUSIC (62%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); SMOKING BANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%); AQUANTIVE INC (58%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



317 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; CHOICE TABLES: SEASIDE, FLA.; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1814 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye Stuffed Flounder, Hello Foie Gras

BYLINE: By JULIA REED

 BODY:
WHEN I was growing up, we spent a few weeks every summer in Destin, Fla., in the heart of what is alternately known as the Emerald Coast and the Redneck Riviera. The state's tourism bureau prefers the first moniker to promote the powdery white sands and the clear blue-green waters of the Gulf of Mexico between Pensacola and Panama City. On the other hand, the Redneck Riviera (which also encompasses the Gulf Coast of Alabama) is the title of a country song by Tom T. Hall that includes the lyric ''Nobody cares if gramma's got a tattoo.''
 My childhood was firmly rooted in the latter. We stayed in a motel called the Frangista Beach by an R.V. park whose denizens caught rays atop their Winnebagos and made hatbands out of Budweiser pop tops, which were in ample supply. When we weren't eating peanut butter and jelly or the crabs we caught ourselves at night, we dined in such ''nice'' restaurants as Captain Anderson's and the Sandflea, where the specialties were deep-fried shellfish and stuffed flounder. My parents bought whiskey at the Green Knight, which featured a giant green knight out front, and took us, on rainy days, to the Gulfarium in Fort Walton Beach. 
 These days the Gulfarium is almost all that's left of the original landscape. Pretty much everything else has been plowed under to make way for high-rise condos and designer discount malls, and my own family has long since decamped 20 miles east to Seaside, the nearly 25-year-old town on Highway 30A that has been hailed as a model for the New Urbanism and served as the set for ''The Truman Show.'' Most recently it has served as home to well-heeled Katrina evacuees from New Orleans and the Mississippi Gulf Coast who had the good sense to head east, and who are also spread out among the many copycat developments, spawned by the success of Seaside, that cover almost the length of 30A. 
 Sprawl in the form of supermarkets and even a cineplex has crept in here, too, of course, and with the temporary new residents, there is more traffic than usual. But height restrictions, a state park that includes a pristine stretch of beach, and the taste level set by Seaside's architects keep the area comparatively civilized. 
 The local culture isn't extinct yet, but a lot of people have traded in their R.V.'s for Lexuses and mill about at wine festivals and outdoor concerts with the likes of Lance Armstrong, who came to charming Grayton Beach (one of the oldest beach communities in the Southeast) with Sheryl Crow just after winning the Tour de France, and Karl Rove, who owns a house in the 10-year-old Rosemary Beach development. Sundog Books in Seaside is excellent, and the Modica Market carries excellent Spanish and Italian olive oils, Cowgirl Creamery cheeses, and wines never seen at the Green Knight -- where the best seller, as I recall, was Boone's Farm Strawberry Hill.
 This is hardly an atmosphere ripe for country music lyrics (though at least one successful Nashville songwriter is a Seaside homeowner), and sometimes I miss the simplicity of our days at the Frangista. But the nostalgia invariably dissipates by lunchtime when my old P.B.&J. is replaced by a dozen Appalachicola oysters on the half shell and a grilled amberjack taco at the Hurricane Oyster Bar in Seaside or a pound of steamed sweet gulf shrimp and a slab of fresh ahi perfect for carpaccio from Goatfeathers Seafood Market in Seagrove. For dinner, I get Charles Modica to cut me one of his marvelous thick rib steaks to throw on the grill, or I venture out to one of 30A's many ''nice'' restaurants, where for the life of me I cannot find a single stuffed flounder.

FISH OUT OF WATER
 The most sophisticated restaurant on the road is Fish out of Water in the beachfront WaterColor Inn, part of the vast WaterColor resort that all but surrounds Seaside. On the hotel's second floor, the restaurant has great views of the gulf, and the decor features lots of blown glass and chic taupe banquettes, but the sense of dislocation is almost too much to bear when I spy Kobe beef short ribs with black truffle grits and seared foie gras with roasted pineapple and mango vanilla gastrique among the appetizers. Am I on the Gulf Coast of Florida or in the Time Warner Center? Who cares when both offerings taste as good as they do. Southerners who think grits need only butter owe it to themselves to try them with black truffles and Kobe beef jus, and the foie gras, dusted with five-spice powder, is sublime. 
 Captain Anderson he ain't, but the chef, Philip Krajek, is smart enough to make the most of local fare. The menu changes almost daily, though I've noticed that the foie gras is rarely absent. Other superb appetizers have included fricassee of grouper cheeks with sweet corn risotto, and tempura-battered squash blossom stuffed with jumbo lump crab in a tomato broth. One night, just as I was bemoaning the demise of my favorite produce stand, he created a salad with the very things I would have bought there: heirloom tomatoes with field peas, sweet corn, fried okra and applewood-smoked bacon. 
 For the main course, I tend to stick with the fish from the waters just outside the window, be it grilled gulf pompano in a saffron vinaigrette, or black grouper in basil broth with artichokes and local potatoes. But the 13-year-old in my group was crazy about the classic filet mignon with bearnaise, and I've been tempted by the pork loin with grilled peaches, roasted fennel and aged balsamic offered frequently. 
 There are souffles cooked to order, but we loved the lavender creme brulee with Florida orange sorbet, and ''new bananas Foster,'' featuring rum-roasted banana, chocolate coffee streusel and caramel ice cream. 
 The wine list is staggering in length and scope and includes a 1999 La Tache, some excellent Brunello di Montalcinos, and a nonvintage Krug, but we managed to keep things relatively down to earth with a white Chateauneuf-du-Pape from Chateau la Nerth, a Kistler chardonnay from Sonoma and my favorite Domaine Serene pinot noir from Oregon.

BASMATI'S ASIAN CUISINE
 When Basmati's Asian Cuisine opened its sushi bar in 1997, it was the first one on 30A, and I think it's still the best. Their Florida roll is a California roll with fresh lump crab from the gulf replacing the tasteless ''crab'' stick, and the Basmati elite roll is a delicious wink at the deep-fried shrimp that were once the staple of Redneck Riviera fine dining: gulf shrimp are rolled with rice in seaweed and then the whole thing is tempura battered and fried.
 As good as the sushi is, there's a full menu that shouldn't be missed. Among the best entrees are the firecracker grouper, tempura battered and fried and accompanied by a spicy sweet-and-sour sauce, and the enormous shrimp in red curry sauce with grilled eggplant. The divine rack of lamb is encrusted with hoisin and sesame seeds and finished with an anise lemon-soy glaze, and the Chinese barbecue duck is a classic.
 In good weather ask to sit under the ceiling fans on the screened porch and start with the spring roll of the day. The short but well-chosen wine list includes some rieslings and viogniers that pair well with the spicy food and a good Gigondas from Feraud-Brunel. Again, for dessert, bananas are the thing, here in the form of a spiced banana spring roll served with ginger ice cream and topped with vanilla creme anglaise and caramel sauce.

CAFE THIRTY-A
 This is where I go when I want a guaranteed good time. The staff is laid-back and friendly but utterly professional, the split-level dining room is open and always buzzing but not too noisy, and the martini menu seems almost as long as the wine list. The chef has an occasional tendency to get overcomplicated, but I am always happy when I keep my choices as simple as my martini, a Bombay Sapphire straight up with an olive. 
 The grilled Georgia quail with creamy grits and sage fritters, a mainstay on the appetizer menu, is by far the best quail dish I've ever had; a newer revelation is the beef carpaccio with Asiago panna cotta and truffle vinaigrette. My favorite salad is the baby arugula with shaved pecorino and lemon garlic vinaigrette, which is perfect in combination with a classic pizza margherita from the oak-fired oven, or one with chicken and roasted peppers, or with the linguine with shellfish, grouper, toasted tomatoes and chorizo. 
 The cumin-crusted grouper with black beans, avocado and corn relish could do without the tangle of multicolored fried tortilla strips on top, but the dish is delicious, as is the grilled rack of lamb with wild mushroom risotto and cabernet sauce. 
 The wine list is especially strong on domestic bottles, including merlots from Etude and Shafer, pinots from Merry Edwards and Cottonwood Canyon, and cabernets from Shafer and Gary Farrell. Yet again, the best dessert is banana based, this time in the form of flaky beignets with homemade macadamia ice cream and a warm caramel sauce.

ONANO NEIGHBORHOOD CAFE
 On the ground floor of a bed-and-breakfast called the Pensione, this Italian outpost is in the vaguely Southwestern Rosemary Beach. Owned by Penny and Mark Dragonette, and named after the Italian town where Mark's grandmother was born, Onano features a Tuscan-inspired menu. 
 It changes frequently, but among the appetizers, an excellent calamari, lightly fried and accompanied by roasted tomato aioli and a fennel, orange and mint salad, appears to be a mainstay, as does the delicious spinach pappardelle with a Bolognese and wild mushroom sauce. But on warm nights, especially at one of the sidewalk tables, I prefer the tagliatelle with shrimp and tomatoes tossed with olive oil, garlic and the wonderful bite of preserved lemon, or the sea scallops with a saffron fumet and lemon risotto. 
 The wine list is less Italian than Californian, but Courtyard Wine and Cheese, which has an impressive range of wines, is practically next door, and Onano will let you bring your own bottle for a $15 corkage fee.

MORE RIVIERA THAN REDNECK
 Several excellent restaurants are on County Highway 30A, or nearby, all within 15 minutes of Seaside, Fla. Meal prices are for three courses for two people without alcohol and tip. 
 Basmati's Asian Cuisine, 3295 West Route 30A, Santa Rosa Beach; (850) 267-3028. Closed Sunday. Sushi bar opens at 4 p.m., main dining room at 5:30. About $75.
 Cafe Thirty-A, 3899 East County Highway 30A, Seagrove Beach; (850) 231-2166, www.cafethirtya.com. Dinner daily from 5:30 p.m. About $90.
 Fish Out of Water, WaterColor Inn, 34 Goldenrod Circle, Seagrove Beach; (850) 534-5050, www.watercolorinn.com/dining.asp. Open daily for dinner. Happy hour at the sushi bar is from 5 to 7 p.m. Dinner from 5:30 p.m. Closed Monday from November to February. About $90. 
 Onano Neighborhood Cafe, 78 Main Street, Rosemary Beach; (850) 231-2436. Closed Sunday and Monday. Dinner from 5:30 p.m. About $90.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fish Out of Water at the WaterColor Inn offers great views and sophisticated cooking. Phillip McDonald, chef at Onano Neighborhood Cafe in Rosemary Beach, with his fennel and black-pepper-crusted sashimi-grade tuna. (Photographs by Phil Sears for The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 A design feature at this upscale restaurant represents sea oats. Basmati's, opened in 1997, was the first sushi place on Route 30A. Beach umbrellas are part of the decor at Cafe Thirty-A. (Photographs by Phil Sears for The New York Times)(pg. 13)Map of Florida highlighting Seaside and other towns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (89%); STATE PARKS (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CRUSTACEANS (72%); HURRICANE KATRINA (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%); FESTIVALS (62%); COUNTRY MUSIC (55%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: KARL ROVE (50%); LANCE ARMSTRONG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENSACOLA, FL, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) GULF OF MEXICO (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



318 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for the Petrodollars to Trickle Down

BYLINE: By Eduardo Porter

 BODY:
REMEMBER petrodollars, those oil riches that sloshed around the world after the price of crude soared in the 1970's and 1980's? Well, they're back.
 As oil prices have charged ahead, the United States and other oil importers have transferred hundreds of billions of dollars to oil exporting countries like Saudi Arabia and Venezuela. What these countries do with their new wealth could have substantial implications for the American economy.
The petrodollar stash is enormous. According to estimates by the International Monetary Fund, oil export revenues of Middle Eastern countries will reach nearly $400 billion this year. 
 On an inflation-adjusted basis, that is double the amount of those revenues in 1980, when oil prices surged after Ayatollah Khomeini came to power in Iran, and more than three times the figure of 1974, when the price of crude spiked after the Arab oil embargo.
 This time around, it's not just Arab countries that are making a lot of money from oil, but also countries like Mexico, Russia and Canada. Ted Carmichael, chief Canadian economist at J.P. Morgan in Toronto, estimates that the 19 big energy exporters will reap $781 billion this year, compared with $549 billion in 2004 and $324 billion in 2002. What ultimately happens to this windfall -- whether oil exporters decide to spend it or salt it away -- will help determine how the pain caused by expensive energy is distributed throughout the American economy and the rest of the world. 
 At first glance, the implications are straightforward. If energy exporters spent the bulk of their newfound treasure on things like new oil exploration gear and fleets of limousines, for instance, much of the money would make a round trip, financing imports from the industrialized oil importing countries from which it came. 
 If, on the other hand, oil exporters saved their stash by, say, building up reserves invested in United States Treasury bonds, they would be effectively draining the money away from investment and consumption in the industrial world, delivering a potentially big blow to demand and employment.
 But there's a twist to the story. Pumping tens of billions of dollars in savings by oil exporters into American government bonds and similar assets would help keep the lid on interest rates in the United States, adding support for the housing market and bolstering consumer spending by already over-stretched Americans. ''Oil exporters could spend the money directly or help others increase spending, for example, by giving loans,'' said Hossein Samiei, head of the commodities unit in the I.M.F.'s research department. 
 So far, oil exporting countries have set much of the money aside. Russia's current account surplus -- the broadest measure of its balance of trade -- will swell to $102 billion from $60 billion last year, the monetary fund says. The surplus in Middle Eastern countries will rise to $218 billion this year from $57 billion in 2003, according to the I.M.F., almost double China's daunting surplus. 
 Economists reckon that this pile of savings has softened the impact of higher oil prices in the industrialized world, helping keep interest rates low. According to the I.M.F., more expensive energy will have only a modest impact on global growth, which should slow slightly to 4.3 percent this year from 5.1 percent in 2004. 
 Still, the situation is fluid. The monetary fund has said that Middle Eastern countries seem more cautious than in the 1970's, when they spent lavishly on public works and made many ultimately unproductive investments. But there are other profligate spenders among oil exporters, places like Venezuela and Nigeria.
 ''Oil exporters have a lot of useful ways to spend the money,'' said Kenneth Rogoff, a professor of public policy at Harvard University and a former chief economist at the I.M.F.
 And the Middle East's apparent frugality may just reflect the difficulty of spending such a large windfall quickly.
 Michael Dooley, an international economist who works as an adviser for Deutsche Bank, said: ''In the past, what has happened is that when oil prices stabilize, oil producers find ways of spending money quickly. There is a lag of a couple of years between the increase in revenues and consumption.''
 Some of the money is already being consumed. For instance, while exports from OPEC members to the United States increased $20 billion in the first seven months of the year compared to 2004, American exports to the nations of OPEC, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, grew $6.5 billion in the same period.
 As more of the oil money is spent, the American economy may be left in a precarious position. Maurice Obstfeld, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, said, ''If oil exporters lower their current account surplus, we will have to reduce our current account deficit.'' 
 This dynamic has a positive side. American exporters will get vibrant markets for their goods and services. But the nasty part is that a reduction in savings will mean higher interest rates. 
 IN the 1970's, Middle Eastern oil kingdoms squandered much of their new wealth. Much of what they saved was recycled via London and New York banks into sovereign loans to Latin American countries, which generally misspent the money, too. This set the stage for a string of financial crises in the 1980's when interest rates rose sharply as monetary policy was tightened to stave off inflation. ''Last time the money was recycled, it was considered a good thing,'' Jeffrey Frankel, a professor of economics at Harvard, said. ''It gave us a debt crisis a few years later.'' 
 This time around, the financial world looks mostly like a safer place. Developing countries in Latin America and beyond are managing their accounts much more prudently. But as the new petrodollars slosh through the global financial system, there remain some weak links, which are likely to suffer after the oil money reaches them. Debt-engorged American consumers and their expensive houses come to mind.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Growth in Petrodollars''Graph tracks net oil export revenue (major exporters) since 2002:AMERICASAFRICAEUROPEMIDDLE EAST(2005 estimated)(Source by J.P. Morgan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); CONSUMPTION (76%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); BONDS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (55%) ONTARIO, CANADA (55%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



319 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Reopening New Orleans: B&B's See a Future

BYLINE: By STEPHEN P. WILLIAMS

 BODY:
WHEN Monique Greenwood and Glenn Pogue bought the New Orleans mansion that was to become Akwaaba in the Bayou bed-and-breakfast, they didn't give a thought to high ground, levees or storms.
 ''If you'd asked, I couldn't have told you the difference between a hurricane and a tornado,'' said Ms. Greenwood, who runs the couple's four Afrocentric bed and breakfasts; the others are in New York, Washington and Cape May, N.J.
Then, less than two months after their grand opening last July, Ms. Greenwood locked up Akwaaba in the Bayou and left New Orleans to ride out Hurricane Katrina at Akwaaba Mansion, her bed-and-breakfast in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn. She expected to return in a few days, but soon found herself preparing for the worst. 
 She wasn't alone. Although New Orleans is home to many well-financed corporate hotels, it's also thick with at least 50 small, single-owner bed-and-breakfasts. These homey inns appeal to travelers who want to connect with the curious local culture and perhaps save money. The lodgings are an integral part of New Orleans that many fear has been threatened by the devastating economic effects of Katrina. 
 The bed-and-breakfasts rarely have more than five or six guest rooms and charge $125 to $250 a night, leaving them particularly vulnerable to the lost income. With bills arriving, no guests in sight and disputes with insurers, prospects for bed-and-breakfasts like Akwaaba can look shaky.
 To Ms. Greenwood, the storm and flood suddenly rendered her house's location in the Bywater neighborhood, just three blocks from the Mississippi River and a quarter mile from the breached Industrial Canal, painful. 
 Several days and much worry later, Mr. Pogue found satellite images online that showed that the floodwaters had stopped just blocks from Akwaaba in the Bayou, which sits 10 feet above sea level, about 25 blocks from the French Quarter. But Mr. Pogue's relief was tempered by the reports of looters, wind damage, fires and mold that dominated the news. At one point, a reporter called and said he had seen a group of men having a pool party and barbecue on their property.
 After several attempts to return to New Orleans were thwarted by new storms and confusing re-entry rules, the couple caught the first commercial JetBlue flight back to the city on Oct. 1. The airport was hushed, and smelled of mildew as Ms. Greenwood and Mr. Pogue collected their bags, one of them weighted down by tools, nails, food, and water.
 At the Budget Rental Car office, a police officer asked Mr. Pogue if he was armed.
 ''No. Should I be?'' said Mr. Pogue.
 Startled but worried that they might have underestimated the potential threat, the couple headed toward New Orleans, hoping to beat the setting sun. Abandoned boats and overturned buses lined the road, but it wasn't until the couple dropped from the freeway down into the city that the devastation became clear, with collapsed buildings, cars on porches and not a single person evident.
 ''It's so desolate; I'm getting anxious,'' said Ms. Greenwood as she swerved to avoid a downed palm tree at Desire Street. She parked in front of Akwaaba in the Bayou and the couple silently surveyed the damage from inside the van. A tree blocked the front steps; the upper porch swing had knocked out a railing; and windows were broken. There were downed trees; a swimming pool full of black water; ruined brickwork; missing roof tiles.
 Inside the graceful, high-ceilinged mansion, everything was basically intact, though rotten apples sat in a bowl, and mosquito larvae swarmed in stagnant water at the bottom of several flower vases.
 They found a note:
 ''Dear Owner, We borrowed a broom from your home. We are located one block up @ the school.'' 
 It was signed: ''The Oregon National Guard.''
 That explained the military Meals Ready to Eat containers littering the sidewalk. It also helped explain why no one had broken in, and why, despite the officer's warnings, their neighborhood felt safe, if empty. ''I feel really fortunate,'' said Mr. Pogue.
 Akwaaba fared better than some other New Orleans bed-and-breakfasts. Bougainvillea House, in the French Quarter, suffered roof damage and a downed wall. The 17 tortoises the owners had tended since the 1950's, survived, but a collection of 30 bonsai trees died along with the income from the house's two suites. Like other establishments, Bougainvillea House has had to refund deposits made on reservations that now can't be honored. 
 THE 1896 O'Malley House, in the Mid-City neighborhood, was flooded with more than a foot of water, and the owners, Brad Smith and Larry Watts, said they would have to replace all the sheetrock, redo the wiring and buy seven new condensers for their central air-conditioning.
 Though most banks are giving a three-month grace period for mortgage payments, after that time missed payments must be paid in full. ''It gives you a knot in the pit of your stomach,'' said Mr. Smith, of the 1896 O'Malley House, echoing the feelings of many innkeepers.
 ''I don't think we'll see tourists for the next few months,'' said Susan Smith, of B and B Inc., which handles reservations for about 20 New Orleans establishments. 
 She says that so far, no bed-and-breakfasts have closed for good. Many are hoping to house journalists, disaster workers, insurance adjusters or employees of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. ''Most of the owners seem enthusiastic,'' said Ms. Smith, ''even with all the unknowns.''
 Ms. Greenwood and Mr. Pogue pondered a big unknown -- where's the electricity? -- over candlelight on their first night back. Later, they drove to the French Quarter, which had electricity, looking for food. A few sex clubs and live-music bars gave life to the depressed atmosphere along Bourbon Street, which smelled of trash and sewage. The innkeepers ordered sandwiches at the venerable Clover Grill, where a man ate at the counter with a large pistol strapped to his thigh. Out the window, a Humvee full of National Guardsmen passed, trailed by a built-up swamp buggy carrying a load of off-duty disaster workers, some sipping chartreuse-colored cocktails called Horny Alligators. Nearby, a young couple were kissing next to an overflowing garbage can. Ms. Greenwood and Mr. Pogue cited the bizarre confluence of disaster and drunken celebration as evidence that the crazy city they love would definitely return.
 Back at Akwaaba, they got out their flashlights and headed for bed. The mansion was stifling because the doors and windows were shut to keep mosquitoes out, and without electricity, the air-conditioning was only a memory. In the morning, the couple bathed in cold tap water, hoping that it wasn't contaminated. 
 The couple heard an engine outside. As if sent from heaven, a contractor from Wyoming named Scott Hagy appeared from out of the blue with a truck full of tools. He offered to help with the pressing repairs and the cleanup at Akwaaba. By the next morning, all the debris had been cut up and piled at curbside, and a few cars were seen on the street, as a trickle of locals returned home to see what they had lost. Mr. Pogue had covered the broken windows with plastic and plywood, and Ms. Greenwood had cleaned the patio and porches. They made arrangements with Mr. Hagy to cover the damaged roof with blue plastic, drain the pool and make other repairs in the coming days. 
 For now, the innkeepers had to return to Brooklyn to attend to their small bed-and-breakfast business. They planned to return within two weeks to complete the cleanup. And as soon as the electricity came on, they would start trying to fill their rooms.
 ''I am blessed,'' Ms. Greenwood said as she headed to the airport. Much of the city hadrecently been plastered with mysterious graffiti reading ''Voodoo today here now 5.'' But Ms. Greenwood didn't feel hexed.
 ''I think everything is going to be O.K.,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Glen Pogue and Monique Greenwood returned to their New Orleans bed-and-breakfast, below, after Hurricane Katrina to find a tree blocking the front entrance, above. (Photo by Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BED & BREAKFAST INNS (95%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); RIVERS (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); MOLDS & FUNGI (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (51%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



320 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 3; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3825 words

HEADLINE: Belgrade ROCKS

BYLINE: By SETH SHERWOOD. 
SETH SHERWOOD is a freelance writer based in Paris.

 BODY:
NIGHT falls in the capital of the former Yugoslavia, and music fills the air. Everywhere. 
 Along the banks of the Danube and Sava Rivers, serpentine chains of music-blasting splavovi -- floating raft clubs -- snake into the inky Balkan night. Fortified by huge meat-kebab dinners and Turkish coffees from Belgrade's myriad cafes, crowds of night owls line up to partake variously of Gypsy bands, electronic mixes, rock 'n' roll and a distinctly Serbian hybrid known as Turbofolk.
As a parade of Puma-clad feet files down the metal gangway to a club called Exile, the night's marquee D.J., the New York City-based techno producer John Selway, prepares for his 2-to-6 a.m. set. 
 ''The most fun places to play are here, South America and Japan!'' he shouts over rapid-fire industrial beats, praising the energy of the night life in the capital of Serbia and Montenegro, the name for what is left of Yugoslavia after its unraveling in the early 90's. ''They're interested in new music and in building a scene!'' 
 Across the water, the lighted dome of St. Sava Church and illuminated stone walls of the centuries-old Kalemegdan Fortress hover over the capital's skyline. Just six years ago, during 78 days of NATO bombings intended to quell President Slobodan Milosevic's attacks on ethnic Albanians in the nation's Kosovo province, that same panorama exploded routinely in flame and debris. 
 This night, with Mr. Milosevic on trial in The Hague and Belgrade's doors open to the West, it's only the lights from Exile's open-air dance floor that flash in the night sky. The club's thudding sound system, not bombs, sends ripples through the river. 
 ''I was here in the 1990's, the Dark Ages,'' says Dean Triantafilou, a Baltimore native, as he leads some fellow Americans to dine in Skadarska, the city's old bohemian quarter. He worked to resettle refugees after the 1991-95 civil wars that shattered Yugoslavia, and now leads tours to Belgrade. ''People were selling gas in Coke bottles,'' he says of those years. ''If you didn't spend your dinars in two hours, they were worthless,'' because of hyperinflation. 
 As he talks, girls in short skirts and high-heeled sandals wobble up the teeming cobbled street. The nostalgic minor-chord strains of Frank Sinatra's ''My Way'' float from the hands of an outdoor pianist, whose earnest airs collide with techno music blasting from a nearby lounge called Red Bar. 
 ''Now look,'' Mr. Triantafilou says. ''There's light, there's people. They're ready to party.''
 This November, it will be 10 years since the Dayton Accords ended the vicious ethnic war in neighboring Bosnia, and it has been five years since Serbia's ''October Revolution'' -- when thousands of protesters flooded Belgrade's squares, burned the Parliament building and forced Mr. Milosevic to abdicate his stranglehold on a country that he had plunged into violence, economic ruin and international isolation. But Belgrade's 1.5 million residents are still waiting for the world to show up.
 Consider, for example, what the Serbia and Montenegro chapter in Fodor's latest ''Eastern and Central Europe'' guidebook says about Belgrade: nothing. There is no such chapter. Ditto for ''Rick Steve's Best of Eastern Europe 2005,'' which gives no travel information on the city and offers only a cursory sketch of the nation's history. The book's maps mysteriously end at the Bosnian and Croatian borders, with only empty whiteness beyond. 
 Such omissions, alas, are nothing new. Recalling his misguided prejudices before his visit to Belgrade in 1937, Henry Andrews, the husband of the British journalist and consummate Balkan chronicler Rebecca West, remarked to his wife: ''I had always thought of Belgrade then as the Viennese see it. As the end of the earth, as a barbarian village.'' It was scarcely just the Viennese. 
 West did more than anyone before or since to dispel such illusions and to fill in the blank maps of Balkan life and history. Her magisterial tome ''Black Lamb and Grey Falcon: A Journey Through Yugoslavia,'' published in 1941 and including her husband's reaction to Belgrade, remains the definitive travelogue about the region and your best travel companion in the city. Treading streets lined with mysterious Cyrillic signs, passing the venerable Art Nouveau exterior of the Hotel Moskva, gazing at the sad-eyed Byzantine saints of the Orthodox Cathedral of St. Michael the Archangel, you can still see Belgrade as West did. 
 Then, as now, Old World restaurants impressed with succulent peasant-style masterpieces (''they cook lamb and suckling pig as well as anywhere in the world,'' she wrote). Then, as now, the city was full of passionate, vigorous people ''who speak and laugh and eat and drink a great deal.'' And then, as now, Belgrade sagged under the weight of its history. Suffused throughout it, West observed, was ''the stench of empires.'' 
 It was not a poetic exaggeration. For more than a millennium, the city squirmed in the crosshairs of its hostile neighbors: Byzantines, Bulgars, Hungarians, Austrians and especially Ottoman Turks, who conquered Belgrade in 1521 and administered it ruthlessly for most of the next three centuries. Together and separately, those powers battled each other and their Serbian subjects in a round-robin of hatred and cannon fire. 
 In 1941, just after West's Balkan travels, the Nazi Luftwaffe swooped into the city with more than 900 planes, leveling half of its buildings on a single day in April. Mr Milosevic's deadly campaign in Kosovo -- he is charged with genocide -- brought in the bombers once again, this time NATO's. Seven decades after West composed her lines, her description of Serbia as ''a new country that has to make its body and soul,'' seems as valid as ever. 
 One wonders what she would say of the post-Milosevic period. Unemployment remains rife. The former Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, a reformist who was instrumental in sending Mr. Milosevic to face trial in The Hague, was assassinated in 2003. Nationalist, anti-Western parties still enjoy support, and foreign governments have accused Serbia of dragging its feet in rounding up fugitive war criminals from the conflict in Bosnia. 
 On the other hand, the nation has a progressive democratic president in Boris Tadic, a firm handle on the once-ravaging inflation problem and increasing foreign investments. ''Airport City Belgrade!'' shouts a huge sign next to a construction site on the highway just outside the city. ''First Business Park in Serbia!''
 Five years after the ouster of Mr. Milosevic, says Veran Matic, a journalist instrumental in the anti-Milosevic campaign and a founder of the B92 independent media group, Belgraders teeter between cynicism and ''a kind of hidden hope and a belief in Serbia's wondrous resurrection.'' 
 While the streets of post-Milosevic Belgrade may not win a beauty contest anytime soon -- rusty trams, drab midcentury buildings and stately but dilapidated 19th-century edifices still dominate the gray cityscape -- some glimmerings of the resurrection that Mr. Matic sees are in evidence. In Republic Square, where the ocean of demonstrators and flag-wavers made their most passionate stand against Mr. Milosevic, construction teams are busy renovating the grand National Museum. Green Wreath Square, where the main outdoor market normally operates, is getting a similar makeover. 
 State-run Communist-era hotels are being privatized and boutique hotels like the smart, crisp Petit Piaf have begun to appear. Style-conscious restaurants, once unheard of in a land of pork-and-potato places, proliferate.
 But it's the electricity of Belgrade's street life that makes the greatest impression. ''Belgrade,'' Mr. Matic says, ''is a very exciting city for anyone who expects to feel pure human energy.'' 
 You feel it along Knez Mihailova, a boulevard of fountains and Art Nouveau details where streams of D&G-wearing women strut past showrooms of Italian furniture, and preadolescent Gypsy musicians thrill the passing throngs with virtuoso fiddling. You feel it within the narrow passages of the Kalenic outdoor market on Njegoseva Street, as neighborhood residents shout ''Koliko? Koliko?'' (''How much? How much?) at the phalanx of elderly women in headscarves selling all manner of sausages, produce, nuts, dates, batteries, hair dye, sweaters, rice and deodorant. 
 You feel it especially in crowded Kalemegdan Park, a green swath overlooking the confluence of the Sava and Danube Rivers that West called ''the special glory of Belgrade and indeed one of the most beautiful parks in the world.'' Formerly the citadel of Belgrade, Kalemegdan was long the bull's-eye that foreign invaders variously charged, captured, built up and eventually lost. The Roman well, the Turkish mausoleum, the Austrian clock tower and other abandoned relics form an Ozymandian graveyard of vanished dynasties. 
 But come dark, a number of outdoor bars and nightclubs sprout in the recesses of the park, and the cemetery of empires is reborn as the booming, cocktail-soaked cradle of Belgrade decadence. 
 ''Anywhere else in the world, you wouldn't be allowed to have something like this in a historical monument,'' a bearded film student says one night at Bassment, a club that operates against the Kalemegdan battlements in warm months. ''Not Belgrade.'' 
 A German D.J. duo called Moonbootica has the crowd jumping up and down to electronic music on ground that may once have seen battles for the city's soul. 
 Like Kalemegdan, the rest of the White City -- the literal translation of its Serbian name, Beograd -- reaches the zenith of its energy at night. Propelled by some of Europe's cheapest cocktails and taxi rides, the after-dark adventurer discovers that the surprisingly friendly and safe terra incognita of Belgrade holds a bounty of hidden hipster speakeasies, raucous rock 'n' roll dives and nightclubs boasting global talent. 
 Pick up the glossy entertainment magazine Yellow Cab at the slick bilevel Tribeca bar (Belgraders like to imagine their city as the Slavic counterpart to New York) and you find page after page of listings for exhibitions, theater events, concerts and club nights. If the great Yugoslav unifier Tito staggered from his hillside tomb, he'd find himself in the Continent's last great undiscovered night-life scene.
 On a late fall evening, some weekending Britons follow a muffled electronic beat through an undistinguished door along Boulevard Novembra 29, descend a poorly lighted staircase and emerge in a basement bar stuffed with ugly oil paintings, retro-tacky lamps and other vintage touches. To judge from the decor, it's likely that there's a grandmother in some remote Balkan corner filling out a burglary report. The name of the bar, the Association of Globe-Trotters, seems fitting: Only the most motivated travelers can hope to discover it. 
 ''This place you can only find if somebody brings you here,'' says the bartender, Dejan, serving up bottles of Montenegrin Niksicko Beer and explaining that the owners want to limit the establishment's clientele to loyal cognoscenti. The country's prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica, has been known to stop in, he adds. 
 The secret bar phenomenon is very much a trend in Belgrade. Some, like the aptly named nightclub Andergraund, occupy subterranean spaces in Kalemegdan Park. Others, like the cocktail lounge Ben Akiba -- where a lively crowd of people in their 30's toasts ''Ziveli'' amid loud disco and funk -- are concealed in private apartments. 
 ''Where are all the people between 2 and 6 a.m.?'' playfully asks the online entertainment site Belgradeinsideout.com, one of the rare English-language guides to the city. ''They are probably hiding in some places where you can't find them.''
 Near Slavija Square on a Friday night, however, ranks of splendidly grimy music fans emerge from the woodwork to follow the buzz-saw sound of melodic punk rock reverberating from the outdoor stage of SKC, the CBGB of Belgrade. The every-punk-and-his-mother crowd arrives by the hundreds, chugging Lav Pivo (Lion Beer) from two-liter bottles. Two unshowered rock chicks in Converse high-tops carry a friend who has passed out and lies horizontally in their arms like a drunken log. These are the apostles of the elder statesmen of Belgrade's rock universe, the Partibrejkers. 
 For a place that has suffered as many privations and embargoes as Belgrade -- where rock was a key opposition force during the lean Milosevic years -- the locals exhibit musical knowledge as extensive as anywhere in the West. Scanning the rack of top-selling albums at the IPS music emporium, you find the White Stripes, Audioslave and other bands that grace top music magazines in America and Britain.
 ''They're remarkably well-informed,'' says Nick Hobbs, a concert promoter who has brought Kraftwerk, the MC5, John Spencer Blues Explosion and other staples of American vinyl junkies to Belgrade in recent years. ''We can do things in Belgrade that we can't do anywhere else.'' 
 The result is a fertile musical landscape full of acts that would probably be alt-rock icons in countries with better record companies and higher disposable incomes: the hard-driving Lira Vega; the indie-electronic Darkwood Dub; the subversive sonic experimenter Rambo Amadeus. 
 On stage, the Partibrejkers tear through a succession of Stooges-meets-Kiss anthems while the throng pumps its fists and yells ''Oh, Yeah!'' Having endured more than two decades of the vicissitudes of their homeland -- the post-Tito comedown, the wars of the 1990's, the economic and political uncertainty under the new leaders -- the Partibrejkers are perhaps one more inspiring symbol of Belgraders' endurance. ''When you have a strong link to the source of life,'' the group's guitarist, Nebojsa Antonijevic, said before the show, referring to his passion for music, ''the outer situation can't deter you.'' 
 As the final number ends and people start to shuffle out over hills of crushed beer cans, the lead singer, Zoran Kostic, leans into the mike and offers a final message: ''Sacuvajte svoje duse'' (''Save your souls'').
 Punk rock fades to club beats the next evening as a slew of international D.J.'s hits town. While Mr. Selway presides over the turntables along the Sava at Exile, the Israeli trance-music guru D.J. Goblin spins to a sea of bobbing heads at the Baratuna club, and the Shapeshifters, British house-music masters, conjure their mixes at Bassment. 
 But it's the quiet, historical neighborhood of Zemun that plays host to the weekend's -- and the season's -- splashiest night-life event. There, as black S.U.V.'s idle outside, a flashbulb-popping crowd of the nation's most famous faces -- soccer heroes, music idols, captains of industry -- celebrates the opening of a swanky bar-restaurant called Eklektika. With its gauzy white rooms and ambient music, it feels like the sort of place where the ''Sex and the City'' quartet might schmooze -- if their names were Jadranka, Desanka, Zoja and Kaja. But in spite of the sushi rolls and Slovenian wine, at least one V.I.P. is hiding out in a private room and waxing slightly nostalgic tonight. 
 ''It used to be a positive thing to be a Yugoslav,'' says Dan Tana, the Serb-American whose namesake Hollywood restaurant is a favorite film-star hangout, with a sigh. ''Milosevic did more damage to Serbs than Hitler did to the Germans.''
 His somber remarks, at first, seem to have sprungfrom the same undercurrent of wistfulness that West found so many decades earlier. ''Autumnal doubtfulness,'' she eloquently called the mood. 
 Then, suddenly, Mr. Tana's face lightens. Just outside the door, ringing cellphones, clinking glasses and greetings of ''dobro vece!'' (''good evening!'') filter through the soft-glowing, milk-white rooms. 
 ''But I've brought many Americans to Belgrade, and they all fall in love,'' Mr. Tana goes on, passionately. ''Our future is bright, but it's going to take time.''

In Serbia and Montenegro, the Kids Are Alright and Partying All Night

GETTING THERE
 Visas are no longer required for American citizens traveling to Serbia and Montenegro for up to 90 days. 
 While there are no direct flights from the United States to Belgrade, several European carriers fly there. A recent Web search for round trips from New York in late October found a wide range of fares, starting at $535 on Lufthansa through Frankfurt, but with most over $800.

GETTING AROUND
 At the airport, avoid the renegades approaching you with ''taxi?'' come-ons since legitimate cabs must be called (and should cost about 600 dinars -- about $8.50 at 73 dinars to the dollar). But the JAT airline bus, which you can catch on the curb just outside the terminal doors and a bit to the left, costs 140 dinars and leaves the airport every hour on the hour. It stops at the central rail station and at Slavija Square, where taxis are easy to find and many hotels are within walking distance.
 Central Belgrade is fairly compact, so walking to key points of interest will rarely take more than a half hour, and often less. City taxis are abundant, cheap and well-metered, and can be hailed in the street or at major hotels and squares. Rides around central Belgrade should run 150 to 200 dinars. A trip to the popular raft-clubs along the Danube and Sava Rivers costs around 250 to 350 dinars. 
 Taxi drivers may or may not speak English (you can ask them with a well-rehearsed ''Da li govorite Engleski?''), so it's always best to take a marked map or a written address for the driver. A list of taxi companies and other useful information can be found at the Web site of the Tourist Organization of Belgrade, www.tob.co.yu.

WHERE TO STAY
 With the few noted exceptions, dial 381-11 before the numbers below from outside Serbia and Montenegro. Hotels often quote prices in euros, but not necessarily. 
 Le Petit Piaf, Skadarska 34, 303-5252, www.petitpiaf.com, was opened last year in the heart of Belgrade's small but lovely (and lively) old bohemian quarter. This pioneering boutique hotel offers 12 sleek, modern rooms and suites with phones and high-speed Internet access -- a local rarity. A good breakfast is included in the room rates, which start at 150 euros ($183, at $1.22 to the euro).
 Hotel Moskva, Balkanska 1, 2686-255, www.hotelmoskva.co.yu, occupies a stately Art Nouveau building that is one of Belgrade's most recognizable landmarks. Equipped with TV's and phones, the 132 rooms themselves are unexceptional, as is the included breakfast. Doubles from 136 euros.
 Garni Hotel Splendid, Dragoslava Jovanovica 5, 323-5444, www.splendid.co.yu, is a good budget option in central Belgrade, if you can handle the dated 1970's feel. The 40 simple, clean rooms have TV's and phones. There's also a restaurant and bar on the premises. Doubles from $58.

WHERE TO EAT
 Daco, Patrisa Lumumbe 49, 278-1009, attracts a crowd with its ersatz rustic environment -- raw wood-plank floors, exposed beams, farmhouse knickknacks-- and huge portions of sopska salata (diced cucumbers, peppers and cheese) and hajducki cevap (pork kebabs) backed with rakija (fruit brandy). Dinner for two, without drinks, is around 2,000 dinars.
 Zaplet, Kajmakcalanska 2, 240-4142, is a beautifully designed contemporary space with large windows, lots of right angles and muted fabrics. The extensive menu features appetizers like grilled goat cheese with red pepper and caper salsa, and entrees like filet mignon with gorgonzola-hazelnut butter. Dinner for two runs about 2,500 dinars, without drinks.
 Tribeca, Knez Mihailova 50, 328-5656, is a strikingly modern and aggressively stylish restaurant-lounge with its own CD of club music (''Tribeca Chill-Out''). You can enjoy the grilled, bacon-wrapped chicken filled with prosciutto, mozzarella and sweet peppers, then stay for cocktails. Dinner for two runs 2,200 dinars, and cocktails 350 dinars. 

WHERE TO DRINK
 Ben Akiba, Nusiceva 8, 323-7775, is a lively cocktail lounge hidden in a second-floor apartment roughly across Terazije Street from the Hotel Moskva. Go to the end of Nusiceva, turn right and look for the apartment stairs to the left. 
 Club of World Travelers (Udruzenje Svetskih Putnika), 29 Novembra 7, 324-2303, is yet another of Belgrade's many hip, hidden bars. Enter this quiet residential building, go to the end of the lobby and descend the stairs to the right.
 Idiot, Dalmatinska 13, no phone, attracts Belgrade's alternative set -- musicians, artists, self-styled hipsters and a smattering of gays and lesbians. This indoor-outdoor bar fills the street in summer and packs its brick-vault basement when the weather gets cool.

WHERE TO DANCE
 In summer, the banks of the Danube and the Sava are lined with splavovi -- nightclubs on rafts -- featuring everything from Gypsy bands to electronic music to a distinctly Serbian mixture of sentimental lyrics and disco beats called Turbofolk. Many places charge no cover, or at most 5 or 10 euros.
 One of the top spots for imported D.J. talent is Exile, Savski Kej, (381-63) 205-545, which sits along the west bank of the Sava. 
 True to its name, Andergraund, Pariska 1a, 625-681, www.andergraund.com, is a subterranean den of decadence near the southwestern corner of Kalemegdan Park for house, funk, R&B and hip-hop devotees.
 Around the corner and down the hill from Andergraund, at Karadjordjeva 9, is Bar Balthazar, (381-63) 706-3302, which opened in September. A nondescript doorway, guarded by bouncers, leads to a staircase down to the brick-roofed basement. Despite the name, Balthazar is more club than bar, with thundering house and techno beats.

WHERE TO ROCK
 Akademija, Rajiceva 10, 262-7846, www.akademija.net, is a longtime favorite rock 'n' roll dive for top local talent.
 SKC (Student Cultural Center) at the corner of Kralja Milana and Resavska Streets, 360-2000, www.skc.org.yu, features major bands not only from the Balkans but also from the rest of Europe and North America on indoor and outdoor stages. It also puts on art exhibitions, films and other cultural events.
 Dom Omladine (Belgrade Youth Cultural Center), Makedonska 22/IV, 324-8202, www.dob.co.yu. is a top spot for touring bands and bigger names from Belgrade.

SIGHTSEEING
 Kalemegdan Park, at the confluence of the Sava and Danube Rivers, is Belgrade's most beautiful green space. It is where the Romans, Byzantines and subsequent early settlers of the area once lived. The park houses a zoo, military museum and numerous centuries-old structures left by the various powers -- Serbian, Austrian, Turkish -- that occupied and controlled Belgrade in later eras.
 Museum of Contemporary Art, Usce Save BB, Novi Beograd, 311-5713, www.msub.org.yu, sits just across the Sava in New Belgrade. It displays Yugoslav art since 1900. The current exhibition, ''On Normality: Art in Serbia 1989-2001,'' looking at responses to the Milosevic years, runs through Nov. 7. SETH SHERWOOD


CORRECTION-DATE: October 30, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article in this section on Oct. 16 about Belgrade misstated the name of the Bohemian quarter. It is Skadarlija; Skadarska, from which it is derived, is the name of the street that borders the section.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fireworks were part of a celebration in July at the Kalemegdan Fortress. above Tribeca is a slick new restaurant and lounge in the old city. below The National Museum in Republic Square, where partying has replaced protests. (Photo by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)
(Photo by Seth Sherwood for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
The Real McKenzies, a Canadian group, played SKC last month
Andergraund, a subterranean dance club
opening night at Bar Balthazar. (Photographs by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Ben Akiba is one of a number of lounges that have opened in apartments. Knez Mihailova is lined with Art Nouveau buildings and Italian fashion shops. (Photographs by Panos Pictures)
(Photo by Darko Vojinovic/Associated Press)
 The Hotel Moskva remains a landmark of the old city in Belgrade. (Photo by Patrick Horton/Lonely Planet Images)(pg. 11)Map of Belgrade highlighting points of interest. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (76%); CANADA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



321 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: October 16, 2005

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1		1	A BREATH OF SNOW AND ASHES, by Diana Gabaldon. (Delacorte, $28.) In 1772, the British governor of North Carolina asks Jamie to support the king, but Jamie's time-traveling wife assures him independence is inevitable; an Outlander novel.		 	 	 	2		1	SON OF A WITCH, by Gregory Maguire. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $26.95.) Liir makes his way through the dangerous land of Oz; a sequel to ''Wicked.''		 	 	 	3		1	SCHOOL DAYS, by Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $24.95.) A woman hires Spenser to prove that her grandson wasn't involved in a school shooting.		 	 	 	4	4	2	THE MARCH, by E. L. Doctorow. (Random House, $25.95.) The story of Sherman's sweep through the South and the lives he left in his wake.		 	 	 	5	2	2	GOODNIGHT NOBODY, by Jennifer Weiner. (Atria, $26.) An unhappy suburban mother gains her independence by investigating a murder.		 	 	 	6		1	THE DIVIDE, by Nicholas Evans. (Putnam, $26.95.) How did a fugitive eco-terrorist end up dead in a frozen Montana creek?		 	 	 	7*	5	3	ON BEAUTY, by Zadie Smith. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) Personal and cultural battles between two academic families.		 	 	 	8	1	2	ANANSI BOYS, by Neil Gaiman. (Morrow, $26.95.) After his father dies, Fat Charlie learns that Dad led a secret life as a trickster god.		 	 	 	9	3	133	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	10	7	16	THE HISTORIAN, by Elizabeth Kostova. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) A young woman's quest to learn the truth about her father's life and her mother's death involves research into Vlad the Impaler and Dracula. 		 	 	 	11		1	GABRIEL'S ANGEL, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $17.95.) On a snowy night in Colorado, a man saves a stranded pregnant woman and joins her custody battle after falling in love.		 	 	 	12	6	5	THE WIDOW OF THE SOUTH, by Robert Hicks. (Warner, $24.95.) After the Battle of Franklin in 1864, a Tennessee woman turns over her plantation to Confederate troops for use as a hospital -- and also as a cemetery.		 	 	 	13	9	4	LIPSTICK JUNGLE, by Candace Bushnell. (Hyperion, $24.95.) Three women struggle to balance their high-powered jobs and their messy home lives.		 	 	 	14	8	5	POLAR SHIFT, by Clive Cussler with Paul Kemprecos. (Putnam, $26.95.) Kurt Austin must contend with the leader of an antiglobalization group who possesses technology that has the potential to destroy all of humanity.		 	 	 	15	11	2	FRIENDS, LOVERS, CHOCOLATE, by Alexander McCall Smith. (Pantheon, $21.95.) A heart transplant patient enlists Isabel's help investigating the possible murder of his donor; a Sunday Philosophy Club novel.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1		1	THE CITY OF FALLING ANGELS, by John Berendt. (Penguin, $25.95.) The author of ''Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil investigates a fire in Venice.		 	 	 	2	1	26	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization trends.		 	 	 						 	 	 	3	3	25	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar applies economic thinking to everything from sumo wrestlers who cheat to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	4		1	WHAT REMAINS, by Carole Radziwill. (Scribner, $25.95.) A memoir of a suburban girl who grew up to marry a prince (a Kennedy nephew) who died young.		 	 	 	5	2	19	1776, by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster, $32.) An account of America's founding year by the Pulitzer Prize-winning author, focusing on the inexperienced George Washington and heroic citizen soldiers. 		 	 	 	6	4	38	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	7		1	PHENOMENON, by Sylvia Browne with Lindsay Harrison. (Dutton, $24.95.) A guide to the paranormal from a self-described psychic.		 	 	 	8	5	4	THE TENDER BAR, by J. R. Moehringer. (Hyperion, $23.95.) A coming-of-age memoir of a fatherless boy for whom the regulars at a Long Island saloon become a substitute family.		 	 	 	9*	7	2	NEVER HAVE YOUR DOG STUFFED, by Alan Alda. (Random House, $24.95.) A memoir by the television, movie and Broadway actor.		 	 	 	10		1	COMING HOME TO MYSELF, by Wynonna Judd with Patsi Bale Cox. (New American Library/Penguin, $25.95.) From a poor Kentucky childhood to superstardom: a memoir by the country music singer.		 	 	 	11		1	SYMPTOMS OF WITHDRAWAL, by Christopher Kennedy Lawford. (Morrow, $25.95.) The son of Peter Lawford and Patricia Kennedy, a Washington and Hollywood insider, recalls his substance abuse and recovery.		 	 	 	12	11	9	THE FAIRTAX BOOK, by Neal Boortz and John Linder. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A radio talk show host and a United States congressman call for the abolishment of the federal income tax and the I.R.S.		 	 	 	13	8	13	100 PEOPLE WHO ARE SCREWING UP AMERICA, by Bernard Goldberg. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) The author of ''Bias'' takes aim at ''Hollywood blowhards,'' ''America bashers,'' rappers and others.		 	 	 	14	10	4	BAIT AND SWITCH, by Barbara Ehrenreich. (Metropolitan/Holt, $24.) The author of ''Nickel and Dimed'' explores the world of white-collar job hunting.		 	 	 	15		3	THE GAME, by Neil Strauss. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $29.95.) A writer spends two years among pickup artists.		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Oct. 1, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.
Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest
THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING, by Joan Didion. (Knopf, $23.95.) A powerful, persuasive account of the crisis of mortality after the sudden death of the author's husband.
 CURSE OF THE NARROWS, by Laura M. Mac Donald. (Walker, $26.) A wrenching, detailed account of the 1917 explosion that destroyed Halifax, Nova Scotia, and killed nearly 2,000 people.
 GOING SANE: Maps of Happiness, by Adam Phillips. (Fourth Estate/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A psychoanalytic unraveling of what it is to be not mad in a culture that romanticizes madness.
 MISSING MOM, by Joyce Carol Oates. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $25.95.) This novel peers into the void left by a woman's sudden absence.
 NEW YORK BURNING: Liberty, Slavery, and Conspiracy in 18th-Century Manhattan, by Jill Lepore. (Knopf, $26.95.) In 1741, the city, dreading revolt, executed 30 slaves and 4 whites. 
 AMERICA AND THE CHALLENGES OF RELIGIOUS DIVERSITY, by Robert Wuthnow. (Princeton University, $29.95.) A sociologist examines America's remarkable religious civility.
 THE LAST DAYS OF DOGTOWN, by Anita Diamant. (Scribner, $25.)A novel that follows the decline and death of an unpromising village. 
 THIRD GIRL FROM THE LEFT, by Martha Southgate. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) A novel inhabited by three generations of headstrong, movie-loving black women in Los Angeles.
 READING, WRITING, AND LEAVING HOME: Life on the Page, by Lynn Freed. (Harcourt, $22.) An accomplished memoir about life and fiction and how the author has handled both.
 OUR INNER APE: A Leading Primatologist Explains Why We Are Who We Are, by Frans de Waal. (Riverhead, $24.95.) De Waal addresses the similarities between humans and their closest relatives, bonobos and chimpanzees.
 EDGE OF EMPIRE: Lives, Culture, and Conquest in the East, 1750-1850, by Maya Jasanoff. (Knopf, $27.95.) A historian rethinks imperialism and the inauspicious seeds it grew from.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); WOMEN (75%); FAMILY (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); SHOOTINGS (69%); HISTORY (65%); MURDER (54%); ECOTERRORISM (52%); GLOBALIZATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DAN BROWN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



322 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; HABITATS/Upper East Side; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Planning A Renovation From Sea To Shining Sea

BYLINE: By JOANNE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
THE phone in Jody Cukier Siegler's Brentwood, Calif., home rang a few Wednesdays ago at precisely 5:30 a.m. It was a dispatcher from the Greyhound office at the Port Authority bus terminal in Manhattan. 
 A package was waiting there for her. Did she want to pick it up or make arrangements for delivery to the Upper East Side address on the mailing label? And by the way, lady, only cash is accepted.
 During the first wave of such predawn wake-up calls, Ms. Siegler's understandable reaction was that someone near and dear was dead or dying. Now she knows better. Odds are it is FedEx or U.P.S., or even more likely, the superintendent of the one-bedroom Fifth Avenue pied-a-terre she and her husband, Scott, bought last December. 
 Typical scenarios: the antique bookcase from France just arrived and won't fit into the freight elevator. What should he do? (Walk it up nine flights, please.) The mirror from Domain just showed up. It won't fit into the freight elevator either. (Send it back -- a command Ms. Siegler now wishes she could rescind.) 
 The Greyhound call was about bookshelves, and she arranged for the money to be left with the doorman.
 ''It's hard to deal with this when I'm not yet caffeinated,'' said Ms. Siegler, 47, a preternaturally energetic design and construction consultant. 
 A Long Island native, she left the area for college (Harvard), returned for two years to work at a Manhattan ad agency, left again to get an M.B.A. (Harvard), then moved to Los Angeles for a job in the movie business. 
 She eventually married, and has a stepson, Matthew, 22, and a daughter, Julia, 9.
 Despite her lush life in California, ''I maintained a long-distance love affair with the city and kept trying to think of ways to be here for a greater period of time,'' Ms. Siegler said. ''I would create vacation plans in New York, and I would rent apartments rather than stay in hotels. I didn't really want to raise my daughter to be Eloise.''
 Mr. Siegler didn't share his wife's anti-hostelry bias. The head of West Coast operations for ZelnickMedia, a New York-based investment firm, he was commuting to Manhattan monthly, he said, and ''was happy in the Melrose Hotel with its gym.'' But, he conceded, ''I was getting tired of dragging my underwear and suits cross-country.''
 Ms. Siegler, who tailed the architect and contractor when she and her husband built their Brentwood house -- ''It was my case study,'' she said -- and supervised the renovation on their Malibu beach house, subsequently bought, renovated and flipped a boxy midcentury three-bedroom Brentwood property just two miles from home. 
 ''After I turned it around, I thought I'd do another real estate investment in the area,'' she said. But with nothing close by in her price range, ''I started acquainting myself with the real estate market in New York and found that some of the finest addresses in Manhattan were more economical than a fixer-upper in Mar Vista,'' she said, referring to a middle-class section of Los Angeles. ''And flying across the country seemed easier than coping with Los Angeles traffic conditions.''
 Ms. Siegler went on a few Manhattan scouting trips, decided she wanted to stay under $1 million, and lined up three brokers who in three days showed her 30 apartments. Among them: the one-and-a-half bath, 1,000-square-foot co-op on Fifth. 
 The apartment, she recalled, was ''in clean, livable shape.'' The kitchen and bathrooms had recently been remodeled, and the Sieglers planned no structural changes. But the floors had to be stained, the walls painted, the windows changed (requiring approval from the Landmarks Preservation Commission), the molding matched, the air-conditioning upgraded, the light fixtures modernized, the furniture and window treatments ordered and the cupboards stocked.
 Ms. Siegler collected bids long distance, then flew back to choose the painter, electrician and carpenter from friends' suggestions. She tried to schedule the work so that wet floors and walls occurred between her husband's New York business trips.
 With her Kodak EasyShare, she snapped pictures of every room in every light, took detailed measurements and devised a color chart of the paints she had chosen for the walls so she would have a crib sheet when she was shopping for rugs and a sleep sofa. 
 ''I would sit on airplanes with brochures, manuals and fabric swatches and play with my floor plan measuring to scale certain pieces of furniture,'' she said.
 Ah, the best-laid (floor) plans. ''While I was on the phone with my floor refinisher, he directed me to a stain manufacturer's Web site to choose a color -- ebony,'' Ms. Siegler recalled. ''I told him semigloss, but when I got to New York I saw that not only had he done a matte finish, but the paint colors I'd chosen for the walls were now much too anemic. They couldn't compete with the deep-colored floors.''
 As is clear to anyone who has spent five minutes with her, Ms. Siegler is not one to waste time or opportunities. If American Airlines was going to bring her cross-country, why not have it cart a fax machine too? (She swaddled one with gym clothes in a wheeled overnight bag on her most recent trip.) 
 Or how about the 5-by-6-foot Tibetan rug that now sits in her foyer, or the 7-by-8-foot sisal now at rest in the dining room? (They made the journey too.)
 Most memorable: a suitcase holding 50 pounds of lined, full-length draperies intended for the archway between the living room and dining room. They didn't stay in the apartment for long. ''The guy who made them neglected to sew in the curtain rings, so they had to come back to Los Angeles with me,'' she said.
 As is also clear to anyone who has spent five minutes with her, Ms. Siegler is not the type to go with the flow. Nevertheless, this long-distance renovation has forced her to slacken the reins of control just a bit, to accept that while no one in her right mind would schedule a paint job before a window installation, sometimes necessity trumps sentience.
 ''What makes this doable is letting go of perfection,'' Ms. Siegler said philosophically. ''When we were building our house from scratch in L.A., my husband, the contractor, the interior designer and architect would all look at the profile of a million moldings. There are a lot of billable hours in that. Here, I said to my painter, 'Choose a molding three inches wide and make it look like it matches what's already in the apartment.'''
 But in the end Ms. Siegler got what she and her husband were after: a part-time home that felt full-time ''and very well lived in,'' she said. 
 In the bedroom, the antique nightstands in front of the Chinese screen are unabashedly scratched and chipped. The spice-gold walls set off the warm caramel in the floral-patterned Ralph Lauren area rug, an early find at ABC Carpet & Home. 
 Wedgwood wedding china that never got a workout in Los Angeles is stacked in the kitchen cupboard. The much-traveled draperies are now in place -- the chocolate brown and blue side facing the living room, a muted caramel floral facing the dining room -- and serenely define and enhance the two spaces. The renovation began in January and is almost completed.
 ''I wouldn't know about things until I got here and put them together,'' Ms. Siegler said. ''But then I'd see the way something blended with the carpet or the wall color. It was like a blind date that worked.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: BICOASTAL -- The design and construction consultant Jody Cukier Siegler in her apartment, looking at samples she carried between Los Angeles and New York in renovating her Manhattan pied-a-terre. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ZELNICKMEDIA CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424920 BOOK, PERIODICAL & NEWSPAPER MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (51%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



323 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Diminished Eminence In a Changed Domain

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
NOT long ago, in the blocks along Mulberry Street, the people who were fighting this city's plan to displace them for a gigantic ''urban village'' of new condominium buildings had reason to be dispirited. Urban redevelopment was hot, the city wanted a center-of-gravity downtown for a new, affluent population, and they were in the way.
 In June, the United States Supreme Court upheld a similar plan in Connecticut, all but inviting cities everywhere to use their powers of eminent domain to upgrade by turning over less-than-stylish neighborhoods to private developers.
And then, in a wave of unintended consequences, the climate brightened for the Newark property owners who went to court 10 months ago to contest the city's designation of their neighborhood as an ''area in need of redevelopment.''
 The Supreme Court decision had no legal effect on their case, but it did galvanize opposition. Property owners around the nation have benefited ''from the blowback to that decision,'' said Harold Simon, the director of the National Housing Institute, based in Montclair. 
 The Newark owners may be among them, especially since they portray theirs as the classic case that several justices expressed reluctance about: elected officials uprooting people at the bidding of politically connected developers. 
 ''It woke people up,'' George Mytrowitz, the owner of an auto body shop and a spokesman for the Newark plaintiffs, said of the Supreme Court decision, Kelo v. City of New London. And in New Jersey, Mr. Mytrowitz said, ''judges are the ones now that got woken up.'' 
 Indeed, while New Jersey courts have long deferred to local governments' plans for redevelopment, a Superior Court judge in Essex County rejected a downtown renewal project in Bloomfield in July. On Oct. 6, a judge in Bergen County struck down a plan to raze two trailer parks in Lodi.
 ''We're on a roll here,'' said John H. Buonocore Jr., the lawyer for the Newark property owners, ''setting these things aside, coincidentally or not, after Kelo.'' 
 For good measure, the gubernatorial candidates, Senator Jon S. Corzine and Douglas R. Forrester, have criticized the Supreme Court ruling. In a radio debate on Tuesday, both said emphatically that they would curtail the use of eminent domain in New Jersey. 
 The Newark plaintiffs, calling themselves the Mulberry Street Coalition, represent about 20 of the 65 property owners in the redevelopment area, Mr. Mytrowitz said. They argue that their neighborhood was targeted almost three years ago not because it was blighted but because it was about to take off. Immediately to the north is the site of the new downtown sports arena. Along its western edge is the Ironbound, brimming with new, increasingly expensive two-and three-family houses. On Mulberry Street, several new bars and restaurants had opened, and the houses and small apartment buildings on the side streets were all occupied. But about half the area is made up of parking lots serving the downtown courthouses and post office, giving the neighborhood a deserted air after dark.
 In early 2003, the new plan for the Mulberry Street corridor materialized, drawn up at the city's request by the Newark Redevelopment Corporation, a local builder, and Metro Homes, a larger builder in Hoboken. It carved out eight blocks for mid-rise buildings with 2,000 condominiums, shops and restaurants. 
 The City Council voted in May 2003 not to continue with the plan. But last November, after the developers contributed thousands of dollars to council members, the plaintiffs say, the council declared the 13-acre tract a redevelopment area. The developers have offered residents and businesses bonuses of $20,000 in addition to fair market value -- though that value will probably be disputed -- and relocation costs. To thwart holdouts, if necessary, the city may use eminent domain. 
 That is the troublesome part, said the area's city councilman, Augusto Amador. ''It's a moral issue,'' Mr. Amador said. ''I'm not against the project itself. But from a moral standpoint, I'm not ready to allow anyone to come in and take the property for private economic development.'' 
 While the Kelo decision made clear that such takings are not unconstitutional, whether Newark complied with the state's redevelopment law is another issue. For one thing, Mr. Buonocore said, ''an area in need of redevelopment'' should be designated before the city seeks a developer. ''They were announcing the development before they even asked the planning board to study the area,'' he said. ''They have no shame in Newark.'' 
 The law also requires the city to show that the area is ''stagnant'' or ''not fully productive,'' a conclusion that Mr. Buonocore says the owners can refute. The city contends that the preponderance of parking lots illustrates that the land is by definition underproductive. 
 Finally, as Judge Richard J. Donohue wrote in the Lodi decision, under the redevelopment law, eminent domain ''should only be exercised when private efforts are not likely to correct or ameliorate'' the blight. 
 Pat Smith, a spokesman for the developers, said that was exactly the case around Mulberry Street. ''There's been no significant initiative by the private sector in this area for 40 years,'' Mr. Smith said. ''So why should one believe that this is going to happen now? That's why government gets involved in areas like this.'' 
 The principals in the Newark Redevelopment Corporation, Emilio Farina and Bruce Wishnia, were building two-and three-family houses on nearby vacant lots in the Mulberry corridor when the city asked them for a more ambitious plan for the blocks closer to downtown. Their first houses sold for about $300,000, and by the time the city established the redevelopment zone, similar houses were selling for $400,000 to $500,000, Mr. Smith said. But if property values were rising, he said, it was because ''by investing in a neighborhood where no one else had invested, these guys created value.'' Mr. Buonocore said a simple rezoning would allow high-density development around existing houses and businesses. ''The market would have rushed in,'' he said. ''They always get greedy. They said, 'Let's make this a huge area and tie it all up.''' Mr. Buonocore said that as the city recently settled with owners in the arena site, a client of his there sold for $110 a square foot, the equivalent of $4 million an acre. 
 The plaintiffs hope to present similar evidence to Superior Court Judge Patricia Costello, who, coincidentally, was the judge who decided the Bloomfield case. In that decision, Judge Costello said the township had not demonstrated that the downtown area it had condemned was in fact blighted. And Judge Costello cited Justice Anthony Kennedy's opinion in the Kelo case, which, while supporting the use of eminent domain in New London, said that ''impermissible favoritism'' in deals with private developers is sometimes ''so acute'' that the condemnation should be barred. 
 In the meantime, the Mulberry Street case, like most, is a race against the market: the developers rushing to secure property before the coming gentrification drives up prices while the sellers seek delay for the same reason. 
 The property owners may benefit, too, from what Councilman Amador called ''the changing political climate.'' The councilman's ally, Cory Booker, will oppose Mayor Sharpe James or his chosen successor in the mayoral primary in May, and if Mulberry Street is still fighting then, Mr. Amador said, ''you may see a reversal.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: George Mytrowitz owns an auto shop and is a spokesman for property owners. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PROPERTY LAW (89%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); JUDGES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); TRAILER PARKS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (83%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (57%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



324 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Looking to Beat the Price of Heating

BYLINE: By GREG CLARKIN

 BODY:
THE calls for the chimney cleaners began coming into Total Chimney Care in July, about four months earlier than usual. 
 Then came the onslaught of phone calls for wood stoves, a pickup in business so sharp that Total Chimney, in Milford, added a second service truck and work crew to keep up. But even that hasn't satisfied the demand from customers eager to heat their homes with wood as a way to avoid higher prices for oil and natural gas this winter.
''We're booking three weeks in advance now,'' double the usual week and a half, said Laurie Paladino, the office manager. ''We're getting slammed.'' 
 With winter around the corner, consumers are nervous about heating costs. Having already watched gasoline rise quickly, then keep on rising, they realize that oil and natural gas could do the same, meaning they could be paying hundreds of dollars more to heat their homes.
 Even the price of wood is going up. The federal Department of Energy estimated that heating bills could be 30 percent higher this season.
 Actually, the price for home heating oil is already almost 50 percent higher, at $2.60 a gallon, up from $1.70 last year, oil dealers said. The Department of Energy said it expected natural gas prices to rise almost 40 percent, to an average of $19.67 per thousand cubic feet, up from $14.21 last winter.
 ''It's a unique year,'' said Sal Camera owner of Alpine Heating and Cooling in East Haven. ''Customers are talking about turning the thermostat down and putting on a sweatshirt. I haven't heard that in years.'' 
 There are about 682,000 heating oil customers in Connecticut, according to the Independent Connecticut Petroleum Association. They use 545 million gallons of heating oil annually, with each customer averaging 800 gallons a year. At that average and at the current prices, heating bills could increase to about $2,100, up from about $1,350 last year.
 But while the price for oil is higher, there appears to be a sufficient supply for the Northeast this winter, said Eugene Guilford, Jr., executive director of the association.
 ''If we have a normal or average heating season, we're in pretty good shape,'' Mr. Guilford said. There is an inventory of 14 million barrels in the Northeast, about 4 million barrels more than last year, he said. 
 Most dealers said they sensed a fear from customers who have seen how fast oil prices can rise and a realization that heating oil costing under $2 a gallon may be a thing of the past. They are reporting a sharp increase in calls from customers looking to lock in prices and upgrade to more-fuel-efficient heating systems.
 Peter Aziz, president of Bantam Fuel in Bantam, said the talk of higher energy costs is everywhere.
 ''People see it at the pumps, they hear it on the news,'' he said, and that has helped push some into action, including scrapping old, inefficient systems.
 John Irwin of Litchfield replaced a decades-old heating system in the house that he and his wife, Marion, own. He said the furnace was patched up last year to get through the winter, but a desire to save money and do their part to conserve energy pushed them to spend $5,000 on a new system earlier this year.
 ''There's a squeeze on our nation and this is our part,'' Mr. Irwin said.
 Mr. Camera at Alpine Heating and Cooling was also doing a big business replacing old heating systems, in some cases very old.
 ''Our installation sales are up 35 percent,'' he said. ''We're replacing units that go back to the 20's and 30's, believe it or not.''
 Many dealers have a variety of payment programs, including locking in a set price for the oil. But with the sharp price swings this year, some dealers discouraged their customers from signing contracts that locked in the current prices, which some dealers said may go down.
 ''There was tremendous interest in them, but we didn't like the volatility,'' said Steve Lombardi, who with his wife, Lynda, run Brodeur's Oil Service in Moosup. ''The volatility is such that it can change several times in an hour, and I've seen it change 20 cents in a day.''
 The inability of some people to pay their energy bills is something that concerns everyone from oil dealers to Connecticut officials.
 Claudette Beaulieu, deputy commissioner of programs at the Department of Social Services, said there has been an increase in the number of calls from people who said they will need help paying their fuel bills.
 And for some, making the call seeking aid is not something that comes easily.
 ''Certain segments of the population are reluctant to ask for help, but I think this year they're getting scared,'' Ms. Beaulieu said.
 With natural gas one of the leading ways of heating in many urban areas, some utilities are bracing for the impact of higher prices.
 The number of calls to Yankee Gas asking about budget billing programs has jumped, said Sandy St. Pierre, a spokeswoman.
 ''There's a lot of concern over what's going to happen this heating season,'' Ms. St. Pierre said. ''Everything is higher, and energy is taking a bigger bite out of people's budgets.''
 That is likely to translate into a larger than usual number of customers with bills past due, she said.
 Yankee serves about 194,000 customers, and from 55,000 to 65,000 are typically 30 days past due on their gas bill, she said. ''There will likely be more people who we expect will either be delinquent, have a harder time paying their bill, or be unable to pay,'' Ms. St. Pierre said.
 As a result, Yankee will work with the customers to help them pay their bills. ''We're constantly working to get customers in some type of payment arrangement,'' she said.
 Jeff Blodgett, vice president for research with the Connecticut Economic Resource Center, a nonprofit company that promotes Connecticut as a business location, said of the higher fuel bills: ''This really acts as a broad-based regressive tax. If you're earning $100,000 to $150,000, it's a minor inconvenience. But for families trying to get by on incomes of $30,000 to $70,000, high heating costs are a serious concern. In that area, with a couple of kids and a couple of cars, you're stretched pretty thin.''
 Which is why everybody from chimney cleaners to oil dealers to woodcutters can expect to be busy in the coming weeks. Ms. Paladino at Total Chimney Care said the price for a cord of wood was around $135 last year at this time, but has risen to $170 to $200 and is going higher because demand has increased.
 ''I'll bet you it will be $250 by December,'' she said. ''It's just supply and demand.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Waskevich of Alpine Heating delivering fuel in Hamden.
 To save money and energy, John Irwin of Litchfield replaced his furnace with a $5,000 heating system. And old-fashioned fuel helps, too. (Photographs by Carl David LaBianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (76%); HVAC SYSTEMS (76%); FUEL DEALERS (75%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Heating; Wood and Wood Products; Gas (Fuel); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Chimneys and Smokestacks; Ovens and Stoves; Heating

ORGANIZATION: total chimney care (co) ; Energy Department; independent connecticut petroleum assn

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



325 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: In Long Branch, No Olive Branches

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: LONG BRANCH 

 BODY:
DAVID BARRY, the president of the Applied Companies, had just finished his presentation on a proposal to build an upscale residential and commercial project in this shore city. For the next phase of the redevelopment to continue, the town must condemn about four dozen neat, small homes on streets leading to the beach.
 On a recent day, brightly colored artists' renderings were arrayed on easels across the front of the Town Council chambers, contrasting with the stony faces of the council members as they braced for the public's turn to talk.
 Among the speakers was Bill Nordahl, a retired electronics company employee, whose apartment in a beachfront bungalow is in the path of the proposed redevelopment. He is a leader in the nearly two-year battle over the plans. 
 ''What David Barry didn't mention is that he is president of Applied now because his father, Joe Barry, is in jail for bribing people,'' said Mr. Nordahl, referring to the elder Barry's sentencing in 2004 to 25 months in prison for making $115,000 in payoffs to Robert C. Janiszewski, the former Hudson County executive. ''It is very clear that these people have too much power because they have so much money to throw around, and they are allowed to throw it around.''
 In Long Branch, there is no evidence or even a hint of illegal payments to anybody. But in the brave new world of redevelopment there is no tactic that is too extreme. Charging corruption or worse is all in the course of the war. ''They will use any attack they can,'' Mr. Barry said in an interview, ''and I have to sit there and listen to it.'' 
 Since a United States Supreme Court ruling in June -- known as Kelo v. New London -- emboldened municipalities to condemn property under eminent domain laws to make way for private development, anti-development groups have felt at once energized yet under siege, their avenues of legal recourse uncertain. 
 So in places like Long Branch, where the battle to block Applied's project was already emotion-drenched, the gloves have come off as anti-development groups try to block projects before the issue reaches the courts. 
 At the same time, many homeowners are looking to Trenton for the means to block redevelopment and the use of eminent domain. Legislation is pending to tighten the rules under which eminent domain can be invoked, and lawmakers as well as Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey have been asked to impose a moratorium on all redevelopment efforts relying on the use of eminent domain. 
 Local groups like those in Long Branch have held rallies and flooded state officials with letters and telephone calls in support of their cause. Yet those efforts do not have the support of local officials, especially those in distressed beachfront towns like Long Branch, Neptune and Asbury Park as well as in such urban centers as Newark, Camden and Jersey City. 
 William Dressel, the executive director of the New Jersey League of Municipalities, says localities depend on growth.
 ''Given the fiscal condition of our state with its budget deficit and the absence of any lifeline whatsoever from the federal government, towns have been encouraged to work with the private sector ever since the redevelopment law in the state was passed in 1949 and amended in 1992 and 2003,'' Mr. Dressel said. : ''Where do people think development comes from? Some development fairy who waves her magic wand?''
 Rather, local officials are working hand in hand with developers, who say they already face prohibitive economic and political restrictions and do not need more limits on building from the State Legislature. 
 Mr. Barry of Applied criticized homeowners, like those in Long Branch, who try to block redevelopment projects, describing them as ''opportunists looking for higher prices for their property or the limelight and the very few who are really victims.''
 Political oddsmakers say that Governor Codey is unlikely to back a moratorium, although the two men currently running for governor have criticized the Supreme Court ruling and have said that they would curtail the use of eminent domain in New Jersey.
 Against this backdrop, State Senator Diane B. Allen, Republican of Burlington, and State Senator Nia H. Gill, Democrat of Montclair, are pushing a bill they introduced this summer to address what they consider inequities in the eminent domain laws.
 While the bill does not try to limit eminent domain, it calls for greater public involvement in the process. It increases the requirement for public hearings on condemnations and redevelopment plans, and narrows the definition of blight that could subject properties and whole areas to condemnation. 
 ''The bill would make the process for condemnation more transparent,'' Ms. Allen said. ''The bottom line is that the Supreme Court decision has jeopardized the security of many homeowners, and we should all be afraid.''
 Ms. Gill said that although she and Ms. Allen were trying to use widespread grass-roots concern about eminent domain to cajole developers into making compromises, ''it won't be a cakewalk.''
 There is already a great deal of resistance. Mayor Sharpe James of Newark, who also represents his city in the State Senate, said that the bill appeared to be ''a non-starter.'' 
 As Mr. James put it, the measure ''handicaps mayors and developers'' alike by undermining existing expectations about just compensation and limiting their ability to determine what is for the greater good.
 But Joseph Maraziti, a former chairman of the New Jersey Planning Commission whose law firm represents several towns on redevelopment issues, said some of the proposed changes may be inevitable, although they may now seem like heresy to developers and local officials.
 ''All of the forces are stacked against the developers now, so some modest upside for property and homeowners may be called for,'' Mr. Maraziti said. ''In the end, it is the future success or failure of these kinds of projects that matters the most to what we do.''
 If any eminent domain legislation is eventually passed, it may be too late for Mr. Nordahl and his neighbors along Ocean Terrace in Long Branch. These days, they scamper nervously from expanded bungalow to converted Cape Cod to see who in their neighborhood has already received the formal condemnation letters from the town. Once a letter arrives, a homeowner has 14 days to file a legal challenge. 
 In the last week, only 14 among about 40 property owners on the treeless, sun-baked blocks just west of the beachfront had received such notices. But they can see the signs of change outside their windows: just to the south, four- and five-story buildings with condominiums selling for $400,000 and up are under construction and advancing northward, as relentless as the ocean surf.
 One of the Ocean Terrace homeowners, Rose LaRosa, and her daughter Joanne are less worried about compensation than the memories accumulated in their house. Sitting at the kitchen table, they recalled how Rose LaRosa's father bought the house sight unseen in 1944. 
 Mrs. LaRosa's children and her children's children have grown up vacationing in that house, where she now lives year-round and where time was marked by when the fountain in the yard was built or the hydrangeas were planted.
 ''They say this area is blighted,'' Joanne LaRosa said incredulously. ''Does it look blighted to you? If anything, the town is trying to make it blighted because for the past decade they have denied permits and many of us have sought to make improvements.''
 The redevelopment plan seeks to replace the homes with 185 condominiums in three buildings, a community pavilion, a parkand a beachfront restaurant with windows jutting toward the ocean like the prow of a ship. 
 Mr. Nordahl likened the town's development plan to the Trojan horse. At first it appeared to residents as colorful maps in which their homes were in an area color-coded for in-fill housing, meaning only compatible new homes would be built on existing vacant lots and new sidewalks and lighting would be added.
 ''The in-fill areas were color-coded green, while the new construction areas were taupe, I think,'' he said. ''We thought we were O.K., and as recently as a year ago, planners in town were still telling us we were still an in-fill area.'' 
 But the plan approved by the Town Council earlier this month would raze every house in the neighborhood. 
 To Joanne LaRosa the proposed development is an insult to family and memory, and an aesthetic blow as well. The neighborhood is an organic, almost whimsical collection of houses that have evolved over the years with second stories, additions and other embellishments -- strikingly unlike the cookie-cutter condominiums moving north.
 ''It's getting like Disney World, an unreal, make-believe place,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Facing condemnation under eminent domain in the Ocean Terrace neighborhood in Long Branch: from left, Bill Nordahl, Joanne LaRosa, Anna DeFaria, and Josephine and Carmen Vendetti.
 In Long Branch, the gloves have come off as residents in the Ocean Terrace neighborhood battle plans for redevelopment. (Photographs by Jack Howard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (91%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY LAW (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); SENTENCING (73%); ELECTRONICS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); CITIES (72%); COUNTIES (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



326 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Sonata for Chromelodeon

BYLINE: By MICHELLE FALKENSTEIN

DATELINE: UPPER MONTCLAIR 

 BODY:
IN a large, bright room on the lowest level of Alexander Kasser Theater here at Montclair State University, Dean Drummond picks up two mallets that resemble giant Q-tips. He bangs on four massive wooden planks that rest atop resonators. The instrument, a marimba eroica, generates low, deep sounds.
 Never heard of a marimba eroica? There is good reason: It is one of nearly 30 instruments, all of which reside at Montclair State, that were invented and built by the composer Harry Partch from 1930 to 1974, the year of his death. The self-taught Partch, who worked well outside the music mainstream, built his instruments -- the bloboy, chromelodeon, eucal blossom, quadrangularis reversum and zymo-xyl, to name a few -- from materials as unusual as the names he gave them. Those include airplane fuel-tank nose cones, honey-colored gourds, brass shell casings, Chinese rice bowls and specially tuned light bulbs. Some look like musical instruments, others like sculptures. 
Partch's creations are tuned to a 43-tone scale, as opposed to the 12-tone scale used in most Western music. ''It's about gradations,'' said Mr. Drummond, a disciple and former assistant of Partch's who picked up his mentor's predilection for originality. Mr. Drummond, a music professor at Montclair State, also writes microtonal music and has invented his own instruments, which he calls the zoomoozophone and justrokerods.
 On Friday at 7:30 p.m. in Kasser Theater, Mr. Drummond's ensemble, Newband, will perform the New Jersey premiere of his 1996 composition ''The Last Laugh,'' a score for the 1924 F.W. Murnau silent film of the same name. The work is played on Partch, Drummond and traditional instruments.
 The trove of Partch instruments came to the school in 1999 with Mr. Drummond, who was made their caretaker in 1990 by the Harry Partch Foundation in San Diego. He credits the former chairwoman of Montclair's music department, Ruth Rendleman, for giving the instruments a stable home. Because of economic hardship and academic politics, the instruments, many of which are large and incorporate fragile elements like empty liquor bottles and tree boughs, had endured five homes in their nine years under Mr. Drummond's stewardship. ''The instruments take up space,'' Mr. Drummond said, ''and they don't consistently generate income.''
 Partch's compositions, including ''Ulysses Departs From the Edge of the World,'' ''Eleven Intrusions,'' and ''And on the Seventh Day Petals Fell on Petaluma,'' sound somewhat Asian and usually include parts for voices. Many of the instruments require a certain level of physical fitness to play, and Partch included stage directions for musicians as well. ''He wanted them to be actors, dancers and movers, too,'' said Danlee Mitchell, a professor of music at San Diego State University and head of the Harry Partch Foundation. ''You had to be a quadruple-threat performer. The physical look of a performance was just as important as the abstract music.''
 Partch was born in Oakland, Calif., in 1901 and moved with his parents to the Southwest. As a teenager he played piano in brothels and accompanied silent films. After a year of college, he dropped out and rode the rails as a hobo during the Depression. Several of his works refer to the time he spent tramping, including ''The Letter'' and ''Barstow.'' Partch is also known for the book ''Genesis of a Music: An Account of a Creative Work, Its Roots and Its Fulfillments,'' which was first issued in 1947 and enlarged for a 1974 edition. Partch had a stroke and died in 1974.
 Mr. Drummond described Partch as a bitter, alcoholic curmudgeon who also happened to be a genius. ''I loved him, so I put up with it,'' Mr. Drummond said. ''I was selfish, and he was the most interesting and brilliant person I had ever met in my life.''
 Students at Montclair State can study Partch's music, theories and instruments, as well as play in the Harry Partch Ensemble that Mr. Drummond directs.
 Mr. Drummond said teaching Partch's microtonal music to students increases their understanding of 12-tone music as well. ''I can't teach my students a second language,'' he said, ''without teaching them more about their first language.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dean Drummond with an instrument called the gourd tree. Below, a mazda marimba, which is made of light bulbs. (Photographs by Michelle Falkenstein for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FILM (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (75%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (67%); DANCERS (64%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



327 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2004 words

HEADLINE: Fading Foliage

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
FALL arrives in Connecticut like a prom queen, draped in boastful reds, yellows and rusty browns, perfumed with wood smoke. It saunters through the Litchfield hills, then turns to the suburbs and cities, where one tree on one block can inspire an entire neighborhood's devotion.
 Fall is important here not only for the spectacle it creates, but also for the tourist economy it supports and the cultural symbol it represents; no season is more strongly identified with New England than fall. As far back as 150 years ago, Henry David Thoreau realized how special it was.
''October is the month of painted leaves,'' Thoreau wrote in his 1862 essay ''Autumnal Tints.'' ''Their rich glow now flashes round the world.'' 
 But what if the glow wasn't so rich?
 That is a question some scientists have already begun to ask, and they don't think it is hypothetical. Already this year, throughout New England, the foliage has been late and, some say, unspectacular. Scientists at the University of New Hampshire project that shifts in the climate caused by global warming will progressively dull the leaves throughout southern New England over the next century. Maples will move north and the remaining oaks and hickories will change colors later and with less verve, they say. If the projections are correct, leaf-peepers may be forced as far north as Canada for their fix of foliage.
 Indeed, one scientist says autumn in Connecticut has already lost its brilliance.
 ''We haven't had a really great display in the last 10 years,'' said Barrett Rock, a professor in natural resources and a researcher at the Complex Systems Research Center at the University of New Hampshire who has studied the effects of global warming on the local autumn landscape.
 This year, the problem has been intense heat in late summer and early fall, which delayed the changing of the leaves and may dull them, said Chris James, director of air planning at the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection. The average temperature in August was 73 degrees, nearly 4 degrees higher than the average since 1895, and the second-highest August average in that period, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The heat did not let up in September, when it was 3.7 degrees warmer than average. Precipitation was about one inch below average. 
 But global warming is a gradual phenomenon, and one warm year does not mean that fall will be this warm every year. Indeed, this year's reduced rainfall appears to be an anomaly; trends in precipitation show the state becoming wetter in recent years, and computer models, set forth in a federally financed 2001 report, the New England Regional Assessment, project that that trend will continue.
 Nonetheless, scientists like Dr. Rock say there is ample reason to worry. In the regional assessment report, Dr. Rock and fellow researchers at the University of New Hampshire and other universities in the region found that Connecticut's average temperature had increased by 1.4 degrees throughout the last century. The scientists used two different models to project what New England would look like over the next 100 years.
 Both models, Dr. Rock said in a telephone interview, are considered ''middle of the road,'' predicting gradual but not extreme warming trends. But both project that global warming will accelerate dramatically in New England. One forecasts an overall temperature increase of 6 degrees by 2090. That would leave Boston looking and feeling like Richmond, Va. The other model projected a climate like Atlanta's, a full 10 degrees warmer than Boston's.
 This year, a University of New Hampshire environmental scientist, Cameron P. Wake, issued a report in conjunction with Clean Air Cool Planet, a nonprofit group that studies climate change in the Northeast. Using different methods from the earlier study, the new report confirmed the warming trend in the Northeast throughout the 20th century, and showed it increasing over the last 30 years. The new report did not focus on foliage but found other significant effects to plants and trees, including progressively later bloom dates for lilac trees.
 The warming trends affect foliage in various ways, Dr. Rock said. As greenhouse gases accumulate and the earth warms, summer weather will linger into fall. That will delay the frosts that degrade chlorophyll and trigger leaves to change. It takes at least one frost in which temperatures fall to 30 degrees Fahrenheit or below to start the changes in the leaves. If those fall frosts are delayed, or the chlorophyll breaks down more gradually, leaf-peepers will not see the vibrant reds they have come to expect in Connecticut, Dr. Rock said.
 Last week, Marian Travis was decorating a lamp post near her house in Ossining, N.Y., with colorful fake leaves when she realized that something felt wrong though she was getting her neighborhood ready for fall, it felt more like summer. ''It didn't even fell like fall,'' she said. ''It is fall by the calendar, so you have to put the decorations up.''
 Ms. Travis said she thinks fall has changed since she was a girl. ''I remember in the fall, I'd walk home from school and there were so many leaves in the street and the gutter,'' she said. ''They don't have them anymore. I don't think the fall is like what we used to have way back.''
 Global warming will affect which tree species can survive in the state and which will move north to cooler climates, scientists say. 
 Maples, with their stunning red, yellow and orange leaves, are New England's treasures in the fall. Thoreau positively gushed over them, writing that they seem to absorb ''all the sunny warmth of the season.''
 Connecticut is full of maples, but changes in temperature, air quality and rainfall, the 2001 climate report said, will change the mix of trees in state forests. Connecticut officials said they have already noticed this trend. ''Already we see a lot of the maple trees moving northward,'' said Gina McCarthy, the commissioner of the State Department of Environmental Protection. ''The species is migrating northward.''
 Birches and beeches, two other species known for their foliage, can also be expected to migrate north, according to the 2001 report. 
 In their place, Ms. McCarthy said, leaf enthusiasts can expect to see more oak and hickory in Connecticut's 1.9 million acres of forests. Leaves from those two species are more muted in the fall, often turning brown or dull green.
 The 2001 report details other possible effects of global warming on foliage, including increases in plant diseases and insect outbreaks. Warming also increases ground-level ozone, which can damage leaves.
 But it is not just scientists who are concerned about the changing autumn landscape. The colors of fall are big business for the tourism industry. If the prom queen leaves town, and is replaced by a quiet unassuming friend in brown or dull green, will anyone come to see her? If the scientists' projections come true over the next century, will people seeking truly great foliage go all the way to Canada?
 Not so fast, said Connecticut tourism industry executives. 
 ''The general trend toward global warming is slow and almost imperceptible,'' said Jennifer Aniskovich, executive director of the Connecticut Commission on Culture and Tourism. Ms. Aniskovich said the state has had some of its most spectacular displays in the last two years. 
 Others were more adamant.
 ''Global warming has not in any way, shape or form come to this part of the country yet,'' said Pauline Simring, the owner of Pauline's Place, an antique and estate jewelry shop in Kent. ''If I was in Alaska, I would be concerned, but I am in beautiful northwest Connecticut. We willall be long dead if there is ever a change in this part of the country.''
 Janet Serra, director of the Northwest Connecticut Convention and Visitors Bureau, said people always seem to doubt the foliage. Nonetheless, the display in Litchfield County is consistently extraordinary, she said. Although she acknowledged that it is late this year, she still has hope for a beautiful fall.
 ''Somehow, mother nature always comes through,'' Ms. Serra said.
 Three million to four million tourists come to Connecticut in the fall, which is close to 40 percent of the state's tourism, Ms. Aniskovich said. Early bookings this year are about the same as last year, she said. 
 Businesses throughout the state depend on the foliage to draw tourists to the area.
 ''We've always marketed fall foliage,'' said Marianne Vandenburgh, who owns the House on the Hill Bed and Breakfast in Waterbury. Ms. Vandenburgh said she looks forward every year to the leaves on the beech tree in her yard turning copper. So far this year, she said last week, the tree has not changed color.
 ''The beech isn't changing,'' she said. ''The maples are just sort of playing at it.''
 Some see the foliage as New England's single most defining element.
 ''Egypt has the Pyramids,'' Ms. Serra said. ''Paris has the Eiffel Tower. Every place in the world has something special. In New England, foliage and brilliant colors are very special.''
 Where would Connecticut be without its foliage? According to some historians, the state would be right back where it was 200 years ago.
 Brilliant fall foliage, it seems, was not always a given in this part of the country. Early colonists took intricate notes on the natural beauty they saw when they came to New England, but they made few mentions of the fall foliage, said Walter Woodward, an assistant professor in the history department at the University of Connecticut, and the official state historian. ''With all of the accounts of early settlers in New England, there's rarely any mention of the color of leaves in the fall,'' Dr. Woodward said. ''They describe nature in incredible detail, but we often ask 'Where's the fall?'''
 In ''Autumnal Tints,'' Thoreau himself lamented the lack of appreciation for the leaves, and the strange absence of essays and poems about them. ''The autumnal change of our woods has not made a deep impression on our own literature yet,'' he wrote. ''October has hardly tinged our poetry.''
 Kent C. Ryden, an associate professor of American and New England studies at the University of Southern Maine, tried to understand why that was in his book ''Landscape with Figures: Nature and Culture in New England'' (University of Iowa Press, 2001). Dr. Ryden argued that the foliage New Englanders see today was not always part of the collective consciousness of the Europeans who settled here. For many years, he said, it was not even part of the landscape.
 When colonists first arrived in New England, they clear-cut forests to make room for farming and grazing. While about 75 percent of New England is now covered with trees, only about 25 percent of the area was forested in the middle of the 19th century, Dr. Ryden said.
 ''Up until the mid- to late-19th century, there wasn't really a whole lot of foliage to see, let alone to value as a tourist resource,'' he said.
 In the mid-19th century, agriculture began to decline in New England, and hardwood forests slowly grew back, Dr. Ryden said. Still, foliage did not become integral to the region's identity until the 1920's and 1930's, when automobiles made it easier to reach New England. Color photography further enhanced the region's reputation, he said. 
 But to treat fall foliage like a birthright or a constant cultural marker is not historically accurate, he said. The colorful autumns are as much a product of mythmaking as they are of chlorophyll, he said. 
 If projections for global warming are accurate, the region could begin to look as it did 200 years ago. The irony is not lost on Dr. Ryden.
 ''It could become another part of the romanticized New England past,'' he said. ''The good strong Yankee farmers and the foliage, the classic village green and the white church, that whole combination of landscape elements that people get on the bus to see every fall.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A scenic view along the Barkhamsted Reservoir. Hot temperatures in the late summer and early fall have delayed the changing of the leaves this year and may dull them. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Ken Ransom at his maple farm in Riverton, where green rules.
For a touch of autumn, Marian Travis of Ossining, N.Y., decided to hang a string of colorful artificial leaves in her yard. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo for The New York Times)
 There is some sign of the leaves changing color along the Farmington River near the Pleasant Valley bridge. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TRENDS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); SUBURBS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); WEATHER (71%); NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%) Weather; Travel and Vacations; Global Warming

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (82%) University of New Hampshire

PERSON: Avi Salzman

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) Connecticut ; New England States (US); Northeastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



328 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Delphi Inc., Meet Germany Inc.

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS

 BODY:
THE United States and Germany are often depicted as being at opposite poles of global capitalism. 
 The American economy is supposed to sacrifice workers' security for dynamic growth, embracing globalization with comparatively little concern for the loss of jobs at home.
The German nanny state, by comparison, fiercely holds on to its generous cradle-to-grave benefits and job projections at the expense of job creation and vigorous growth.
 Like all stereotypes, these are riddled with holes: the German economy is plenty impressive, with export juggernauts like the industrial conglomerate Siemens, while the typical United States workplace is hardly a Dickensian mill. 
 But two seemingly unrelated changes last week demonstrated how the world's largest economy, the United States', and the third-largest one, Germany's, are dealing with, or failing to deal with, a fundamental challenge: how to outsmart globalization. 
 On Oct. 8, Delphi Inc., the largest auto parts company in the United States, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, citing, in part, the high cost of its American workers, who earn as much as $65 per hour. 
 And on Oct. 10, Germany threw in the towel on its election -- the one that was supposed to push Germans into confronting their stagnant economy. Instead, Germany's two largest parties, with differing goals, agreed to form a coalition government under the leadership of Angela Merkel. Any true reckoning has been put on hold.
 What happened? In the week before the election, I toured Germany with other journalists and met with politicians, government officials, bankers and corporate executives. At every stop, we heard a similar message. 
 The current regime of slow economic growth and high labor costs, combined with generous social welfare benefits, is unsustainable. And yet we were left with an overriding sense that the country lacked the appetite for change.
 The same held true for Delphi, which was spun off from General Motors in 1999. The structural flaws that caused its collapse -- high-paying jobs and pensions -- have been evident from the 1970's. Yet the unions and Delphi management also couldn't take corrective action rapidly enough to avert disaster.
 It's not that Delphi Inc. and Germany Inc. have stuck their heads in the sand. Far from it. Delphi is a multinational company, with operations in 40 countries. And Germany's blue chips have likewise aggressively sought growth overseas. 
 But many chief executives find it difficult to justify further investment in Germany. It has rigid labor markets, extensive government and union involvement in corporate governance and high regulation (virtually all retailers are shut on Sundays in Germany, which can be hard to support in a country with 11.2 percent unemployment). And the labor reforms enacted by Chancellor Gerhard Schroder were just enough to alienate core voters without actually changing economic conditions much.
 The elevation of Ms. Merkel is revolutionary. She's the first female chancellor, and the first from East Germany. But her party, the Christian Democrats, and its allies did not win enough parliamentary seats to form a government on their own. So after a few weeks of haggling, Ms. Merkel agreed to create a grand coalition with Mr. Schroder's Social Democrats. 
 It's as if George W. Bush and Al Gore formed a joint government in 2000, and split up cabinet agencies -- Democrats in charge of labor and commerce, a Republican at treasury.
 The stakeholders of Germany Inc. -- the voters -- were unwilling to vote for significant change. And they are now guaranteed not to get it.
 Despite the obvious differences in the German and American styles of capitalism, certain similarities are apparent. There's a trans-Atlantic tendency for stakeholders in both countries to see themselves largely as powerless victims of a global economy. 
 In both countries, chief executives in several crucial industries believe they simply can't continue to operate in their home countries if they have to support the pensions, wages and benefits to which their workers have become accustomed. 
 On Monday, Steve Miller, the chief executive of Delphi, said that Delphi's former parent company, General Motors, could be ''headed down the same Chapter 11 path as Delphi, unless there is a dramatic change in the staggering legacy labor burden.''
 And yet wounded, once-proud giants like Delphi and Germany Inc. may find some common cause in their misery. Of the large American automakers, Chrysler was the most at risk in the 1980's. It averted a near-death experience because labor and management struck cost-cutting deals, and because the federal government backed loans to the company. 
 Paradoxically, Chrysler ultimately found salvation by merging with a Germany company. Today, DaimlerChrysler is in far better financial health than either General Motors or Ford. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pre-Rust Belt -- Michigan's auto workers didn't always have to worry about globalization. Germany's workers still don't. (Photo by Bettmann/Corbis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (57%); SIE (LSE) (57%); SIE (FRA) (57%); SIE (BIT) (57%); SI (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



329 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Blame Game in Kashmir; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: A Quake Jolts Armies, Too 

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE and SOMINI SENGUPTA; David Rohde reported from Rawalpindi for this article, and Somini Sengupta from Srinagar.

DATELINE: RAWALPINDI, Pakistan 

 BODY:
MOHAMMED NASIR, a taxi driver from the Pakistani side of Kashmir, soothed his wounded little girl and cursed the soldiers who brought her to a modern, humming military hospital in this Pakistani garrison city. What did the Pakistani Army do for his village in Kashmir, crushed and crippled by last Saturday's earthquake? ''Almost nothing,'' he spat. 
 Yes, they airdropped packets of milk and a few packets of rice, but those disintegrated during the descent, he recalled. Yes, they airlifted his daughter, 6 years old and with a broken leg, but they abandoned the vast majority of the wounded to curse their fate at home. ''We were brought in a small helicopter that carried four,'' Mr. Nasir said bitterly. ''The rest were left.'' 
Mr. Nasir's indictment, born of both rage and reason, did not necessarily reflect all that was being done in the vastness of this calamity by the two armies that have faced each other in the disputed region of Kashmir for 55 years. But in it lay a window into the huge challenge that his government, and that of India, face in the aftermath of an earthquake that struck on Oct. 8.
 Like few things before it, this calamity has tested the mettle of the state in both countries, and no institution more than their armies. 
 The circumstances present slightly different challenges for India and Pakistan. 
 The Pakistani military controls every important institution in its country, starting with the presidency, on a claim that only it can deliver order and honest government now. Will its performance in the earthquake zone prove it to be a bulwark of order and incorruptibility? India, by contrast, has long been seen as an occupying power by many of Kashmir's citizens. Will its efforts endear it to civilians, or alienate them even more?
 Having fought three wars, both countries devote large shares of their budgets to their militaries -- roughly 2.7 percent of gross domestic product in India and about 5 percent of a much smaller gross domestic product in Pakistan. One obvious challenge in Kashmir will be to show that these resources can be used at least as effectively as aid from Islamic charities now raising funds from Saudi Arabia to the United States. 
 That the quake rumbled under the disputed frontier in Kashmir is perhaps the most tragic paradox. It has wrought new ruin on a region already eviscerated by war. 
 Pakistan has long portrayed itself as the true defender of Kashmiris and their call for independence. But featured in an English-language Pakistani newspaper last week was a photograph of Kashmiri men, their fists in the air, in angry protest -- not against the Indian government, but against their own. It was taken in Muzaffarabad, the capital of Pakistani-controlled Kashmir. 
 In Srinagar, the capital of Indian-controlled Kashmir, frustrations with the pace of government relief also ran high. Six days after the quake, there were no tents or blankets for the homeless, bracing against the onset of winter in the hills. They used wood from the rubble as fuel to prepare whatever food they could retrieve. The Indian Army, posted everywhere in these hills, had brought relief rations consisting of about four pounds each of rice and lentils. But the first glimpse of the civilian administration was a medical team that arrived on day six after the quake. 
 ''We feel that we just do not exist,'' said Mohammed Latif Shah, whose mother died in the earthquake in a village near the disputed frontier. ''It is really painful.''
 ''At this moment we feel that we are not part of India,'' said an indignant Syed Akbar Ali Shah, 65, a former porter for the Indian Army. 
 It is in times of catastrophe, as opposed to war, that relations between a nation's soldiers and its citizens can matter most. And in this part of the world, which is among the most militarized anywhere, how the Pakistani and Indian governments respond will certainly be seen as a test of their commitment to the people of Kashmir. 
 ''We thought this would have been an opportunity, would have given a boost to the peace process, would have narrowed the gulf,'' said Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, a Muslim religious leader who leads a coalition of Kashmiri separatist groups called the Hurriyet Conference. ''It hasn't happened. That's unfortunate.'' 
 As the despair over relief supplies shows, there is not much love lost for the Indian Army in Indian-held Kashmir. Still, it has been widely credited there for its initial rescue efforts, including the loss of a half-dozen of its men in one operation on Wednesday. Even Mr. Farooq acknowledged their sacrifice. ''The army especially did help our people in far-flung areas,'' he said. But he was quick to add: ''The presence of the Army itself is not acceptable to Kashmiris.'' 
 That earthquake operations could buy good will among the populace was not lost on Indian troops. The spokesman for the Indian Army, Col. Hemant Juneja, said his soldiers began rescue operations within hours of the quake. More than 40 soldiers lost their lives, he said, and he offered an inventory of all that the military had delivered to survivors, including 18,000 food ration packs, 20,000 pairs of warm pants, 10,000 pairs of winter socks, 51,100 coats, 15,400 waterproof windbreakers, 5,400 mattresses, 3,200 blankets, 3,000 tents. 
 ''It should show the Indian Army's humane face to the civil population, that despite our casualties, despite our damage, the love and affection for the local population is there,'' the colonel said. Indeed, the potential payoff could be large. Good will among civilians could be a key to gathering intelligence, which in turn could be a key to the Indian Army's counterinsurgency drive. 
 On the Pakistani side of the line, the harshest criticism of the government has centered on its initial response. After the quake struck, military officials and the military-dominated government played down its size. Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz said in an interview later that the earthquake had severed communication, cut the main road to Muzaffarabad and made it impossible to assess the impact swiftly. Four hundred casualties among the army slowed the response, he said.
 Where an army dominates a country, it is also easy to blame. It breeds both expectations and suspicion. Today in Pakistan, generals wield enormous power, military intelligence dominates all corners of government, and private companies attached to army welfare funds own everything from housing tracts to bottled water companies.
 But in the days after the quake, Mr. Nasir and others asked where the army was. It was villagers living less than a two-hour drive from an army base who were digging out the dead with their bare hands. A few days later, relief was flowing but there were no soldiers to regulate traffic leading up to the hardest-hit areas in the north. The road was choked with trucks and vans carrying bananas, blankets and anxious relatives. 
 As relief trickled in, the people shivered another night in the hills.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rescue Mission -- Quake victims say delivery of relief supplies, like these being sent from Pakistan, has been slow. (Photo by Jewel Samad/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (87%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); BONE FRACTURES (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); HELICOPTERS (70%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (99%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (95%) ASIA (99%); INDIA (95%); PAKISTAN (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



330 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: A Season A Tad Off Color, And Here's Why

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
FALL arrives in New York state like a prom queen, draped in boastful reds, yellows and rusty browns, perfumed with wood smoke. It saunters through the Appalachians and down the Catskills before taking its final bow in Westchester and New York City.
 The season is important here not only for the spectacle it creates, but also for the tourist economy it supports and the cultural symbol it represents; no season is more strongly identified with the Northeast than fall. Even 150 years ago, Henry David Thoreau realized how special it was.
''October is the month of painted leaves,'' Thoreau wrote in his 1862 essay ''Autumnal Tints.'' ''Their rich glow now flashes round the world.'' 
 But what if the glow wasn't so rich? 
 That is a question some scientists have already begun to ask, and they don't think it is hypothetical. Already this year, throughout the Northeast, the foliage has been late, and, some say, unspectacular. Scientists at the University of New Hampshire project that shifts in the climate caused by global warming will progressively dull the leaves throughout southern New England and New York over the next century. Maples will move north and the remaining oaks and hickories will change colors later and with less verve, they say. If the projections are correct, leaf-peepers may be forced as far north as Canada to for their fix of foliage. 
 Indeed, one scientist says autumn in the region has already lost its brilliance. 
 ''We haven't had a really great display in the last 10 years,'' said Barrett Rock, a professor in natural resources and a researcher at the Complex Systems Research Center at the University of New Hampshire who has studied the effects of global warming on the autumn landscape from New York to Maine. Dr. Rock was the lead author on a federally financed 2001 report, the New England Regional Assessment, that assessed the effects of climate change on the Northeast. 
 This year, the problem has been intense heat in late summer and early fall, which delayed the changing of the leaves and, Dr. Rock said, dulls the foliage. The average temperature in New York in August was 70.6 degrees, nearly 4 degrees higher than the average since 1895, and the fifth highest August average in that period, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The heat did not let up in September, when it was again 4 degrees warmer than average.
 But global warming is a gradual phenomenon, and one warm year does not mean that fall will be this warm every year.
 Nonetheless, scientists like Dr. Rock say there is ample reason to worry. 
 In the 2001 report, Dr. Rock and fellow researchers at the University of New Hampshire and other universities in the region found that New York's average temperature had increased by 1 degree over the last century. The scientists used two different models to project what the Northeast would look like over the next 100 years. 
 Both models, Dr. Rock noted in a telephone interview, are considered ''middle of the road,'' predicting gradual but not extreme warming trends. But both project that global warming will accelerate dramatically in the region. One forecasts an overall temperature increase of 6 degrees by 2090. That would leave Boston looking and feeling like Richmond, Va. The other model projected a climate like Atlanta's, a full 10 degrees warmer than Boston's, according to the report. 
 This year another University of New Hampshire environmental scientist, Cameron P. Wake, issued a report in conjunction with Clean Air Cool Planet, a nonprofit organization that studies climate change in the Northeast. Using different methods from the earlier study, the new report confirmed the warming trend in the Northeast throughout the 20th century, and showed it increasing over the last 30 years. That report did not focus on foliage but found other significant effects to plants and trees, including progressively later bloom dates for lilac trees. 
 The warming trends affect foliage in various ways, Dr. Rock said. As greenhouse gases accumulate and the earth warms, summer weather will linger into fall. That will delay the frosts that degrade chlorophyll and trigger leaves to change. It takes at least one frost in which temperatures fall to 30 degrees Fahrenheit or below to start the changes in the leaves. If those fall frosts are delayed, or the chlorophyll breaks down more gradually, leaf-peepers won't see the vibrant reds they have come to expect, Dr. Rock said. 
 Last week, Marian Travis was decorating a lamp post near her house in Ossining, N.Y., with colorful fake leaves when she realized that something felt wrong though she was getting her neighborhood ready for fall, it felt more like summer.
 ''It didn't even fell like fall,'' she said. ''It is fall by the calendar, so you have to put the decorations up.''
 Ms. Travis said she thinks fall has changed since she was a girl. ''I remember in the fall, I'd walk home from school and there were so many leaves in the street and the gutter,'' she said. ''They don't have them anymore. I don't think the fall is like what we used to have way back.''
 Global warming will affect which tree species can survive in the state and which will move north to cooler climates, scientists say. 
 Maples, with their stunning red, yellow and orange leaves, are beauties in the fall. Thoreau positively gushed over them, writing that they seem to absorb ''all the sunny warmth of the season.'' 
 New York is full of maples, too, but changes in temperature, air quality and rainfall, the 2001 report said, will change the mix of trees in the state's forests.
 Birches and beeches, two other species known for their foliage, can also be expected to migrate north, the report noted. 
 It details other possible effects of global warming on foliage, including increases in plant diseases and insect outbreaks. Warming also increases ground-level ozone, which can damage leaves. 
 But it is not just scientists who have a stake in the changing autumn landscape. The colors of fall are big business for New York's tourism industry. The state maintains a Web site (www.iloveny.com/fall/pages/foliagereport.html) that specifically tracks the progression of the foliage, enlisting about 55 volunteers from all over the state who call and write in to report the quality of the leaves in their areas. A map highlights the regions of the state where the foliage is brightest. 
 Leaf-peepers make up an important portion of New York's tourist population, said Charles Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, which runs the state's I Love New York tourism Web site (www.iloveny.state.ny.us/). Summer is the king of tourist seasons in the state, but fall still attracts 21 percent of the yearly visitors, he said. 
 ''Certainly, we depend on beautiful foliage,'' he said. ''A lot of people travel around the state to see the foliage.''
 Peter Barton, a member of the family that owns Barton Orchard, a ''pick-your-own'' farm in Poughquag that attracts more than 100,000 people in the fall, said the last decade has been marked by more extreme weather, another expected effect of global warming.
 ''From my point of view as a grower, the last decade we've seen much more volatility,'' he said. ''The storms have been more volatile.''
 He said he was concerned about the effect of global warming on plants, even if the increase in temperature isn't as much as 6 or 10 degrees.
 ''A simple 1 or 2 degree change can change the organisms that can exist here,'' he said.
 If that happens, and the autumn prom queen starts dressing in brown or dull green, autumn in New York could look a lot different.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Leaves like this are fairly rare at Barton Orchard, right, a ''pick-your-own'' farm in Poughquag. (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
(Photo by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Marian Travis in her Ossining yard, helping fall along with some colorful leaves. Left, a view of Barton's Orchard with barely tinged sugar maples. (Photo by Scott Mullin, left, and Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); CLIMATE CHANGE (79%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (73%); WRITERS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



331 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Attack of the Aliens

BYLINE: By Henry Tepper. 
Henry Tepper is director of the Nature Conservancy's New York State program.

 BODY:
NEWS that dreaded snakehead fish were found this summer living in a pond in Queens is worrisome but not that surprising. After all, the New York Police Department and the city's park rangers have been called on to deal with a fully grown Bengal tiger living in a Harlem apartment and a disoriented Burmese python out for a walk with its owner in Central Park. 
 Our Pleistocene mind is still wired to recoil at the thought of snakes, tigers and other major carnivores. But our brains have yet to catch up with the modern threats posed by the introduction of invasive species like the snakehead fish, the Asian long-horned beetle, the mile-a-minute weed and purple loosestrife. 
On their home turf, these plants and animals are kept in check by natural controls, like predators and limited food supplies. But when one of these species is introduced, accidentally or intentionally, into a new landscape -- one not adapted to its presence -- the consequences can be devastating. Unchecked, some invasive species can quickly spread, crowding out native species and costing billions in property damage and lost economic productivity. 
 Scientists estimate that thousands of new species are introduced each year around the world, and as many as 15 percent will become invasive species. While the percentage may seem small, it is one reason we now face the greatest extinction of native species since the death of dinosaurs. 
 The potential for catastrophic impact to New York State's society, economy and environment is very real because each time an invasive species takes hold, it rearranges the natural balance of life. As in a game of Russian roulette, the trigger is pulled with each new arrival. 
 New Yorkers now have the opportunity to do something. In response to this threat, Gov. George E. Pataki and the Legislature created a task force to explore the invasive species issue and give recommendations by next month. After working for more than a year, the task force (of which my organization is a part) issued a draft report in August. 
 The report tells us there is precious little time to waste as a number of species are poised to invade New York. The threats we face are chilling. Swede midge, which arrived from Canada last year, can destroy our broccoli, cauliflower and cabbage crops if it becomes established. Southern bacterial wilt, from Africa and South America, could contaminate our soils and drastically reduce the yields of potatoes, tomatoes, eggplant and peppers. Escaped bighead and silver carp from the Chicago River could seriously disrupt the ecology of New York waterways if they manage to crash through the electrical barrier that keeps them from entering the Great Lakes. The emerald ash borer has wreaked havoc in Michigan and is thought to be as close as London, Ontario. Chinese mitten crabs are for sale in live food markets in Manhattan and their release into the Hudson River could change the ecology of the estuary. 
 No silver bullet exists to stop the spread of invasive plants and creatures but there are things we can do. As recommended in the report, prevention, early detection, rapid response, control and management and education are still some of the best tools we have to protect our environment. 
 Invasive species cost the United States an estimated $120 billion a year, according to Cornell University. No figures are available for New York State, but we know the annual bill thus far for the eradication of the Asian long-horned beetle in New York City and on Long Island ranges from $13 million to $40 million per year. Tens of thousands of shade trees have been sacrificed to keep the pest from spreading and infecting hardwoods, sugar maples and the rest of our forestry stock. 
 West Nile virus, zebra mussels, chronic wasting disease, water chestnut, sea lamprey, swallowwort and watermilfoil are just a few examples of invasive species that have already cost tens of millions of dollars to control in New York.
 We can stack the odds in our favor if we take action now. The task force report is the first step toward a strong plan of action, but stronger statewide coordination and a $10 million dedicated annual budget by the Pataki administration and its successor are necessary for the near future. For the long term, however, the state needs a master plan to deal with snakeheads and all invasive species waiting at New York's gates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (84%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ANIMALS (78%); FISHES (78%); LAKES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (75%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (64%) Animals; Flowers and Plants

PERSON: henry tepper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); GREAT LAKES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (78%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



332 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Catskills Casino? We Need the Jobs

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Bad Bets in the Catskills'' (editorial, Sept. 25) doesn't discuss what is really needed in Sullivan County. I'm talking about jobs.
Visitors who once vacationed in our area can recall the busy Broadway in Monticello and Main Street in South Fallsburg and remember the family businesses that thrived for generations. They've now closed, leaving boarded-up stores, no pedestrian traffic and few jobs. 
 The per capita incomes in Sullivan County are below $19,000, with 16.3 percent of the population and 11.6 percent of families living below the poverty line.
 Why would anyone suggest that gamblers from New York State continue to take their money and business to New Jersey and Connecticut without pursuing ways to keep those dollars and jobs in our state? 
 Your contention that casinos in Sullivan County would hurt the environment is absurd. The proposed Monticello Raceway site is not even near the Neversink River nor the Shawangunk Ridge. Monticello Raceway is an established gaming location. No fishing streams nor pristine forests would be ''sliced and diced by roads and traffic'' should a casino be built at the raceway. 
 The only thing that is getting sliced and diced is our many union men and women who live in Sullivan County who can't find work.
 The vast majority of the land-use experts, constituents and other Sullivan County residents I have spoken with have said that Monticello Raceway would be a natural location for a casino that would not disturb our environment. This is an opportunity for Sullivan County to establish higher-paying jobs, which in turn would increase our per capita wages, providing a stronger tax base.
 Our economy is seasonal. We need year-round jobs desperately, jobs that support the merchants who live and work in Sullivan County. Unlike neighboring Orange County, with its cities and suburban malls, Sullivan County has only two major grocery stores and a few small malls. We also have more tax-exempt property than most other counties in the state, meaning that we need to find ways of building our tax base.

Anthony P. Cellini
Supervisor, Town of Thompson
Monticello, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); GAMING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); FAMILY (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); TAX LAW (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); POVERTY RATES (70%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (68%); LAND USE PLANNING (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); SUBURBS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (55%) Gambling; Labor; Casinos; Editorials

PERSON: anthony (supervisor) cellini

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Sullivan County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



333 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Attack of the Aliens

BYLINE: By Henry Tepper. 
Henry Tepper is director of the Nature Conservancy's New York State program.

 BODY:
NEWS that dreaded snakehead fish were found this summer living in a pond in Queens is worrisome but not that surprising. After all, the New York Police Department and the city's park rangers have been called on to deal with a fully grown Bengal tiger living in a Harlem apartment and a disoriented Burmese python out for a walk with its owner in Central Park. 
 Our Pleistocene mind is still wired to recoil at the thought of snakes, tigers and other major carnivores. But our brains have yet to catch up with the modern threats posed by the introduction of invasive species like the snakehead fish, the Asian long-horned beetle, the mile-a-minute weed and purple loosestrife. 
On their home turf, these plants and animals are kept in check by natural controls, like predators and limited food supplies. But when one of these species is introduced, accidentally or intentionally, into a new landscape -- one not adapted to its presence -- the consequences can be devastating. Unchecked, some invasive species can quickly spread, crowding out native species and costing billions in property damage and lost economic productivity. 
 Scientists estimate that thousands of new species are introduced each year around the world, and as many as 15 percent will become invasive species. While the percentage may seem small, it is one reason we now face the greatest extinction of native species since the death of dinosaurs. 
 The potential for catastrophic impact to New York State's society, economy and environment is very real because each time an invasive species takes hold, it rearranges the natural balance of life. As in a game of Russian roulette, the trigger is pulled with each new arrival. 
 New Yorkers now have the opportunity to do something. In response to this threat, Gov. George E. Pataki and the Legislature created a task force to explore the invasive species issue and give recommendations by next month. After working for more than a year, the task force (of which my organization is a part) issued a draft report in August. 
 The report tells us there is precious little time to waste as a number of species are poised to invade New York. The threats we face are chilling. Swede midge, which arrived from Canada last year, can destroy our broccoli, cauliflower and cabbage crops if it becomes established. Southern bacterial wilt, from Africa and South America, could contaminate our soils and drastically reduce the yields of potatoes, tomatoes, eggplant and peppers. Escaped bighead and silver carp from the Chicago River could seriously disrupt the ecology of New York waterways if they manage to crash through the electrical barrier that keeps them from entering the Great Lakes. The emerald ash borer has wreaked havoc in Michigan and is thought to be as close as London, Ontario. Chinese mitten crabs are for sale in live food markets in Manhattan and their release into the Hudson River could change the ecology of the estuary. 
 No silver bullet exists to stop the spread of invasive plants and creatures but there are things we can do. As recommended in the report, prevention, early detection, rapid response, control and management and education are still some of the best tools we have to protect our environment. 
 Invasive species cost the United States an estimated $120 billion a year, according to Cornell University. No figures are available for New York State, but we know the annual bill thus far for the eradication of the Asian long-horned beetle in New York City and on Long Island ranges from $13 million to $40 million per year. Tens of thousands of shade trees have been sacrificed to keep the pest from spreading and infecting hardwoods, sugar maples and the rest of our forestry stock. 
 West Nile virus, zebra mussels, chronic wasting disease, water chestnut, sea lamprey, swallowwort and watermilfoil are just a few examples of invasive species that have already cost tens of millions of dollars to control in New York.
 We can stack the odds in our favor if we take action now. The task force report is the first step toward a strong plan of action, but stronger statewide coordination and a $10 million dedicated annual budget by the Pataki administration and its successor are necessary for the near future. For the long term, however, the state needs a master plan to deal with snakeheads and all invasive species waiting at New York's gates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (84%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ANIMALS (78%); FISHES (78%); LAKES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (75%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (64%) Animals; Flowers and Plants

PERSON: henry tepper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); GREAT LAKES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (78%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



334 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; L.I. @ WORK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Limit Gas-Price Shock to Just Once a Day

BYLINE: By STACY ALBIN

 BODY:
IN the wake of Hurricane Katrina, gasoline stations sometimes changed their prices two or three times a day. The rapid changes left many Long Islanders scratching their heads over how gas prices are set. And it led to the introduction of a bill in the State Senate that would restrict service station owners to just one price increase every 24 hours. 
 Gas prices are set in two ways, according to Eric DeGesero, executive vice president of the Fuel Merchants Association of New Jersey. One method, he said, is based on New York Mercantile Exchange prices for gasoline futures -- bulk contracts to deliver fuel on a set date in the future. 
The second method is used by major oil companies like ExxonMobil, which refine their own fuel and generally do not buy much gasoline on the commodities markets, Mr. DeGesero said. 
 Kathryn Odessa, the executive director of the Long Island Gasoline Retailers Association, said that service stations usually raise their prices in response to actions by wholesalers. Most dealers lease their stations from a major oil company, she said, and are required to buy their gas only from that company. Any time the price of oil increases, the oil companies quickly pass the cost along to the dealers, Ms. Odessa said.
 And after Katrina, prices shot up. A gallon of regular unleaded cost as much as $3.79 at a station in Cedarhurst on Sept. 8, according to NewYorkGasPrices.com, a Web site where drivers report the prices they see posted.
 By last Tuesday, the Web site showed prices on Long Island ranging from $2.69 to $3.05 for a gallon of regular unleaded.
 Passing on wholesale price increases quickly to consumers is a nationwide practice for dealers, said Mr. DeGesero. Any increase in futures contracts for unleaded gasoline has an immediate effect at the pumps, because representatives from major oil companies phone or e-mail dealers to inform them of a wholesale price change for the next day, said Mr. DeGesero and Omar Koseoglu, who owns a Citgo station in Point Lookout. In especially tumultuous situations, like the weeks following Katrina, some wholesalers changed their prices two or three times a day.
 Irwin Kellner, a professor of economics at Hofstra University and the chief economist for North Fork Bank, said that gas stations typically base their prices on what it will cost to refill their tanks, a principle called replacement-cost theory, which he said is used by many businesses that constantly replenish inventories. Stations typically have one to three days' supply in their tanks.
 Oil companies do not require service stations to peg their cost of gas directly to replacement cost, said Mr. Koseoglu, who has 25 years' experience in the gasoline business, including ownership of a station in Point Lookout. He said that a station's cost of labor, rent and utilities all go into setting the final gas price at the station, and that a dealer's profit on gasoline is usually 5 to 10 per cent. When prices are very high, ''you make less than 5 percent,'' he said. ''You can't make too much, because the gas prices are too high.''
 Competitors' prices are also a factor. Mr. Koseoglu said he tried to keep his prices as low as possible, in order to compete with the Mobil and Hess stations three miles away in Long Beach. 
 The pending legislation would limit replacement-cost increases when prices fluctuate rapidly. 
 ''Consumers must be protected from unscrupulous retailers looking to capitalize on the current situation,'' the bill, sponsored by Senator Carl L. Marcellino of Syosset, proclaims. ''Price gouging at the pump is a potentially serious epidemic in this climate.'' The bill, which would impose a $1,000 fine for each violation, passed the Senate by 56 votes to 3 on Sept. 20. The Assembly has not yet considered such a bill.
 The Senate measure would not affect wholesalers. But Ms. Odessa said that the proposed legislation would be unfair and ineffective, because gasoline pricing is a complicated matter that is for the most part beyond the control of service station owners. 
 For example, she said, state law prohibits stations from selling gas at less than 95 percent of its cost. That law, which was enacted in 2003 and expires in April 2007, was meant to keep dealers from using predatory pricing to gain market share, according to the Empire State Petroleum Association, in Albany. 
 Legislating the price at the pump is not the answer, Mr. DeGesero said, adding that a New Jersey law similar to the proposed New York legislation, on the books since 1938, had not restrained prices.
 ''Oil companies make their money on the exploration and refining end of the business,'' Mr. DeGesero said. ''One common benchmark for the financial health of the major oil companies is the difference between what they pay for a barrel of crude and what they get for the refined products that come from a barrel of crude.'' 
 The difference, known as crack spread, was $4 to $10 a barrel in the 1990's, Mr. DeGesero said. Since early 2000, the crack spread has risen to $20 a barrel and then $30 a barrel immediately after Katrina, he said.
 Citing statistics from the Energy Information Administration, which is part of the United States Department of Energy, Mr. DeGesero said that average crude oil prices had increased from $24.10 a barrel in 2002 to $28.53 in 2003 and $36.97 in 2004. This year, the price was more than $40 a barrel until early spring, when it jumped to more than $60.
 Retail prices have followed crude prices, rising to an average of $2.90 a gallon for unleaded regular in New York last Monday, from $2.09 a year ago, NewYorkGasPrices.com reported. 
 Mr. DeGesero said it was hard to tell how much of the increase in crude oil prices was driven only by supply and demand. The International Energy Agency in Paris says worldwide demand for crude oil has increased to about 84 million barrels a day, of which the United States consumes about 22 million.
 ''I'd be angry if I were a consumer,'' Mr. DeGesero said. ''I don't like paying more for the gas I put in my car. But I wouldn't like it even more if I couldn't get any.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Omar Koseoglu, a station owner in Point Lookout, uses several factors to set prices, including the cost to replace what he is selling and prices at a Hess station a few miles away. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); GAS STATIONS (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); WHOLESALERS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); RETAILERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WEATHER (73%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Law and Legislation; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Futures and Options Trading; Garages and Service Stations

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (56%); COF (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Carl (Sen) Marcellino; Stacy Albin; omar koseoglu

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York State; Louisiana; Gulf of Mexico; Mississippi 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



335 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: Catskills Casino? We Need the Jobs

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Bad Bets in the Catskills'' (editorial, Sept. 25) doesn't discuss what is really needed in Sullivan County. I'm talking about jobs.
Visitors who once vacationed in our area can recall the busy Broadway in Monticello and Main Street in South Fallsburg and remember the family businesses that thrived for generations. They've now closed, leaving boarded-up stores, no pedestrian traffic and few jobs. 
 The per capita incomes in Sullivan County are below $19,000, with 16.3 percent of the population and 11.6 percent of families living below the poverty line.
 Why would anyone suggest that gamblers from within New York State continue to take their money and business to New Jersey and Connecticut without actively pursuing ways to keep those dollars and jobs in our state? 
 Your contention that casinos in Sullivan County would hurt the environment is absurd. The proposed Monticello Raceway site is not even near the Neversink River nor the Shawangunk Ridge. Monticello Raceway is an established gaming location. No fishing streams nor pristine forests would be ''sliced and diced by roads and traffic'' should a casino be built at the raceway. 
 The only thing that is getting sliced and diced is our many union men and women who live in Sullivan County who can't find work.
 The vast majority of the land-use experts, constituents and other Sullivan County residents I have spoken with have said that Monticello Raceway would be a natural location for a casino that would not disturb our environment. This is an opportunity for Sullivan County to establish higher-paying jobs, which in turn would increase our per capita wages, providing a stronger tax base.
 Our economy is seasonal. We need year-round jobs desperately, jobs that support the merchants who live and work in Sullivan County. Unlike neighboring Orange County, with its cities and suburban malls, Sullivan County has only two major grocery stores and a few small malls. We also have more tax-exempt property than most other counties in the state, meaning that we need to find ways of building our tax base.

Anthony P. Cellini
Supervisor, Town of Thompson
Monticello, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); FAMILY (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); POVERTY RATES (70%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (68%); LAND USE PLANNING (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); SUBURBS (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



336 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2165 words

HEADLINE: Reaching Out For All the Help They Can Get

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: SCOTCH PLAINS 

 BODY:
WITH Rudolph W. Giuliani at his side, Douglas R. Forrester seemed like a different man. ''We love you Doug,'' one man shouted as Mr. Forrester beamed.
 Clearly buoyed by his companion as well as a surge in recent opinion polls, Mr. Forrester said: ''Oh, wait until that hits politicsnj,'' referring to a popular political Web site. ''We're not going to go down that path again.''
Not one usually known for his light touch or his embrace of the risque remark, Mr. Forrester may have felt emboldened on Wednesday afternoon by the presence of the talismanic former mayor of New York City, who had come to campaign for him at a modest Knights of Columbus hall here. 
 ''Another reason we're going to win this thing,'' Mr. Forrester said at one point as Mr. Giuliani smiled approvingly, ''is that we are getting help from some of our friends who are national figures, and we've got one of the best here with us.''
 With that, the crowd of about 150 party stalwarts, studded with local officials, launched into a chant of ''Rudy! Rudy!''
 It was just the sort of lift that Mr. Forrester and his Democratic opponent, Senator Jon S. Corzine, are desperate for these days as they look longingly to the brightest lights in their respective parties to define their opponents and themselves to a crucial clutch of undecided voters. 
 ''Neither candidate has found a compelling argument that knocks out the other or is decisive for their candidacy,'' said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, director of the Annenberg Public Policy Center of the University of Pennsylvania. ''It's like when there's parity in commercial products. After you've thrown everything at the other side, you bring in everything else you can and try to give this the standing of a national contest.''
 So it was hardly a coincidence that while Mr. Giuliani was venturing to Scotch Plains on a rain-soaked Wednesday afternoon, John Edwards, the former North Carolina senator and vice presidential nominee, was attending a luncheon at the New Jersey Center for the Performing Arts.
 And although the $1,500-a-plate gathering was organized by the state's Democratic Assembly Campaign Committee and Mr. Corzine was off stumping in another part of the state, Mr. Edwards took the opportunity to praise the gubernatorial candidate's ''strength, character and leadership.''

Embracing the Moment
 The added jolt provided by national politicians with marquee names is sure to be embraced by candidates and crowds alike. After all, the electorate has hardly been transfixed by the race, which has seemed to many potential voters to be an exchange of indistinguishable and nasty charges between two candidates making the same grand promises about lowering property taxes and raising the ethical bar.
 So what if some of those voters are too unfamiliar with Mr. Forrester to take his word that he is not -- as the Corzine campaign has repeatedly implied -- a right-wing Trojan horse who would be a captive of the Bush administration?
 Let them ask Mr. Giuliani or Senator Mel Martinez of Florida, who visited the state last weekend, or John McCain, the iconic senator from Arizona who is coming to New Jersey next week, or even the likeable first lady, Laura Bush.
 And for those who are starting to believe, as Forrester supporters insist, that Mr. Corzine is little more than an ethically conflicted multimillionaire trying to buy his way to the state's most powerful office? 
 Well, they only have to listen to the most magnetic Democrat of all these days, former President Bill Clinton, who said at a recent rally at Kean University that Mr. Corzine, a former chairman of Goldman Sachs, was the most qualified candidate for governor he had ever seen. Or to John Kerry, last year's Democratic presidential candidate, who also campaigned for Mr. Corzine. Or to the former Senate majority leader, George Mitchell, who appeared with Mr. Corzine in Belmar last week. 
 In the days ahead, New Jerseyans will also be treated to the sight of two of Mr. Corzine's more celebrated colleagues: Senator Hillary Clinton of New York, who will no doubt attest to Mr. Corzine's virtues at a pair of fund-raising events this week, and Senator Barack Obama of Illinois -- the most electrifying speaker at the Democratic National Convention in 2004 -- who has also agreed to campaign.
 While these high-profile surrogates will not fundamentally alter the dynamic of the race -- people vote for the candidates, or so the political axiom goes, and not for those who endorse them -- they can serve an important motivational function in a race like the one under way in New Jersey, which the latest polls show to have closed to a single-digit lead for Mr. Corzine. 
 ''They shore up the party base, making sure that the faithful turn out, and they show that they think the races are important, which sometimes they aren't,'' said Larry Sabato, a political science professor at the University of Virginia.
 In the case of the current campaign, voters have only just begun to tune into a race that had been considered uninteresting with a result that is a foregone conclusion. ''New Jersey is a heavily Democratic state and Corzine has been expected to win by just about everybody,'' Mr. Sabato said. 
 But with the latest poll numbers -- a WNBC/Marist survey made public on Tuesday showed Mr. Corzine's lead at a single percentage point, a virtual dead heat -- and a greater focus on the opponents, their nationally prominent advocates serve the increasingly important function of at once grabbing the headlines and deflecting potentially damaging attacks. 
 For Mr. Forrester, the challenge is to show that he is a different sort of Republican than President George W. Bush, whose approval rating in New Jersey has slipped to a dismal 34 percent, according to a recent Star-Ledger/Eagleton-Rutgers poll. 
 And for its part, the Corzine campaign is running commercials calling him ''George Bush's choice'' for governor, and has taken up where Frank Lautenberg left off in his successful Senate campaign in 2002 by calling attention to what they say are Mr. Forrester's common positions with the Bush administration on visceral issues like new laws banning assault weapons and government financing for some types of embryonic stem cell research.
 Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey, arguably the most popular Democrat in the state these days, went so far last week as to dare the Forrester campaign to invite President Bush to the state to campaign.
 For now, Mr. Forrester says ''there are no plans to do so.''
 Instead, Mr. Forrester has responded by tying himself to Republicans from the moderate wing of the party, including former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, who is currently appearing in a Forrester campaign ad in which he explicitly vouches for the candidate's credentials on abortion rights. 
 ''He's a moderate,'' Mr. Kean says of Mr. Forrester, who was pension director in his administration. ''He supports a woman's right to choose.''
 As David Rebovich, a political science professor at Rider University, said: ''The Tom Kean ad was one of the most memorable of the campaign so far. It's been absolutely essential for Forrester to establish his moderate credentials, and it seems like it's more effective when it's not coming from him.''
 In much the same way, visits from such luminaries as Mr. Giuliani and Mr. McCain as well as Mr. Martinez, a prominent Hispanic member of the Republican firmament, are designed to frame Mr. Forrester as an independent-thinking and moderately disposed member of a party whose center of gravity is in the culturally conservative regions of the South and West.
 By contrast, it is Democrats and not Mr. Forrester who are going out of their way to talk about visits to the state by Vice President Dick Cheney and Mr. Bush's chief political adviser, Karl Rove -- two distinctly conservative and polarizing figures who attended low-key yet highly profitable fund-raising events here for the Republican candidate earlier this year.
 The dilemma for Mr. Forrester, and one that Corzine aides delight in pointing out, is that there are many Republicans in New Jersey who are opposed to abortion rights and gun control, and who vote in large part on those issues. 
 As the final weeks of the campaign unfold, the challenge for Mr. Forrester will be to appeal to middle-of-the-road independent voters without alienating the core conservatives whose support will be crucial for him to become the 52nd elected governor of New Jersey.
 ''If you're Doug Forrester you do want to have the best of both worlds,'' Mr. Rebovich said. ''You don't want to be associated with the administration but you have to find a way to satisfy your base and give public the impression that you are respected in national circles.''
 The calculations for Mr. Corzine are quite different. For more than a decade, the state's electorate has been leaning Democratic in national elections, meaning that unlike Mr. Forrester, he can benefit from his perceived links to the national party. 
 Rather, Mr. Corzine's problem stems from his relationships with such Democrats as former Gov. James E. McGreevey and former Senator Robert Torricelli, both of whom removed themselves from public office under ethical clouds, as well as Charles Kushner, a developer and major Democratic fund-raiser with whom he tried to purchase the New Jersey Nets. 
 Mr. Kushner later pleaded guilty to federal charges of tax evasion, making illegal campaign contributions and witness intimidation. 
 As infrequently as he likes to talk about it, Mr. Corzine first came to prominence in the state party during his Senate campaign in 2000, largely on the strength of his generous contributions to powerful local Democratic leaders and organizations. Similarly, his millions of dollars in contributions helped him line up the support from county bosses earlier this year to force Mr. Codey out of a possible run for governor.
 Mr. Corzine, for his part, has been somewhat erratic in his efforts to put some distance between those party figures and himself.
 Despite the fact that he talks regularly to Mr. Torricelli, his primary political mentor when he entered politics, Mr. Corzine said in an interview several months ago that their relationship was overblown by the news media and that ''most of the folks on my team are not really thrilled with Bob Torricelli.'' 
 And in response to a question about words of praise he had for Mr. McGreevey this summer, Mr. Corzine said during the last week's debate, broadcast on the radio station known as New Jersey 101.5, that Mr. McGreevey had ''failed as a governor,'' characterizing his previous comments as mere political niceties.

Costly, Yet Uninspiring
 It was hardly inspiring stuff, but that could be said of much of what voters have been hearing from the candidates in the course of watching their combined $30 million worth of advertising. 
 In fact, things have become so blurred that a race that was once billed both as a referendum on the Democrats running New Jersey and on the Republicans running the United States may turn out to be neither.
 For instance, political analysts are looking to the governor's race in Virginia and not New Jersey -- the only two such contests in the country in this off year -- as a sort of measure of Mr. Bush's popularity.
 Indeed, with the president's national approval rating at 39 percent in a recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll, it is not unreasonable to expect that the Republican candidate there may pay a political price for the problems swirling around the White House: a sluggish economy, serious concerns about slow progress in Iraq, the administration's perceived mishandling of Hurricane Katrina and the much-maligned nomination of Harriet Miers to the United States Supreme Court.
 New Jersey, on the other hand, is more complicated. For many voters, the financial and ethical problems in Trenton have rivaled anything they have seen from the Republican-controlled White House and Congress. And according to the Star Ledger/Eagleton-Rutgers poll, voters are just as likely to associate Mr. Corzine with Mr. McGreevey's problems as they are to link Mr. Forrester with the president's.
 ''Right now, it's feeling kind of random,'' said Jennifer Duffy, a political analyst for The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter. ''I think that if Bush is hurting Forrester, McGreevey is hurting Corzine at about the same level.''
 In the closing days and weeks of the campaign, it may well be up to the high-profile surrogates to do what both candidates have not: bring excitement to a somewhat tawdry campaign that has yet to capture New Jersey's attention.
 ''This election will be determined in large measure by the impressions people have that will be gleaned by the information they get over the last week or so,'' said former Gov. Jim Florio. ''There's just so much going on the world that is of concern to people that this has not appeared to be a high value item in terms of their attention.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Rudolph W. Giuliani with Douglas Forrester. (Photo by Warren Westura)(pg. 1)
Douglas Forrester, the Republican candidate for governor, with Vice President Dick Cheney at a fund-raiser in Plainsboro. Right, Mr. Forrester with Rudolph W. Giuliani last Wednesday in Scotch Plains. (Photo by Mike Derer/Associated Press)
(Photo by Warren Westura for The New York Times)
Bill Clinton campaigning with Senator Jon S. Corzine. At left, John Edwards, the former North Carolina senator and vice presidential nominee, at a Democratic fund-raiser in Newark where he was also campaigning for Mr. Corzine. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); GOVERNORS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (57%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813410 CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); SIC8641 CIVIC, SOCIAL, & FRATERNAL ASSOCIATIONS (56%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (92%); JON CORZINE (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (77%); BILL CLINTON (57%); DICK CHENEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (71%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



337 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Another Option to Consider for Plum Island 

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
MICHAEL CHERTOFF, the secretary of Homeland Security, has agreed to consider upgrading the Plum Island Animal Disease Center at its current security level instead of replacing it with a new $450 million center on the island or elsewhere for research of biological terrorism.
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, and Representative Timothy Bishop, Democrat of Southampton, said they gained the agreement to consider keeping the lab's Biosafety Level 3 status during a meeting with Mr. Chertoff earlier this month. Both are trying to save the lab, its 200 jobs and its current operations, studying foreign animal diseases that are not lethal to humans.
The Department of Homeland Security announced in August that it would study a biological and agriculture defense facility to replace Plum Island, but the department did not specify whether it would be on the island or somewhere else. 
 A new center researching bioterrorism and agroterrorism, the use of biological agents to harm the nation's food supply, would almost certainly have Level 4 status, the highest security designation for labs. 
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Bishop said in a telephone conference with reporters after the meeting that they told Mr. Chertoff that they and the vast majority of their constituents opposed a Biosafety Level 4 laboratory on the 840-acre island. Level 4 status would allow research on diseases fatal to humans and animals and with no known cure.
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Bishop said Mr. Chertoff had not renewed a pledge by Tom Ridge, the former secretary of Homeland Security, that Plum Island would remain at Level 3. But they said they argued that the work done at Plum Island now was crucial and warranted upgrading the 50-year-old laboratory to continue at Level 3 designation. 
 ''The calculus changes dramatically if you get a Biosafety Level 4 that is looking at human diseases and even looking at how animal viruses and pathogens jump from the animal world to the human world, and it just is very hard to justify putting that kind of facility in the midst of one of the most populated areas where workers would be going back and forth all the time,'' Mrs. Clinton said.
 Mr. Bishop said a Level 4 lab on Plum Island could allow study of diseases like avian flu, which has killed millions of birds in nearly a dozen countries and infected more than 100 people, including 60 who died.
 ''Level 4 laboratories study diseases for which there is no vaccine or therapy and they are highly dangerous, life-threatening diseases that can be transmitted to humans,'' he said. ''Our concern is to introduce that to the North Fork of Long Island is just something that we don't consider to be in the public interest.'' 
 Plum Island is about a mile and a half off the end of the North Fork. Its staff of 100 scientists and 100 support workers commute by ferry from Orient Point and Connecticut.
 Level 4 labs for research on human pathogens are at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta and Fort Detrick in Frederick, Md. More than 10 Level 4 labs are operating or planned elsewhere.
 Representative Peter T. King, Republican of Seaford and chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, gave qualified support to Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Bishop. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Mr. King said that he would work with them and Mr. Chertoff ''in attempting to find a way to upgrade Plum Island to continue research at a Biosafety Level 3 in a manner consistent with our homeland security needs.''
 But Roger Breeze, the Plum Island laboratory director from 1987 to 1995, said that New York could not compete for the new center, which is scheduled to open in 2011, unless it supported Level 4. ''When the competition is for a combined BSL 3 and BSL 4 facility and you are only proposing a BSL 3, you are not a competitor,'' Dr. Breeze said.
 The Level 3 lab at Plum Island is designed to allow research on diseases, like foot-and-mouth disease, that are highly infectious in animals but far less dangerous to humans. Plum Island employs negative air pressure, sealed laboratories and rigorous shower and cleaning routines to keep biological agents from escaping. All animals used in research are incinerated on the island. 
 In a Level 4 lab, scientists studying deadly human and animal diseases would wear full-body protective suits fitted for piped-in air, and security would be tightened.
 Asked if Mr. Chertoff seemed willing to consider upgrading the island laboratory without adding Level 4, Mrs. Clinton said: ''He was open to that. He said he was going to be guided by the scientists who he has appointed to look into this.'' 
 Valerie Smith, a spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland Security, confirmed Tuesday that Mr. Chertoff had agreed to look at upgrading Plum Island as a Level 3 lab as part of the study. ''All options are on the table,'' she said. ''We are open to proposals from officials and groups across the county.''
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Bishop said they requested that the study look not only at keeping the laboratory at Level 3 but also at the cost of closing it and cleaning up the island. ''If these assessments are made objectively and accurately, then Plum Island will get the consideration it deserves,'' Mrs. Clinton said.
 She and Mr. Bishop said they also sought assurances that other types of security-related research would continue on the island if Homeland Security abandoned the lab. They mentioned Stony Brook University, Brookhaven National Laboratory and the Cold Spring Harbor laboratory as possible users. 
 David Kapell, the mayor of Greenport, said that by opposing a Level 4 lab, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Bishop had assured that the lab would close. 
 ''It is a pipe dream to think that the lab will survive on Plum Island if it is not allowed to expand to Biosafety Level 4,'' he said. ''Ruling Level 4 out effectively seals its fate and invites any other community out there to steal our lab from us.''
 Mr. Kapell said his village board recently passed a resolution supporting a Level 4 lab. 
 But Anne Hopkins, the president of the Orient Association, said she and others had misgivings about trying to save the laboratory.
 ''Maybe it has outlived its function,'' she said. ''Suppose the laboratory were given up. Couldn't Plum Island become a fantastic place for another purpose, whether housing or scientific research or some combination that would provide just as many jobs and opportunities? Let's not jump in right away and say it has to be saved as an animal research lab.''
 Joshua Y. Horton, the supervisor for the Town of Southold, said that closing the lab would be a ''staggering blow'' to the North Fork economy and that the possibility compelled consideration of Level 4 status. 
 ''There would be a lot of opposition from the residential community at first because I don't think there is a real understanding of the implications of Level 4,'' he said.
 Gwynn Schroeder, the executive director of the North Fork Environmental Council in Mattituck, said the absence of an evacuation plan made Level 4 too great a risk. She said that if the lab closed, jobs would be created by a remediation project and by new research on the island. 
 Ms. Hopkins said she and people she knew were apprehensive that the laboratory would be upgraded to Level 4. ''We don't want Biosafety Level 4,'' she said. ''That's got us very concerned.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The animal disease center on Plum Island, below left, which is about a mile and a half off the end of the North Fork, employs 200 people. (Photos by above, Associated Press
 United States Department of Agriculture)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (77%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (73%); VACCINES (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); VIRUSES (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); INFLUENZA (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TIMOTHY H BISHOP (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



338 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Detectives' Union Backs Mayor Despite Pledge by Ferrer

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg received the support of the city's police detectives yesterday despite a campaign promise earlier in the week by his rival, Fernando Ferrer, to spare the police force from budget cuts.
 The Detectives' Endowment Association, the union that represents 15,000 current and retired police detectives, announced the endorsement at a news conference during which its members presented the mayor with a lapel pin of a detective's gold shield set against an American flag.
In the 2001 mayoral election, the union endorsed Mr. Bloomberg's rival, Mark Green. 
 But Michael J. Palladino, the union's president, said yesterday that Mr. Bloomberg had earned its backing with his commitment to public safety and his support for law enforcement activities, ranging from routine patrols to counterterrorism operations. 
 ''Mayor Bloomberg inherited this city in a state of both fiscal and physical disarray following the 9/11 attack,'' Mr. Palladino said. ''He made some difficult and some unpopular decisions to bring back the city to fiscal stability.''
 During a mayoral forum on Friday, Mr. Ferrer said he would not cut funding to the city's police force if elected. 
 Mr. Bloomberg has made no such commitments. His administration cut $412.5 million this year from the Police Department's budget as part of an overall reduction of city expenses. Next year, city officials face a projected budget gap of $4.5 billion.
 Mr. Palladino said that Mr. Ferrer's promise of no cuts to police funding was not enough to sway his group. 
 The union's endorsement comes as its members are negotiating with the city for a new contract; the previous contract expired in February 2004. 
 Mr. Palladino said the two issues were separate, though he acknowledged the endorsement could not hurt. ''How well could I do at the bargaining table if I'm negotiating with Mayor Bloomberg but I'm endorsing somebody else?'' he asked. 
 Mr. Bloomberg campaigned yesterday in Brooklyn before speaking at a memorial service in Staten Island to commemorate the second anniversary of the crash of the ferry Andrew J. Barberi that killed 11 people. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Ferrer, who is of Puerto Rican descent, traveled to Puerto Rico to meet with its governor, Anibal Acevedo-Vila, and to attend a fund-raiser organized by the Puerto Rico for Ferrer Committee. 
 Mr. Acevedo-Vila told The Associated Press yesterday that Puerto Ricans should urge their family members in New York City to vote for Mr. Ferrer.
 ''Fernando Ferrer represents the best of those Puerto Ricans who for many reasons decided to live in the United States, but who never forgot their roots here in Puerto Rico,'' Mr. Acevedo-Vila said. 
 Mr. Ferrer was to return to New York early today.
 Last week, Mr. Ferrer was endorsed by the Empire State Pride Agenda, a gay rights group. The group's executive director, Alan Van Capelle, cited Mr. Ferrer's support for gay marriages and Mr. Bloomberg's decision to appeal a state court ruling allowing gay couples to marry.
 The mayor, who has said he personally supports gay marriage, has said that it would be illegal for him to authorize it until the courts clarified the law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (93%); BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITIES (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); FUNDRAISING (73%); TERRORISM (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); COUNTERTERRORISM (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



339 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 10-16-05: RECONSIDERATION; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2215 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Ancestors

BYLINE: By Sean Wilentz. 
Sean Wilentz is a professor of American history at Princeton. His new book, ''The Rise of American Democracy,'' is out this month from W.W. Norton.''

 BODY:
Ever since Ronald Reagan's election in 1980, the strength of American conservatism has largely confounded historians and intellectuals. Before then, a generation of influential scholars claimed that liberalism was the core of all American political thinking and suggested that it always would be. Well into the 1970's, many observers wondered whether a Republican Party that allied itself with the conservative movement could long survive. 
History has, to say the least, disproved these judgments. Yet many prominent liberals continue to see contemporary conservatism as a rhetorical smoke screen intended to deceive the masses -- even as conservatives often trace their movement back no farther than William F. Buckley Jr.'s founding of National Review in 1955, fusing religious and pro-business-minded voters. Such thinking, however, slights the coherence and durability of conservative politics in America. The blend of businessmen's aversion to government regulation, down-home cultural populism and Christian moralism that sustains today's Republican Party is a venerable if loosely knit philosophy of government dating back to long before the right-wing upsurge that prepared the way for Reagan's presidency. A few pundits and political insiders have likened the current Republicans to the formidable, corporate-financed political machine behind President William McKinley at the end of the 19th century. The admiration Karl Rove has expressed for the machine strengthens the historical connection. Yet neither conservatives nor liberals have fully recognized that the Bush administration's political and ideological recipe was invented decades before McKinley by a nearly forgotten American institution: the Whig Party of the 1830's and 40's. 
 The Whigs arose in 1834 to oppose Andrew Jackson's anti-elitist Democratic Party. Furious at Jackson's destruction of the privately controlled, all-powerful Second Bank of the United States and his forceful claims for presidential authority, the Whigs built a national following dedicated to protecting business and reducing federal economic regulation. Enriching the rich, they proclaimed, would eventually enrich everyone else. By combining a pro-business conservatism geared to the common man with an evangelical Christian view of social virtues and vices, they won the presidency twice in the 1840's and controlled either the House or the Senate for most of the decade. In the Senate, the legendary Henry Clay of Kentucky and Daniel Webster of Massachusetts magnified the Whig Party's influence far beyond Capitol Hill with the power of their oratory. Insofar as perennial themes shape our politics, it is remarkable how so many of contemporary conservatism's central ideas and slogans renovate old Whig appeals.
 The Opportunity Society and the Attack on Big Government: Modern conservatism rests on the proposition that Democrats and liberals thrive on a huge, wasteful federal bureaucracy that discourages individual initiative and lavishes public money on the liberals' shiftless political base. In his first Inaugural Address, Reagan denounced ''government by an elite group,'' by which he unmistakably meant parasitic liberal Democrats.
 In the 1830's and 40's, Whigs said much the same about the Jacksonians. They charged that President Jackson had established an executive tyranny, while Jackson's followers, as the Whig journalist Horace Greeley wrote, had turned government into ''an agency mainly of corruption, oppression and robbery.'' In defiance of Jacksonian despotism, one North Carolinian declared in an 1835 editorial, the Whigs rallied ''in defense of LIBERTY against POWER.'' The Whigs particularly objected, like Reagan and his successors, to federal regulation of business and financial matters. A typical Whig editorial from 1837 denounced the Democrats for warring on ''the merchants and mercantile interests'' in order to support federal power.
 A century and a half before Reagan's election, the Whigs worked out the basic ideas of supply-side, trickle-down economics. They acclaimed the romance of risk and private investment and a compelling but simplistic view of America as, in one widely used Whig phrase, ''a country of self-made men.'' These views would reappear in Reagan's and Newt Gingrich's celebrations of a coming ''opportunity society,'' later reformulated by George W. Bush as the ''ownership society.'' The Whigs also dismissed the Jacksonians' attacks on the privileged classes as demagogic -- much as Bush, running in 2000 as a unifying ''compassionate conservative,'' labeled his opponent's criticisms of corporate power and tax breaks for the wealthy a mean-spirited effort ''to wage class warfare to get ahead.''
 Of course, there are significant differences between the Whigs and today's conservatives. Governing in an age before giant private corporations, the Whigs saw federal spending on the nation's infrastructure as imperative to economic development. On this point, modern G.O.P. dogma departs from Whig principles -- a difference that has recently caused the Bush administration severe embarrassment.
 Conservative Populism: Modern conservatives present themselves as the party of the oppressed taxpayer and small businessman -- citizens Reagan lionized as ''hard-working Americans.'' Similarly, leading Whig operatives, like the New York wire-puller Thurlow Weed, refined a vocabulary and a public image befitting a party of the toiling American majority pitted against selfish politicians. 
 Whig rhetoric departed fundamentally from the aristocratic hauteur and gloominess that old-line conservatives inherited from the defunct Federalist Party. On the political stump, the example of the buckskinned Whig congressman and Tennessee rifleman Davy Crockett was widely imitated. Even classical-style orators like Webster learned to put aside their Cicero on the campaign trail, declare themselves rip-snorting Democrats -- and threaten to punch out anybody who said otherwise. The Whigs also invented new satirical characters who, in newspapers and onstage, ridiculed politicians who ''manage to git hold of the money of the people and keep turning it to their own account.'' While they cast themselves and their rich supporters as just plain folks, the Whigs portrayed the Democrats as smooth-handed, Champagne-drinking, out-of-touch professional politicians. The appeals helped the Whigs win the presidency in 1840 with their famous ''log cabin and hard cider'' campaign, presenting their well-born presidential candidate, William Henry Harrison, as a plebeian hero who lived in a humble abode and drank the common frontiersman's brew. 
 Today's Republicans have repeated the makeover. In the 1970's, the conservative movement's adoption of the sunny-tempered Hollywood cowboy Reagan as its leader in place of the dour, bespectacled Barry Goldwater was the great breakthrough of modern conservative populism. Thereafter, the transformation of the Massachusetts-born patrician George H.W. Bush into a lover of pork rinds and of his Andover-, Yale- and Harvard-educated son into a rugged Texas pioneer extended the conservative populist theme. The Democrats, meanwhile, remain trapped in the public's image of them as effete ''brie and Chablis'' liberals. 
 Moralism, Self-Reform and the Culture War: Today's Republican Party owes a great deal to its political alliance with resurgent conservative evangelical Christians, part of a wider conservative attack on liberals as the enemies of traditional morality. That attack reinforces the fundamental idea of the ''opportunity society'': personal failure stems not from economic and social inequalities but from the moral failings of thriftless, heedless, lawless, libertine and lazy individuals -- precisely the sorts of people (conservatives charge) liberals want to coddle with needless, destructive social spending. 
 The Whigs portrayed the Jacksonians in very similar terms. ''Wherever you find a bitter, blasphemous Atheist and an enemy of Marriage, Morality, and Social Order,'' The New-York Daily Tribune under Greeley charged, ''there you may be certain of one vote for [the Jacksonians].'' Upon enlisting in the Whig Party in 1835, Representative John Bell of Tennessee sounded like a forerunner of William Bennett, declaring that ''we have, in truth, in the last 8 or 10 years, been in a continual state of moral war.'' Jackson's successor as president, Martin Van Buren, a widower, came in for special abuse as a man of dubious morals, including fantastic Whig charges that he held secret orgies in the White House.
 The Whigs were drawn disproportionately from devotees of the enormous wave of evangelical revivalism known as the Second Great Awakening. Evangelicalism quickly led a minority of Northern Whigs into the crusade against slavery. But mainstream Whigs despised anti-slavery politics and were preoccupied by evangelically inspired efforts to enforce public morality with coercive temperance and Sunday blue-law campaigns. Democrats opposed these efforts, upholding the separation of church and state in order to prevent Congress, one Kentucky Jacksonian wrote, from becoming the ''proper tribunal to determine what are the laws of God.''
 Fate was unkind to the Whig Party. Its first president, Harrison, took sick on his frigid Inauguration Day in 1841, died one month later and was succeeded by a Virginia ex-Democrat, John Tyler, whom some in the party considered to be no Whig at all. The other Whig elected to the presidency, Zachary Taylor, a retired general, lasted only slightly longer than Harrison, felled by an attack of acute gastroenteritis in 1850 after just 16 months in the White House. In between the Tyler and Taylor presidencies, the acquisition of vast Western territories from the war against Mexico led to severe wrangling over the extension of slavery, which neither of the major parties could handle. The Democrats wound up losing their anti-slavery Northern partisans in the 1850's and became dominated by Southern slaveholders. The Whig Party collapsed completely: its anti-slavery wing joined with the Democratic bolters to form the Republican Party in 1854; its Southerners either enlisted in the pro-slavery Democratic fold or floundered in vain attempts to restore sectional comity. 
 The party's sorry demise helps explain why today's Republican conservatives who study history resist any comparison to the Whigs. If they look back before the McKinley era to the 1830's, as Karl Rove has done on occasion, they prefer to liken themselves to the Jacksonians, sticking up for ''the little guy'' against the federal government. But the Jacksonians, unlike conservatives then and now, also battled against the country's financial and mercantile elites and sought to reduce the power of what Jackson called ''associated wealth'' over the nation's economy and politics. Rove's argument distorts the nature of contemporary conservatism's political achievements.
 By lashing Whig principles to Southern states rights dogma, and updating them both, modern conservatives have created a new mutation far more tenacious than the old Whig Party. Invigorating the core Whig tenets about trickle-down opportunity, the Republicans have enriched a plutocracy of Americans unimaginable in the early 19th century and won their financial support as well as their political allegiance. By relying on the Southern version of evangelicalism, stressing personal holiness more than the do-good reformism of Northern evangelical Whigs and enlisting the Christian right in their culture war, they have built a larger and more loyal political base than the Whigs ever enjoyed.
 Of course, today's conservatives shouldn't be complacent about the future of their movement. Bad luck aside, sectional tensions between Northern anti-slavery Whigs and Southern Whig slaveholders finally proved the party's undoing. And even at their high tide, the Whigs had to paper over conflicts between the party's hard-drinking populists and its teetotaling moralists, its moss-backed bluenoses and its more flexible officeholders and party managers. Thurlow Weed's closest political friend, the New York Whig (and later Republican) William Henry Seward, despaired in the early 1840's that ''my principles are too liberal, too philanthropic, if it not be vain to say so, for my party.'' Modern conservatives cope with similar fault lines, including divisions between the old Confederate states and the old Union states, which have placed many ''moderate'' Northern Republicans like Lincoln Chaffee and Christine Todd Whitman at odds with the party's hard-line directorship. 
 And yet modern conservatism has outlived every expectation of its demise. Even today, unsettled by hurricanes, scandals and an increasingly unpopular war, the G.O.P. nonetheless stands for conservative principles and speaks a political language readily understood by voters. Those principles and that language are venerable and, as proclaimed by today's Republicans, more compelling than the confused and uncertain message coming from their opponents. As inadequate, or worse, as the G.O.P.'s privatizing policies may appear, the conservatives' often misunderstood connection to the American past may yet carry them successfully into the future.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Zachary Taylor, Whig Party candidate for president, portrayed as a Chinese juggler. (Photograph from ''The Juggler In Trouble'' (1848), From The John-Donkey/Picture History)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (94%); LIBERALISM (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HISTORY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RELIGION (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



340 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; The Basics; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Arguing Against That Deduction

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
Members of President Bush's Advisory Panel on Tax Reform suggested on Tuesday that the government could pay for the abolition of the alternative minimum tax by cutting one of the holiest of tax deductions: home mortgage interest. 
 The suggestion -- to cap deductions at $300,00 instead of $1 million -- seems like a political nonstarter. But many economists say it would be a good start, questioning how much the deductions have accomplished. 
 Homeowners receive a lot of subsidies. Low-income families can buy their first homes with low-interest loans. There are no taxes on the first $250,000 in capital gains ($500,000 for couples) when properties are sold after two years of residence. Points paid on mortgages are deductible. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two government-sponsored enterprises that buy bundles of mortgages from banks, help consumers win lower interest rates.
 These subsidies support the housing market. People are encouraged to buy a home -- or a bigger home -- rather than purchase other goods and services, invest their money in the markets or set up a business. 
 The mortgage interest deduction influences these choices for some people, but ''if your main goal is to help new homeowners, then you're not getting much bang for your buck,'' said Dwight M. Jaffee, a professor of banking, finance and real estate at the University of California, Berkeley. The subsidy goes only to people who take out mortgages, he explained. And the biggest subsidies go to the people who buy the biggest homes -- the ones who tend to have the least trouble buying a house in the first place.
 Not all economists are against the deduction. Its removal would have ''almost an unambiguous negative impact'' on the housing market and prices, said Douglas G. Duncan, chief economist of the Mortgage Bankers Association, an industry group that supports the deduction. Consumer dollars might flow into other areas of the economy, he said, but there was no way to know without seeing all the panel's proposals. Moreover, Mr. Duncan pointed out, the advisory panel was required to recognize ''the importance of homeownership.'' Removing the deduction, he said, ''does seem a little bit at odds with the president's statement.'' DANIEL ALTMAN

CORRECTION-DATE: October 23, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about a presidential panel's suggested changes to the income tax system referred imprecisely to a suggested cap on the home mortgage tax deduction. The panel suggested reducing the size of the mortgage for which interest could be deducted -- to $300,000 from $1 million. The figure would not apply to the deductible interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (79%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); TAX REFORM (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); FAMILY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); BRUCE DUNCAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



341 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: A Doctor Looks to 2006 With Health Care His Issue

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

DATELINE: LAKE SUCCESS 

 BODY:
THERE are still 13 months to go before the next gubernatorial election. Is it too soon to be talking about who could be lieutenant governor?
 With the Democratic nomination for governor in 2006 apparently all but sewn up by Eliot Spitzer, the state attorney general, at least four candidates are vying for the No.2 spot on his ticket. Two of them are prominent Long Islanders.
That a longtime state assemblyman from Great Neck, an aide to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton or an upstate town supervisor might harbor ambitions for statewide office may come as no great surprise. But a vascular surgeon from Lake Success? 
 Yet Dr. Jon Cohen, the chief medical officer of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, has come to be seen as one of the two front-runners in the race, if it can be called that so far in advance of the election. And he has done it, by his own admission, as a one-issue candidate: all health care, all the time.
 Dr. Cohen is crisscrossing the state to build support, as is his main rival so far, Leecia Eve, a Harvard-educated lawyer from Buffalo who led Senator Clinton's homeland security advisory team. They have each worked to cultivate party leaders and raise substantial campaign war chests, more than $500,000 for Dr. Cohen and $200,000 for Ms. Eve. 
 But given the history of embarrassingly public clashes between governors and their lieutenants -- George Pataki versus Betsy McCaughey Ross, Hugh Carey versus Mary Anne Krupsak, Mario Cuomo versus Alfred Del Bello -- it is widely expected that the Democratic Party will leave the final choice to Mr. Spitzer.
 ''There will be tremendous deference to his choice, should he decide to make one,'' said Bob Master, a political director at the Communication Workers of America and a co-chairman of the Working Families Party, which usually endorses Democratic candidates for state office. 
 Ryan Toohey, Mr. Spitzer's campaign manager, said Mr. Spitzer had talked with all four hopefuls who have emerged to date: Dr. Cohen, Ms. Eve, Assemblyman Thomas P. DiNapoli of Great Neck, and Joseph Ruggiero, the supervisor of the Town of Wappinger in Dutchess County. ''But only incidentally, not in their capacity as candidates,'' Mr. Toohey said. ''It's still early on, and a lot can happen, so we're not really going to comment on specifics right now.''
 Mr. DiNapoli would perhaps have the most at stake if nominated. Dr. Cohen could probably return to his current job if he loses the election, and Ms. Eve has already left Senator Clinton's office, but Mr. DiNapoli would have to relinquish his Assembly seat, committee chairmanships and nearly 20 years' seniority to run for lieutenant governor, raising the possibility of a permanently sidetracked political career if he loses.
 Mr. DiNapoli, who said he had raised $200,000 so far, sounded content to wait for a tap on the shoulder from Mr. Spitzer. The lieutenant governorship ''has no institutional power,'' he said in an interview, ''so whatever influence you'll have in state government will be derived from the strength of your relationship with the governor.''
 Little has been heard from Mr. Ruggiero, except that he, too, is leaving the choice to Mr. Spitzer. But Ms. Eve and Dr. Cohen are taking matters more into their own hands by publicly campaigning for the nomination.
 Ms. Eve, 41, the daughter of a former deputy speaker of the Assembly, stood on the steps of City Hall in Manhattan on Oct. 3, alongside Representative Charles B. Rangel, David Dinkins, the former mayor, and other prominent supporters. The widely publicized moment was meant to position her, a black woman from upstate, as a perfect counterbalance to Mr. Spitzer on the Democratic ticket.
 At that same moment, Dr. Cohen, 51, was in Buffalo, Ms. Eve's hometown, wrapping up a six-county tour by talking with union leaders who were forced to trade away some of their members' pay to maintain health care benefits. Dr. Cohen would not add much diversity to the ticket -- like Mr. Spitzer, he is a white Jewish man from downstate -- but he would come with experience of running a $3.5 billion enterprise, with 16 hospitals, 2 nursing centers and more than 35,000 employees.
 Though it was hardly a headline-grabber, Dr. Cohen's stop in Buffalo was something of a defining moment for him, too. Just as Ms. Eve was listing her priorities as education, job growth, health care and public safety, in that order, Dr. Cohen was hitting his single theme of health care reform again and again. 
 He contends that rising costs and eroding quality of care in the state's health care system are the most pressing problems confronting New Yorkers, and by extension, their next governor. And he wants to be the man the new governor turns to for a solution.
 ''The health care system is dysfunctional at every level,'' Dr. Cohen said. 
 He fires off statistics with machine-gun speed: three million Americans are uninsured, two million of them employed by small businesses that cannot afford to provide coverage; two-thirds of the nation's hospitals lost money last year; 900,000 prescriptions went unfilled in New York last year because patients could not afford the medication. 
 And don't get him started on the prognosis for Medicaid, the government-sponsored insurance program for the poor, whose rising costs are hobbling county budgets across the state. ''What's happening is, there's too little money left for roads, for senior citizen programs and for schools,'' he said.
 Dr. Cohen has not sought public office before, but he is no stranger to the policy debate. He was the senior health care adviser to H. Carl McCall's gubernatorial campaign in 2002, and he helped draft the health care portion of Senator John Kerry's presidential campaign platform. 
 His proposed solution is a plan for universal health-insurance coverage linked to economic development. His mantra is an echo of Senator Kerry's: ''Health care is a right, not a privilege.''
 Dr. Cohen says he favors setting up an insurance pool backed by state-approved private carriers that would spread the economic risks of health care coverage widely and make coverage affordable for small business. At the same time, he said, state-led investment in biotechnology and stem cell research, as California has done, would create jobs and help find cures for diseases that are now medically and fiscally devastating. 
 Covering people who are now uninsured would raise the quality of their care and relieve hospitals of the financial burden of providing it, which cost the North Shore-Long Island Jewish system, the largest hospital group on the Island, some $60 million last year, he said.
 But Mr. DiNapoli sees no precedent for a lieutenant governor becoming a policy maker, the role Dr. Cohen envisions. 
 ''Eliot Spitzer will look first for someone who will be loyal to him,'' Mr. DiNapoli said. The second priority, he added, should be broadening Mr. Spitzer's support beyond his base in the city, preferably with a running mate from the New York City suburbs. ''The swing vote is in Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester and Rockland,'' he said, ''and the resurgence of the Democratic Party in Nassau and Suffolk earns us a place at the table.''
 Peter Stamos, a former adviser to President Clinton and Senator Kerry, said Dr. Cohen's rivals underestimate him at their own risk. 
 Dr. Cohen played a vital role in the merger of North Shore University Hospital and Long Island Jewish Medical Center, two institutions that had been arch-competitors. ''He clearly has excellent business instincts, and an ability to garner support on both sides of the aisle,'' Mr. Stamos said. 
 Mr. McCall, the former state comptroller, said health care's moment as a unifying political issue in the state had arrived, a decade after its spectacular failure on the national level. 
 ''It's now the place where we spend more money in the budget than anything else,'' he said, ''and Medicaid expenditures are creating serious problems in every community in the state.'' Taking a jab at the administration of Governor Pataki, who says he won't run again next year, Mr. McCall said New York lacks any long-term plan to avert a crisis in health care costs.
 ''And I like the idea that someone understands that lieutenant governor could actually be a job,'' he said.
 Mr. Master of the Working Families Party called health care the top priority for labor unions in the election, and said he found Dr. Cohen's ideas fascinating and compelling.
 ''I'm told Verizon will shell out over $20,000 per employee for family health care by end of this year, and that just can't go on,'' he said. ''But no one has ever seen anything like this: a candidate willing to spend the next 13 months talking about the health care system being broken and what needs to be done.''
 Still, he wondered whether the issue was too complicated to resonate with voters now. ''The question is,'' he said, pausing, ''is it better to wait for the governor to address it in a serious way?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Jon Cohen believes that the lieutenant governor can make a difference. (Photo by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); LAWYERS (70%); FAMILY (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



342 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: For Two Democrats, Road Clears

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
THE announcement Tuesday that Attorney General Richard Blumenthal would not run for governor in 2006 was welcome news for the two Democrats who have already begun to seek that office. Dannel P. Malloy, the mayor of Stamford, and John DeStefano Jr., the mayor of New Haven, now have two major obstacles: the forces of history and the force of nature currently occupying the governor's seat.
 No mayor in the last 100 years has become governor straight from city hall without first moving on to another office, such as Congress. Howard Reiter, chairman of the Department of Political Science at the University of Connecticut, said mayors carry all the baggage of the state's cities, particularly poverty and racial tension. That distances them from the state's suburban and rural voters.
''The mayor is seen as someone living in an area with very different issues than most of the state is dealing with,'' he said. 
 Meanwhile, Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican, has enjoyed the kind of approval ratings that politicians dream about -- hovering around 80 percent for most of the past year. On Thursday, she filed paperwork to seek her party's nomination, creating a candidate committee that allows her to begin raising money for her election campaign.
 That said, the two Democrats already have a head start in fund-raising over any other candidate, whether Republican or Democrat, and have begun to gain name recognition beyond their cities. On the issues facing the state, they sound similar. Both said job growth was the most important issue, both want to reform the property tax system, and both said Mrs. Rell's $1.3 billion transportation initiative wasn't nearly enough to solve traffic gridlock and mass transit problems.
 Mr. DeStefano likes to tout his working-class roots as a prime reason he would be suited for the governorship. His father was a police officer in New Haven and his mother was a beautician. After graduating from a Catholic high school, Mr. DeStefano went to the University of Connecticut, where he met his wife, Kathy, and eventually earned a master's degree in public administration.
 ''I come from the same kind of family that is typical of Connecticut,'' he said in an interview on Wednesday. ''I understand what it means to get a home equity loan to pay for my kids' tuition.''
 After holding various jobs in City Hall, Mr. DeStefano ran for mayor and lost in 1989. Four years later, he won. He has run New Haven since 1994, a period in which the city has had a large drop in crime, an extensive school construction program, and gradual improvements in student performance. 
 Douglas Rae, a political science professor at Yale University's School of Management, said that when Mr. DeStefano began his first term, he had a chip on his shoulder and couldn't deal with strong people on his staff. He has since relaxed and become nimble at negotiating with powerful institutions, like Yale, which has contributed increasingly to New Haven's tax base despite its tax-exempt status, Mr. Rae said. 
 Mr. DeStefano relishes complicated policy debates. When he talks about cities, he can hardly contain himself, but his concepts can sometimes be difficult to grasp. His sensibility is obviously urban; but if former Gov. John G. Rowland was a Waterbury street-fighter, Mr. DeStefano is more of a professor, the kind who doesn't give out easy A's.
 ''The art of politics and leadership is seeing these issues in their complexity,'' he said.
 Crime has dropped about 50 percent in New Haven since he was elected, Mr. DeStefano said. He gives some of the credit to federal officials who broke up the drug gangs, but also credits the city's community policing initiatives.
 Schools, too, have improved. On the outside, the improvement is obvious. The state has helped funnel more than $1 billion into school construction in New Haven and about 1,700 students from outside the city have chosen to go to school there, Mr. DeStefano said. With some notable exceptions, however, classroom performance continues to lag well behind the rest of the state.
 Mr. DeStefano's record on the economy has been somewhat mixed. Downtown New Haven has experienced a boom as residential developers and restaurants have moved in, and the city has attracted some biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. But the unemployment rate has risen over the past decade, and the number of jobs has dropped. In 1995, the average unemployment rate in the city was 6.4 percent. Last year, unemployment was up to 7 percent. 
 Mr. DeStefano blames the unemployment numbers on the state, saying that job growth depends on a strong statewide program. 
 Mr. DeStefano's campaign, which has a young and energetic staff run by 23-year-old Shonu Gandhi, leads the fund-raising race, with $2.6 million, as of Tuesday filings. Local newspapers have also pointed out that Mr. DeStefano had taken money from companies and people who do business with the city, particularly on the school construction campaign. He said he has pushed for stronger campaign finance laws, but until they are changed for everyone, he will continue to accept the donations. Mayor Malloy's campaign has also taken money from companies that do business with his city, although he said he would give the money back if the state passes a law creating public financing of campaigns in the next year. 
 Mr. Malloy has received $1.6 million in contributions, and he expected that more wallets will open now after Mr. Blumenthal's announcement. The mayor said support has increasingly come from outside his region. Almost half of his contributors in the last quarter were from outside Fairfield County, according to his campaign office.
 Mr. Malloy, one of eight children, grew up in Stamford, where his father owned an insurance brokerage and his politically active mother organized nurses into a union. 
 In high school, he had already distinguished himself, said Ellen Camhi, the chairwoman of Stamford's Democratic Party. Ms. Camhi met Mr. Malloy when she was on the Board of Education and he was a student liaison to the board. She remembers a speech he made to a room full of adults and policymakers supporting a school lunch program that would allow poor students to get free lunches.
 ''He gave such an incredible speech, a moving speech, it just showed who he is from the start,'' she said. ''I looked at him and said, 'I hope after college you come back to Stamford and run for something.'''
 After graduating from Boston College Law School, Mr. Malloy became a prosecutor with the district attorney's office in Brooklyn. He won 22 out of 23 felony cases there, including four homicide cases, he said. That experience separates him from the other candidates, he said.
 ''I'm the only candidate who has had a law enforcement job,'' Mr. Malloy said in an interview on Wednesday.
 He was first elected mayor in 1995 and has overseen a 63 percent decrease in crime, making Stamford one of the 10 safest cities in the country in each of the past three years, he said.
 Mr. Malloy has sometimes fought with unions. The United Automobile Workers, which represents city workers, has clashed with Mr. Malloy over contracts and benefits over the last few years, even picketing his house over a dispute. Phil Wheeler, a regional U.A.W. official, said Mr. Malloy had been ''terrible'' to work with.
 Chris Cooney, Mr. Malloy's campaign manager, said Mr. Malloy has made numerous ''difficult and challenging decisions'' as mayor, but has formed strong ties with numerous unions.
 Until recently, Mr. DeStefano has also clashed with unions, although he has already received some union endorsements for governor.
 Mr. Malloy has focused heavily on early childhood education, initiating a program that ensures that every 4-year-old in the city has access to nursery school, even if their parents can't pay. Mr. Malloy said he planned to start a similar plan statewide if he becomes governor.
 Mr. Malloy has had some success at improving Stamford's economy and recently announced a plan to bring the Royal Bank of Scotland, one of the largest banks in the world, to the city. Unemployment has dropped from 4.7 percent to 4.1 percent under his leadership and more than 3,000 jobs have been created in the city, according to statistics from the State Department of Labor.
 The Malloy campaign has already survived one major test. A cloud hung over the mayor for months as state investigators looked into his public and private life, probing campaign contributions and improvements made to his house by contractors who had done business with the city. In May, Mr. Malloy was cleared of wrongdoing by Christopher Morano, the chief state's attorney. During the investigation Mr. Malloy stopped holding fund-raisers and lost his initial lead in campaign money to Mr. DeStefano.
 The next big test, however, will be convincing voters that he can govern beyond Stamford. A consultant to his campaign, longtime Democratic operative Roy Occhiogrosso, is already beating that drum.
 ''Being the mayor of a large city is like being the governor of a small state,'' Mr. Occhiogrosso said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); CITIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TUITION FEES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); CRIME RATES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (70%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (63%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (63%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (61%); VOTERS & VOTING (54%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (50%) Elections; Governors (US)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (90%); M JODI RELL (79%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (73%) Dannel P (Mayor) Malloy; John Jr (Mayor) Destefano; M Jodi (Gov) Rell; Avi Salzman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



343 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; INSIDE THE NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2489 words

HEADLINE: The Mortgage Maker Vs. The World

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

DATELINE: SIMI VALLEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
A touch of resentment -- based on income, education, social class -- motivates countless ambitious people, though few will admit to it once they become successful.
 An exception is Angelo R. Mozilo, a founder and chief executive of the Countrywide Financial Corporation, a company that has soared from obscurity to become the nation's No.1 mortgage lender -- and, in the process, produced a personal fortune for Mr. Mozilo of about half a billion dollars. This year alone, his compensation is expected to reach $100 million.
Modest origins -- a butcher's son from the Bronx who worked his way through Fordham University -- drove Mr. Mozilo to push Countrywide past the mortgage businesses of far larger companies, including Citigroup, Wells Fargo and Washington Mutual. He readily admits to having a chip on his shoulder, a source of motivation that he has studied, channeled and sought in others, building a company that, too, is an overachiever. 
 The chip also contributes to Mr. Mozilo's feeling that he is entitled to his hefty pay package.
 ''Nobody called me when I was making nothing for years and years and said, 'Can I help?''' Mr. Mozilo said in an interview at a Countrywide loan processing campus that sprawls over a hillside in this Los Angeles exurb, across the road from a garbage dump. His pay, he added, ''is based on my performance.''
 That performance has been impressive, particularly during the recent housing boom. Countrywide's loan volume quintupled over the last five years, and its profit grew even faster, to $2.2 billion last year. But the history of the mortgage industry is full of nasty surprises that sank or slowed once-strong companies -- interest rate swings and frenetic refinancing make the business volatile and risky. That weighs on Countrywide's stock, which trades at a discount to other financial firms.
 On the topic of being underappreciated, Mr. Mozilo doesn't require much encouragement. ''I run into these guys on Wall Street all the time who think they're something special because they went to Ivy League schools,'' he said. For companies like his, ''We're always underestimated. And we still are. I am. I must say, it bothered me when I was younger -- their snobbery and their looking down on us.''
 A lithe, little guy with a jutting jaw, Mr. Mozilo looks like he has faced off against his share of bullies. Today, he dresses elaborately, as if to remind them of who came out on top. A perfectly folded hankie peeks out from the breast pocket of his blue suit; underneath is a crisp banker's shirt in blue with a white collar, and weighty cufflinks with the Countrywide logo. All is set off against a deep tan.
 In an interview, he didn't wait for a question, sallying forth on his own. ''Who I am: I was a messenger boy for a mortgage company in Manhattan,'' he began. ''I was a 14-year-old boy. The people in this company know I did what they're doing. Getting kicked out of real estate offices -- the 40th mortgage guy to walk through the door -- that's the business. It has been a source of strength to me as a leader. Fifty-two years I've been doing this.''
 Mr. Mozilo is 66 and expects to retire at 68. He has recruited others with chips on their own shoulders to carry on at Countrywide after he leaves, and has set them loose on the staid banking industry with something to prove. His top two lieutenants graduated from California State University, Northridge, a decidedly un-Ivy League institution not far from here. Another comes from California State University, Long Beach. All told, the company now employs more than 50,000 people.
 In truth, of course, graduates of less-than-elite colleges are well represented at many large financial institutions. At Wells Fargo, the big San Francisco-based bank, for instance, Richard M. Kovacevich, chief executive and a Stanford man, in August named as his No.2 and apparent successor John G. Stumpf, who has an accounting degree from St. Cloud State University in Minnesota.
 What sets Countrywide apart is the us-versus-them feeling that Mr. Mozilo draws from his life story and his ability to tap into the same feelings in others. Indeed, many of his employees are drawn to what he sells as a free-wheeling meritocracy, and they bring the chips on their shoulders with them.
 ''I did,'' said Brian Hale, who left Wells Fargo four years ago. A Countrywide managing director in charge of retail loan production, he is a graduate of the State University of New York at Plattsburgh. ''In many organizations I compete with, that would disqualify me for the job I have at Countrywide,'' Mr. Hale said of his schooling. True or not, it motivates him.
 ''The key people I depend upon -- that chip is so ingrained,'' Mr. Mozilo said. ''They're sort of my apostles in that regard.''
 The success of Countrywide might cause most executives to let up a bit. The stock has been among the best performers over the last 20 years. Profits exceed $2 billion a year. And, pulling further away from competitors, Countrywide expects to originate between $390 billion and $480 billion in mortgages this year, 14 to 15 percent of the nation's total. Its costs are among the lowest in the industry.
 Countrywide lends directly to consumers and also buys loans from other lenders and from loan brokers. It packages most of the loans up and resells them at a profit.
 Because it is primarily a mortgage lender, however, Countrywide's profits and stock price are vulnerable to interest rate swings, and thus its shares trade for about nine times its per-share earnings, a relatively low multiple. Its nearest competitor in the mortgage business, Wells Fargo, is a diversified bank that is less vulnerable to shifting rates. Its stock trades at about 14 times its earnings.
 Mr. Mozilo bought a bank in 1991 -- its assets doubled over the last year, to $91 billion -- and Countrywide is hanging onto more mortgages, producing a stream of income to smooth the ups and downs of the refinancing market ''so we can get a better multiple for the shareholders,'' Mr. Mozilo said. ''Will we? I don't know. To this day, we are perceived as a proxy on interest rates.''
 While he is sanguine about the stock price, Mr. Mozilo remains volatile about so much else. Particularly irksome are calls by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, to shrink Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the quasi-government institutions that buy huge numbers of mortgages from financial institutions, notably from Countrywide. 
 ''Fannie and Freddie are a threat to his banks,'' Mr. Mozilo said of Mr. Greenspan, whose agency regulates big bank holding companies. By buying his mortgages and thus freeing up his capital to solicit even more business, Fannie and Freddie are a big reason Mr. Mozilo has driven Countrywide past the Citigroups and the Wells Fargos to the top of the mortgage heap. ''If it wasn't for them,'' he said of Fannie and Freddie, ''Wells knows they'd have us.''
 He can also be irked by his employees. Walking through a hallway past a worker who is away from his desk and talking on a cellphone, Mr. Mozilo said, ''I hate that.'' The hallways are remarkably empty; workers are in their cubicles, which all have low partitions, so employees can be easily seen. Mr. Mozilo pays less attention to the cubicles' square footage. ''Whether it's smaller or larger, they adapt, like fish to a fish tank,'' Mr. Mozilo said.
 As Anne McCallion, the director of finance, observed, ''Countrywide is not a paternalistic organization.'' Indeed, the company agreed to pay $30 million to settle a lawsuit filed on behalf of employees who say they weren't compensated for overtime.
 The suit and other labor issues are one reason the company now prefers to add workers in Texas and other states with labor laws that are friendlier to employers. Standing beside Mr. Mozilo, Steve Bailey, the chief of loan administration, noted that Countrywide has 17,000 workers in California. ''We should be out of California,'' he said.
 Mr. Mozilo and a partner founded Countrywide in 1969, intent on building the first national mortgage company. After a $3 million stock offering failed, they raised $450,000. By 1983, with more of a track record, they raised $11 million by selling stock, but the deal limited Mr. Mozilo to only small raises to his salary, which was $345,000. The butcher's son had grown accustomed to a good living. ''I had five kids,'' he said. ''It was really hard.''
 As the 1980's wore on, the savings and loan crisis cleared away many of Countrywide's bigger rivals. And the rise of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac allowed Countrywide and others to grow rapidly by selling their loans at a profit and recycling the capital into making new loans. In the refinancing boom of 1993, ''we really came into our own,'' Mr. Mozilo said.
 When boom turned to bust, Countrywide and others laid off workers. And with the likes of Wells Fargo, Citigroup, General Motors Acceptance and other larger companies piling into the national mortgage market, Countrywide briefly considered a takeover offer from Lloyd's Bank about five years ago. But the buyer backed away, Mr. Mozilo said, punctuating the story with, ''Thank God.''
 Around that time, Countrywide invited Eric G. Flamholtz, a consultant and a management professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, to address a strategic planning retreat. When we met, Mr. Flamholtz said, Mr. Mozilo ''gave me a limp handshake.'' But ''when he heard I was from Brooklyn, he perked up.''
 The professor had a wacky notion that the mortgage market, where no lender had more than a 5 percent share, would inevitably and rapidly consolidate, leaving as few as three big players, one of them clearly dominant. He also said pricing wouldn't dictate the winner. ''You win with infrastructure,'' he said. 
 THE prospect of a chance to dominate competitors seemed to reinvigorate Mr. Mozilo. Countrywide invested heavily in technology to lower its costs and quicken its service, then went on to announce a goal to capture 30 percent of the mortgage market. It accelerated the building of a network of 795 local offices to cater to real estate agents and home builders, who refer home buyers to mortgage companies. That network distinguishes Countrywide from competitors that rely more on phone banks. Can Countrywide respond more quickly to homebuilders and homebuyers trying to seal deals? ''Even if I can't,'' said Mr. Hale, who runs retail loan production, ''the perception of the Realtor and builder is I can.''
 The timing was great. Low interest rates led to a huge refinancing boom, which peaked in 2003. Soaring home prices also led consumers to stray in huge numbers from 30-year fixed-rate mortgages to adjustable-rate loans, interest-only loans and, more recently, ''pay-option'' loans that allow payments for a period of time that don't even cover the owed interest, resulting in a rising loan balance, or negative amortization. These mortgages tend to be more profitable than old-style loans. Nonprime loans, those made to less-creditworthy borrowers, brought it nearly four times as big a gross profit -- 3.64 percent of the loan amount compared with 0.93 percent for prime mortgages -- last year.
 But as profits climbed, so did the complexity, and potentially the risk, of Countrywide's operation. Adjustable-rate loans accounted for 51 percent of Countrywide's mortgages last year, up from 14 percent in 2002. In this year's second quarter, pay-option loans, the ones that allow negative amortization, were 21 percent of Countrywide's total, versus just 3 percent a year earlier. 
 That volume of such loans has never been tested in a sharply rising interest-rate environment, a situation feared by some though not yet on the horizon. While Countrywide sells most of its loans, passing the credit risk to others, it had $15 billion worth of pay-option adjustable rate mortgages on its own books at the end of June, and almost one in five of them had experienced negative amortization. If delinquencies on those loans or others rise, Countrywide's ability to sell loans in the future could be damaged. For this reason, Wells Fargo has so far shied away from pay-option mortgages.
 Others aren't as reluctant as Wells Fargo, and fierce competition -- industry overcapacity, really -- has this year squeezed profit margins sharply. In the second quarter, Countrywide's gross profit on loans sold plunged to 1.02 percent of the loan amount from 1.64 percent in the first quarter. In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing for the quarter, the company said, ''We believe that industry consolidation should lessen irrational pricing.''
 But is pricing irrational, or is it merely now the norm in a highly efficient industry, one that Countrywide helped develop and one that delivers an abundance of capital to consumers who shop ever more wisely for the best deal? Asked if the thinning of margins will stop, Mr. Mozilo said, ''It's going to ease for the balance of the year.'' But over the long term, ''I don't think so,'' he added.
 Countrywide, like other big financial companies, is diversifying, selling insurance and home equity loans, all in an effort to keep growing and boost profits.
 MR. MOZILO, after pocketing about $70 million last year from salary, bonus and gains on exercising stock options, will probably hit $100 million in pay for 2005. He has already exercised more than three million options, selling the shares, this year. His cash bonus, $17.3 million last year, was the biggest among chief executives of all companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to Paul Hodgson of the Corporate Library, a corporate governance organization.
 With huge slugs of options in recent years, and Countrywide's surging stock price ''over the last three years, he has had a $500 million jump in worth,'' said Brian Foley, an independent compensation consultant in White Plains. With shareholders benefiting so, ''you've got to give him his due,'' Mr. Foley said, but added, ''When is enough enough?''
 Countrywide's lead director and chairman of the board's compensation committee, Michael E. Dougherty, chairman of Dougherty Financial Group, a Minneapolis investment company, said of Mr. Mozilo: ''He deserves every penny. He has a passion that only a founder has. I get e-mails time-dated from him at 2 a.m.''
 That's high praise, but Mr. Mozilo is resigned to being underappreciated. When he meets a stranger on the golf course he no longer calls himself a mortgage guy. ''Now I say I run a financial services business,'' he said. ''I don't know why. It makes me feel better. I guess status.'' 
 Before, he added, when he said he was in the mortgage business, ''because of the way I look they say, 'Second mortgages? Sub-prime?'''

Articles in this series will periodically profile business people who have grown wealthy from the real estate boom. Previous articles are online at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Charlie Powell)Chart: ''An Incredible Five Years''The real estate boom and the success of Countrywide Financial allowed Angelo R. Mozillo, its co-founder and chief executive, to earn more than $60 million through stock options and bonuses in 2004.Graph tracks Countrywide Financial stock price since 2000.Graphs tracks Countrywide loan volume and Net income since 2000.Graph tracks Angelo R. Mozilo compensation (broken into the following categories) from 2000-2004:BONUS (AND OTHER)BASE SALARYGAINS EXERCISING STOCK OPTIONSNote: Data are for fiscal years, which changed in 2001 (data for that year is only for 10 months.)(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 company reports)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); HOUSING MARKET (64%); EXECUTIVES (57%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%)

PERSON: ANGELO R MOZILO (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



344 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1913 words

HEADLINE: Picking Up the Pieces

BYLINE: By ANTHONY GOTTLIEB. 
Anthony Gottlieb, the author of ''The Dream of Reason: A History of Philosophy From the Greeks to the Renaissance,'' is the executive editor of The Economist.

 BODY:
POSTWAR
 A History of Europe Since 1945.
 By Tony Judt.
 Illustrated. 878 pp. The Penguin Press. $39.95.
AN old Soviet-era joke, retold by Tony Judt on the next-to-last page of his enormous book ''Postwar,'' is about a phone-in on ''Armenian Radio.'' Is it possible, an eager caller asks, to foretell the future? ''Yes,'' comes the weary answer. ''No problem. We know exactly what the future will be. Our problem is with the past: that keeps changing.'' 
 Sometimes it's hard to believe that just 20 years ago the eastern half of Europe was in the grip of governments so hopelessly incapable of dealing with the present, let alone providing for the future, that only the continual erasure of history could provide them with a semblance of success. With a stroke of the censor's pen, yesterday's disasters never happened.
 But there is also another, more benign way to rewrite history: using hindsight to reveal the past in the light of what it unexpectedly led to. In the darkness of the late 1940's, Europe seemed a shattered continent that was unlikely ever to emerge from the shadow of the giant across the Atlantic. Worse, in the coldest of cold-war years, Europe appeared destined to be no more than a buffer between Washington and Moscow -- either an incandescent graveyard or, if it was lucky, merely a no man's land. How things have changed. 
 The prospect of total war in the West has now receded so far that the darkest visions anyone can plausibly come up with are sporadic bombings by religious youths who think they are refighting the medieval crusades, and modest rises in global average temperatures in the distant future. Compared with the cold war's threat of ''mutually assured destruction,'' this is pretty much scraping the bottom of the barrel as far as apocalyptic visions go. (Even those who fear that terrorists will succeed in using a nuclear bomb must concede that the probability of Armageddon has significantly receded since the cold war.) And Europe is not only at peace; it is thriving. The fast-expanding European Union now binds together some 450 million people who make up the world's largest internal single market. Judt, a prolific British historian who has been teaching at New York University for almost two decades, suggests that ''the 21st century might yet belong to Europe.'' There are some problems with this idea -- more about that later -- but it is in one sense by no means beyond the realm of possibility. As he notes, few could have said such a thing 60 years ago. One of the pleasures of this rich and immensely detailed book is its portrayal of Europe's recovery from the devastation of 1945 as an organic regrowth. What seemed back then to be the twitching limbs of the dying was in fact the stirring of new life.
 As Judt movingly draws it, the picture of Europe at the end of World War II is pitiful almost beyond bearing. Some 36.5 million Europeans are reckoned to have died between 1939 and 1945 because of the war. Tens of millions more were uprooted by Hitler and Stalin. In the immediate aftermath of Germany's defeat, the continent was scarred with violent retribution, purges and outbreaks of what in some places -- like Greece and Yugoslavia -- amounted to civil war. As Judt notes, the war in Europe did not really end in 1945 at all. Neither did the persecution of Jews end with the closing of the death camps: well over a thousand Jews were killed in Polish pogroms after the liberation of Poland. 
 Continuing anti-Semitism in Europe, and the fact that Germany was not always the source of it, is a topic to which the author returns often. While Germany quite rightly bore the brunt of the blame for Europe's tragedy, other villains slipped away unnoticed. It was Austria, after all, that gave the world ''Waldheimer's disease'' -- the inability to remember what you did during the war, named for Kurt Waldheim, a secretary general of the United Nations who became Austria's president in 1986. In a country of under seven million inhabitants, there were still more than 500,000 registered Nazis in Austria at the end of the war. Austrians were greatly overrepresented in the SS and among concentration-camp staff. Tellingly, over 38 percent of the members of the Vienna Philharmonic orchestra were Nazis, compared with just 7 percent of the Berlin Philharmonic. And in an epilogue on modern European memory, Judt reminds us that the sickness that fueled Auschwitz is not fully cured. In 2000, criticizing a study of a wartime massacre of Jews by their Polish neighbors, Lech Walesa, the hero of Poland's anti-Communist uprising and a winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, dismissed the study's author as ''a Jew who tries to make money.'' 
 One of the starkest indications of the ''Himalayan'' task facing Europeans in 1945 was the destruction of the housing stock. Germany had lost 40 percent of its homes, Britain 30 percent and France 20. (In Warsaw 90 percent of homes were gone). Under the circumstances, the pace of rebuilding was remarkable, especially in Germany itself. On the day Hitler died, just 10 percent of Germany's railways were functioning; a year later, over 90 percent were up and running. But Europe was starving, and by the start of 1947, every country except Sweden and Switzerland was short of food. 
 The key problems with Europe's economies were the temporary disappearance of Germany as a market for a large part of the rest of the continent's goods, and the lack of hard currency with which to buy food, other materials and goods from America and elsewhere. Britain and France were running out of cash to pay for their imports from the United States, and some other countries did not really have tradable currencies at all. Hungary's inflation, to pick the worst example, was obscene. When its pengo was replaced by the forint in August 1946, the value of all its bank notes in circulation was equivalent to a thousandth of an American cent.
 BY the time George Marshall, the American secretary of state, announced his master rescue plan for Europe in the summer of 1947, the United States had already spent billions of dollars in loans and grants to Europe. But it had not been enough to establish a stable European market for American goods, or to prevent much of the continent from collapsing into -- or so it was feared -- Communism, fascism, anarchy, starvation or all four. Earlier aid had been emergency disaster relief, directed at plugging holes, not at long-term reconstruction. The Marshall Plan was different, and by the time it came to an end in 1952, the United States had disbursed in foreign aid more than all previous American administrations put together. As an equivalent share of America's gross domestic product today, the Marshall Plan would cost around $200 billion. Britain and France got the largest amounts in absolute terms, though the relative impact on smaller countries, including Italy, was greater.
 Britain's foreign minister at the time, Ernest Bevin, rightly called Marshall's announcement of the plan ''one of the greatest speeches in world history.'' But the French, it seems, never quite got it. According to polls in 1950, only one French adult in three admitted to having heard of the plan, and almost two-thirds of those who had said it was bad for their country. Judt argues that the most significant overall effects of America's torrent of money were psychological: the plan helped Europeans to feel better about themselves, and ''it made coordinated economic policy making seem normal rather than unusual.''
 Barely a decade after the end of the war, the engines of Europe's growth were turning as never before. The big Western European countries found themselves in an age of unparalleled affluence and started to mimic American patterns of consumption. Such dramatic change was bound to leave some Europeans in a state of bemused confusion. In 1956, the dyspeptic Jimmy Porter, a character in John Osborne's ''Look Back in Anger,'' sourly noted that ''it's pretty dreary living in the American age -- unless of course you're American.''
 A half-century later, Europeans no longer feel that they are living in an American age, and they -- and many Americans -- are realizing that life may not always be so wonderful even if you are American. Europe now has its own at least superficially attractive social and economic model. Many European countries equal or outperform America in terms of output per hour worked. Europeans tend to have free or cheap medical care, much more generous welfare systems, longer holidays and longer lives. This is a large part of what Judt has in mind when he provocatively argues that it is Europe that now has ''a serviceable model to propose for universal emulation.''
 As he knows, though, there are serious problems looming for Europe. Its aging population is straining its welfare systems, which in some cases are suicidally overgenerous. A far higher proportion of Europeans of working age are economically inactive -- maybe 40 percent, compared with 29 percent in America, according to one study. And Europeans are not having nearly enough babies. By 2050, it is forecast that almost a third of the European Union's population will be 65 or older. America's indigenous population is reproducing too slowly as well, but the United States has what the European Union desperately needs more of: a continuing influx of young and fecund immigrants. 
 Europeans have probably exaggerated the role of their own political arrangements in keeping the peace on the Continent since 1945. Preventing a recurrence of Western Europe's crippling wars, primarily by reconciling France and Germany, was one of the most powerful motives of the first architects of the European Union and its predecessor bodies. But Western Europe was united too by the menace of its common enemy behind the Iron Curtain. And it was America's troops and the threat of its nuclear weapons that helped to keep the overwhelmingly bigger conventional forces of the Warsaw Pact countries at bay, until the Soviet empire's long-suffering subjects realized they had nothing to lose but their chains, and Communism safely and spectacularly self-destructed in 1988-89. It was not America, though, that killed Communism. Judt's detailed, country-by-country account of its suicide is one of the best things in the book.
 A rguably, the finest political achievement of the European Union came afterward, is continuing and lies ahead. The alliance's former game plan of ever-deepening political union among member states probably lies in ruins, now that France and the Netherlands resoundingly rejected its proposed constitution this summer. But the European Union's expansion continues apace, drawing more and more countries -- another 10 joined last year, mainly from the former Soviet bloc -- into a looser form of union. This fosters and cements the spread of liberal democracy by offering membership in exchange for reforms. 
 Turkey is the most recent and potentially most important example. Accepted as a candidate for membership in 1999, it has already increased civilian control over its army, liberalized its justice system and abolished the death penalty, all in the hope of being admitted to the club. The effects of Turkey's possible accession are incalculable and tantalizing to contemplate. If it is allowed in, and present population trends hold their course, then in a few decades the most populous country in the European Union will be Islamic.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Wostok Press/from ''Postwar''
 John R. Rifkin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); HISTORY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); BOMBINGS (70%); ARMS RACE (70%); TERRORISM (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) 

PERSON: Anthony Gottlieb; Tony Judt

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



345 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Pluck Be a Lady

BYLINE: By LOUISE JARVIS FLYNN. 
Louise Jarvis Flynn has written about adventure and sports for Women's Sports & Fitness and other magazines.

 BODY:
ADVENTURE DIVAS
 Searching the Globe for a New Kind of Heroine.
 By Holly Morris.
 Illustrated. 283 pp. Villard Books. $23.95.
In her travelogue-cum-quest-memoir, ''Adventure Divas,'' Holly Morris turns her Gen X restlessness into a personal mission. ''Your generation was promised a decent husband and maybe a job on the side, '' Morris tells her mother. ''Mine was promised jet packs.'' 
 Propelled by sporty wanderlust and the soul-crushing routine of a ''pod'' job in publishing, Morris chucked the desk life and staked her career and savings (along with her mother's time and money) on a multimedia pipe dream called Adventure Divas. Mother and daughter planned to seek out intrepid and inspiring women from other cultures -- a folk singer in Tehran, a poet in Cuba, for example -- film their stories, sell the series to a television network and market the whole thing on the Web. Defying the odds, the show ended up on PBS. Morris's account of the experience is a delightful triangulation of adventure travel, telecommuting and self-reinvention that proves it does not, in fact, take a rocket scientist to achieve personal flight.
 From the get-go Morris had two big obstacles: She had never worked in television (she doesn't even own a set), and she needed lots of cash (decent production isn't cheap). Jeannie, her warm and spirited Everymother and a former newscaster, donated $10,000 and her expertise to the project, while Morris found her own solutions by freelancing as ''talent'' for a British company that makes adventure travel documentaries. Her work took her to remote locales with abrasive members of the crew. She became tangled in the learning curve of a new job and endured all kinds of physical hardships -- vicious ''Delhi belly,'' a hotel fire that destroyed most of her belongings. Meanwhile, she passed the hat for Adventure Divas Inc. and e-mailed mom. 
 All this could make for a scattered story line, but Morris, formerly the editorial director of Seal Press, a feminist publishing house in Seattle, cleverly layers her assorted personas and plots. Chapters alternate between her paid television work -- she's sent to the Malaysian jungle, the Swiss Alps and the Sahara -- and her adventure-diva interview trips to Cuba, India, New Zealand and Iran. Morris's self-deprecating wit, sense of pacing and brainy insights into the nature of fear and self-reliance hold the book together. 
 Most of the time the personal, political and professional complement one another nicely, though occasionally Morris overworks her obsession with ''interesting women doing unlikely things in variously oppressive societies,'' and the writing struggles under the weight of its ideological mission. A slog through feminist economics and earnest ruminations on multiculturalism come to mind. There is also one inconsistency that even Morris acknowledges: her plan is to ''seek out 'unsung' folks whose work is driven by personal passion, not 'achievement' status.'' Yet it's hard to see how New Zealand's prime minister, the top female cop in Delhi or a Maori ''pop music icon'' reached career stardom without a hearty pursuit of achievement and an appreciation of status. Frankly, all would probably wonder, what's wrong with a little naked ambition anyway?
 When Morris becomes her own subject the result is always vibrant honesty. ''I have to lay my hands all over something to understand it; burn myself to know it's hot,'' she writes. ''Being in motion, not knowing what's going to happen next, not only suits me, but has become an unlikely vehicle for faith.''
 And she can be hilarious. In Borneo, at a tribal longhouse decorated with shrunken human heads, she slips off to the primitive powder room to apply ''Bobbi Brown's Brillant a Levres Raspberry Shimmer #8 lipstick'' as per her producer's request. She drops her pocket mirror down the squatter toilet hole. Unflappable, she digs in and retrieves the emblem of the beauty myth, knowing full well that the sewer is the very place many Second Wavers would argue it belongs. Morris is a feminist and a realist. Later that same trip, she's lost in the jungle after being separated from the tribesmen who have taken her to hunt wild boar. Oozing from leech bites and contemplating her fate, she realizes she has her period -- and then stares down a five-foot-long snake.
 Obviously, Morris is not afraid to show her everyday self on the page, which is invigorating in a genre that too often has only two speeds: turbo self-aggrandizement and ambling naturalist introspection. The female perspective is also refreshing: how many men could survive not one but two international waxing appointments -- Brazilian and Persian? Certainly not Morris's petulant male companions on the Matterhorn. Throughout the climb they grouse about her as though she were a pal's girlfriend they had to endure for fraternal harmony. Shrugging off their hang-ups, she writes, ''Boys can be so catty.''
 But for all her athletic prowess and pluck, Morris can be as neurotic as the rest of us. The conflict between her inner fears and outer confidence is instantly recognizable to any woman with a good-girl complex. But her solution is cheaper and quicker than a shrink: when she takes on more than she can handle, she retreats mentally to her ''secret happy place . . . under a piece of heavy oak furniture where I mouth to myself, 'You're all alone in this world and the sooner you realize it the better.' ''
 Apparently, this works. Even on her most outlandish adventure -- a caravan through the central Sahara with Tuareg nomads -- she manages to beat back self-doubt. After a week of trudging through the blistering void, navigating by the stars at night and during the day by the angle of the shadows cast by the camels' ears, she arrives at an oasis town. There, a group of veiled men with swords are about to begin a camel race. The reasons for not joining the race are, well, every one you can think of, but Morris gives in to the one reason to do it: ''I want to win.'' When she finishes -- dusting one of the men, by the way -- she is spontaneously engulfed by a crowd of ululating women. She is the first woman ever to have entered the race; an adventure diva is born.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Steve Marts)Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Abbrederis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); TELECOMMUTING (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); GENERATION X (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (72%); NETWORK TELEVISION (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%); MOUNTAINS (50%) 

PERSON: Louise Jarvis Flynn; Holly Morris

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (70%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (56%); DELHI, INDIA (52%) WASHINGTON, USA (70%); ALPS (51%) CUBA (90%); NEW ZEALAND (75%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (71%); UNITED STATES (70%); IRAN (56%); INDIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



346 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2694 words

HEADLINE: Metropolitan Art

BYLINE: By John Updike. 
John Updike's new book, ''Still Looking: Essays on American Art,'' will be published in November.

 BODY:
NEW ART CITY
 By Jed Perl.
 Illustrated. 641 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. 
 $35.
A hundred pages shorter than Andre Malraux's ''Voices of Silence,'' which surveyed art from its first traces in caves up to the present as of 1953, and a hundred pages longer than Robert Hughes's ''Shock of the New,'' which in 1981 took on modern art from Cezanne to Pop, Op, Happenings and Earthworks, Jed Perl's ''New Art City'' claims on its dust jacket to cover only ''Manhattan at midcentury.'' This is not a coffee-table art book; its illustrations, though numerous, are small, and black-and-white. A dense text rules the textbook-sized pages -- 557 of them, not counting notes, acknowledgments and index. Can there be that much to say about so concentrated a space and span of time? Have no fear: Perl, the art critic for The New Republic, is a fiercely fluent word-spinner, and he comes laden with a staggering knowledge of American artists and their critics from, say, 
 1948, when Willem de Kooning had his first one-man show and Jackson Pollock began to drip in earnest, down to 1982, when Donald Judd began to colonize the flat wilderness of Marfa, Tex., with 100 same-sized aluminum boxes.
 The book could have been called ''Abstract Expressionism and Its Aftermath,'' except that the Abstract Expressionists themselves are given relatively curt treatment, as if the author doesn't dare look at the sun too long. Perl devotes the bulk of his philosophically intricate and aesthetically subtle considerations to the second-generation ''colonizers rather than explorers'' (in B. H. Friedman's paraphrase of W. H. Auden) whose fate it was ''to live in an Age of Silver, or maybe of Lead.'' This book's roll call tends to proceed two by two; it opens with de Kooning and Hans Hofmann, a pair of mature immigrants with an Old World passion for brushed paint, and ends with Fairfield Porter and Donald Judd, an unlikely duo of Silver Age ''empiricists'' -- that is, in Perl's terms, practitioners more concerned with the reality before them than with any romantic role in the historical progression of art styles. 
 The thesis of the book, to be blunt about it, is that art in Manhattan passed in midcentury and beyond from the nighttime creations of existential, heroic, romantic, art-history-minded revolutionaries hardened in the 30's to the daytime works of empirical, eclectic, unheroic, relatively theory-free individualists who had ripened in the shadow of the action-painting giants. These giants are evoked here and there in the book -- Mark Rothko and Barnett Newman toward the end -- and not always in worshipful terms. Pollock, Perl tells us, ''was an artist with a fine-tuned, rather small lyric gift'' graced by a big support system and a ton of publicity; by the end of the 40's ''the technique of dripping or flinging the paint, which Pollock originally borrowed from the Surrealists . . . soon became repetitive, a maze of lines that lock up the canvas all too efficiently.'' Concerning another paint-flinging giant, Franz Kline, Perl admires his famous personal charm and the ''buoyant, open-ended, angst-less void'' expressed by his whites but complains that ''Kline's swaggering black-and-white abstractions can have a perfunctory look -- they suggest a too easily existentialized romanticism.'' Perl's least qualified and most strenuous praise is for such relatively undersung achievements as Joan Mitchell's scrubbily brushed abstractions, Nell Blaine's nearly naive still lifes, Leland Bell's heavily simplified nudes and the obscure Earl Kerkam's worried, often incomplete nudes and self-portraits, expressing ''a quieter kind of yearning'' as opposed to de Kooning's ''gonzo, exhibitionistic romanticism.'' 
 Well, in our anarchic post-Silver age, we are all free to like what we like, and patience with the lesser lights is what an art critic is paid for. Perl's long trek through the Silver Age galleries, however, is a wearying one. His pace enthusiastically picks up with such distinctive artists as David Smith, Joseph Cornell, Alex Katz and the abstract, pre-cartoon-brut Philip Guston, but our overall impression of being buried in an avalanche of reworked art reviews is reinforced by the inclusion of more and more quotation of other critics, at greatest length Harold Rosenberg and Clement Greenberg. Perl prefers the more doctrinaire Greenberg. He accuses Rosenberg of seeming to be ''riffing on Greenberg's ideas, giving his formalist sense of tradition an existentialist zing'' and of composing an essay that is ''all glittering bits -- a hot-air construction.'' 
 While one would not mistake Perl's hip, allusion-rich prose for hot air, it does, in its schematizing ease and eager phrasemaking, attain a warm-air status. As warm air will, it can induce a certain grogginess. ''If oil paint was tradition, collage was revolution, but of course the kind of painting that was done on 10th Street was very much related to the revolution of Cubist collage, and so the connection between painting and collage was complicated, part of the loopy history of modern art'': a sentence like this leads us perilously close to nowhere. Complication goes without saying; we wait for the illuminating generalization. The words ''existential'' and ''empirical'' remain hazy, as much as Perl loves and uses them. The verb ''existentialize'' doesn't exist in my dictionary, and I groped to attach meanings to such nuanced variations of the concept as ''in their wackily existentialist way'' and the report that some Buckminster Fuller domes were sent out ''into the world in a pure, almost existentialized form.'' Almost existentialized -- an unlucky near miss! 
 In his commendable desire to stretch the language of visual perception and philosophical understanding, Perl coins compound adjectives as if hyphens were snowing upon his word processor. We have: ''the individual's at-an-angle relationship with society,'' ''go-with-the-flow neighbors,'' ''an increasingly knit-together, everything-is-one-thing, homogenous character,'' ''knock-you-in-your-teeth actualities,'' ''the wacky-bleak fascination of a play by Samuel Beckett,'' ''this everything-becoming-something-else moment,'' ''more-than-material yet grounded in the materials of art,'' ''the whatever-happens-happens nihilism,'' ''Ashbery's go-with-what-amuses-you attitude,'' and ''the stark, nobody-knows-you-when-you're-down-and-out decrepitude.'' Some of these Germanic compounds, like ''at-an-angle'' and ''go-with-the-flow,'' are handy enough to be used more than once, but they are, along with stretch adverbs like ''amazingly,'' ''infinitely'' and ''immensely,'' and such tenuous concepts as ''everydayness,'' ''brownishness'' and an ''ordinariness'' that ''melts into the silveriness of the images,'' symptomatic of the stresses placed on the vocabulary of those who would write about art. 
 And write about art modern man evidently must. (Full disclosure: I myself have a book of art reviews, infinitely modest, coming out this fall.) The belief that, as the premises of religion and patriotism suffer discredit, an inspiring humanism still lives in the production of paintings and sculpture afflicts us all. Volumes of commentary both precede and follow creative acts. Cezanne and the masters of Impressionism were relatively inarticulate -- their theories spoke in their praxis -- but since then every movement has had its manifestoes, and some of the announced programs, as with the Italian Futurists and English Vorticists, proved more vivid than their visual byproducts. And some, as with Dada, made the denial of art their program. Of the Abstract Expressionists, Pollock and Kline wrote little, but Motherwell and Newman and, most grandiosely, Clyfford Still, wrote and opined much. It is the nature of 20th-century art to cast a dense literary shadow. When one reads, in Perl's last two chapters, of the pungent and aggressive reviews of contemporary shows that Judd and Porter produced for art journals, one wonders if proving themselves as art critics wasn't a way of lending credibility to their own works -- what Perl might describe as the in-your-face-affectless constructions of Judd and the I-paint-what-I-see-and-so-what canvases of Porter.
 If one of the underlying messages of ''New Art City'' is that heroic ''existential'' Abstract Expressionism was something to get over, and another is that an ''empirical'' Silver Age mix of representational and abstract private styles shouldn't be sniffed at, he takes a dark view of the mighty movement that came in between, beloved of collectors and of the nonbuying public alike. Perl sees Pop as the return of Dada, which didn't deserve an encore. Marcel Duchamp -- with Piet Mondrian Manhattan's most dramatic elder in exile -- strikes Perl as a sinister eminence grise. He quotes an article composed by the gallery owners Sidney and Harriet Janis in 1945; it explains of the Frenchman Duchamp, whose American career amounted to little more than a few arresting stunts, that he ''has worked out a system that has produced a new atmosphere in which irony functions like an activating element, causing a pendulum-like oscillation between acceptance and rejection, affirmation and negation, and rendering them both dynamic and productive.'' 
 Perl's comment is uncharacteristically sharp: ''Here, in some carefully chosen words about Duchamp published at the end of World War II, we are face to face with a vision of artistic development as amusingly slippery or ironically aimless that would become commonplace a little more than a decade later. It's a poisonous attitude, so I believe.'' When, in 1958, Dada's deadpan irony was reborn in Jasper Johns's first show, Perl gets personal and nearly nasty:
 ''Johns liked to give his surfaces a beguiling complexity, often with glued-on layers of newspaper. The surfaces were worked over -- worried over. In all of these paintings, there was a suggestion of the collage or the ready-made, for Johns's sensitized surfaces became a mocking echo of the pancake-flat object -- a flag or a target or a map -- that he had taken as his subject. He used his slurpy encaustic paint to make painterly love to his quotidian subjects. He was slumming -- oh so elegantly.'' 
 Irony, mockery -- these are poisonous, presumably to the health of the humanistic enterprise, diminishing ''the grandeur of art'' so that it ''was no longer a force that by pushing artists forward granted them their freedom.'' Johns's painstaking technique of encaustic over collage is ''slurpy,'' an image that becomes, in ''painterly love,'' curiously sexual. The critic tells us what Johns likes, and when he is slumming. He does not entertain the possibility that the famous flags and targets and maps were a way of coping with the chronic modernist issues of representation and reality, central to the surreal puns of Max Ernst and Magritte and Dali. And yet in other instances Perl grants artists the freedom to do what feels right, to let each work be ''an attempt to give form a shape that matched the artist's emotion.'' The concomitant obligation is to avoid doing what doesn't feel right, and Johns, with many in his generation, avoided trying to redo the great deeds of Western art, including the flamboyant gestures of the Abstract Expressionists. An image that is also a thing -- a flag or target or map -- is one way to subdue Expressionism while keeping painterliness.
 Pop was a counterrevolution that made art experts feel, as Leo Steinberg admitted, like philistines. Perl quotes with zesty approval Fairfield Porter's disparaging review of a Johns retrospective in 1964, as displaying ''the course of an education that has been carried out in public.'' Porter went on, ''It shows the reaction to his education of an individual intelligent enough at first to take in all that he is being taught while giving it only part of his attention.'' Perl adds, ''And so Jasper Johns went straight to the top of the class.'' Usually noncombative, Perl on Pop takes sides all over the place; Leo Steinberg, quoted on Johns as an ally, is guilty of ''an avant-garde softheadedness'' when he tries to find something good to say about Robert Rauschenberg's enigmatic combines: ''What he liked about Rauschenberg's work was the mushy meanderings that the combines kicked off in his mind.'' 
 As for Roy Lichtenstein and Andy Warhol, they are understood as deft perpetrators of implicitly fraudulent effects: Lichtenstein's blown-up comic strips won acceptance because ''they were susceptible to a kind of formalist, Bauhaus-inspired analysis that had been familiar at least since the 1940's,'' and Warhol, who left doing shoe advertisements to imitate Lichtenstein's big cartoons, happened, in his factory of duplication, on ''one Pop subject that had an immediate, visceral appeal for a sophisticated (and even for an intellectual) audience: the movies.'' Cleverly concentrating on stars associated with intellectuals like Arthur Miller and Richard Burton, he ''presented gallerygoers with a Hollywood universe in which just about everybody had at one time or another found a fantasy of romantic involvement. The whole arrangement worked beautifully for the part of the audience that wasn't interested in heterosexual sex.'' The little sting in this last phrase brings us to the matter of ''sophisticated campy taste'' that flavors the Pop movement; many if not most of the name artists were homosexual, and an ''at-an-angle'' derision of the straight world blinds Perl, it seems to me, to the innocence of Pop's basic appeal; as with Norman Rockwell's Post covers, the public recognized elements of the world it lived in. Claes Oldenburg, who wound up designing drolly huge public monuments, began, in 1961, with ''The Store,'' a mock emporium located in a working-class district where the East Village met the Lower East Side, stocked with grungy, brightly and messily enameled plaster replicas of merchandise -- candy bars, men's suits, pastries, corsets -- redolent of the 1940's. Perl offers an sour epigram: ''An art without a will of its own was an art drifting into nostalgia -- that was always the condition of Pop.'' 
 The Pop episode prompts the sole deviation from Perl's ''what-happens-happens,'' ''go-with-what-amuses-you'' survey. He is as fondly respectful of Cornell's fey little boxes of assemblage as he is affronted by Rauschenberg's brut combines, and Judd's artifacts, which might seem as impudently blank as Johns's flags, are cherished for the aesthetic values they bring over from the industrial world: his plywood boxes ''were about the beauty of plywood, its color, its patterning, its edges with their sandwiched layers.'' No Dada urinals, snow shovels or bottle racks need apply, without those buzz-sawed, sandwiched layers.
 The book's title and subtitle lead a reader to expect more concrete speculation as to why New York, which after all didn't lack bohemian strivers prior to 1945, replaced Paris as the world's art capital. One reason is perhaps too obvious for Perl to dwell on: the city was the economic capital of the only major combatant nation to emerge from World War II with its infrastructure intact and its civilian population unharmed. The private wealth of the postwar boom was a more flexible and lavish patron than the government's Depression mural projects could be. The expanding size of the Abstract Expressionist canvases, an index of their ambition and their strategy of engulfing the viewer, related to the size of the cheap lofts being vacated by downtown Manhattan's declining industries. The bold splashes found receptive pale walls in the rising skyscraper city, its swell midtown apartments and its newly fashionable museums. Downtown abounded in cheap living, found art, permissive cafeterias and jazzed-up friends. An Englishman, Cyril Connolly, in Horizon in 1947, said it best: New York presented ''an unforgettable picture of what a city ought to be: that is, continuously insolent and alive, a place where one can buy a book or meet a friend at any hour of the day or night.'' He promised, ''Something important is about to happen.'' Who feels that now?


GRAPHIC: Photos: Willem de Kooning, photograph by Arnold Newman, 1959. Joan Mitchell in her Paris studio, 1956 photo by Loomis Dean. (Photograph by Time Life Pictures/Getty Images)
Top picture, Franz Kline, photographed by Fritz Goro in 1954. Below it, left, Marcel Duchamp in his West 14th Street studio, about 1956
 right, Jackson Pollock in a photo by Martha Holmes, 1949. (Photographs by Duchamp by Waintraub-Budd Photography, From ''New Art City''/Others, Time Life Pictures/Getty Images)Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ART HISTORY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); WRITERS (69%) 

PERSON: John Updike; Jed Perl

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



347 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; POSSESSED; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: City Planner Manque Still Thinks Tall

BYLINE: By DAVID COLMAN

 BODY:
EVEN the most painstakingly accurate map is at heart a phony. It presents itself as passive, just attempting to define, to delineate. Meanwhile it is furtively, actively striving to corral with boundaries, crisscross with roads, create with lines.
 Visitors to the storied Restaurant Florent in the meatpacking district of Manhattan might not grasp such lofty fine points from the maps lining the bistro's walls. Since the city names are obscured (Is that Rotterdam?), it's tough to grasp anything about them at all. 
A suite of maps in the SoHo apartment of Florent Morellet, the bistro's owner, is even more baffling. With nothing more than the sinuous contours of the Seine in common, the six maps are actually fantasy metropolises: one in the Midwestern United States, one in central Africa, one of Paris after World War III. They were meticulously created in obsessive-compulsive fits by Mr. Morellet, who has been poring over maps since he was a child in Paris.
 But a career in city planning, briefly envisioned when he was studying at Central London Polytechnic in the early 1970's, was not to be. ''Fourteen of the 15 students were very P.C. and green and anti-skyscraper,'' he recalled. ''And here I was, who thought that Paris was boring, too flat.'' His proposition that there should be a skyscraper at each of Paris's great radial intersections was not met with open arms. 
 In 1978 Mr. Morellet fled Europe for Skyscraper Central and has been content ever since. He even did a little city planning, opening Florent 20 years ago in what was then a fringe neighborhood known for meat carcasses and leather bars. It reminded him of Les Halles, the Parisian late-night marketplace, which was famously demolished in the 70's and replaced with what he calls ''one of the worst urban renewal projects in the world.''
 With the ghost of Les Halles in mind, it makes sense that he would spearhead efforts to protect the low-rise meatpacking district and the derelict High Line viaduct adjacent to it. Still, he is torn at having gone to court in 2002 to stop a tower designed by Jean Nouvel, his countryman, from going up a block from his restaurant.
 ''I've found myself fighting the fabulous skyscrapers I love,'' Mr. Morellet said resignedly of his odd local-hero status. On Saturday a benefit to preserve the district and the viaduct is to be given in his honor at the nightclub Roxy. ''A city should have mountains, but it should have valleys as well.''
 So his favorite possession is somewhat ironic, or at least made of iron. It is an antique model of the Flatiron Building, the 1902 tower that went up at the intersection of 23rd Street, Fifth Avenue and Broadway, then a major crossroads. Its revolutionary steel frame wrapped with a curtain wall of limestone changed skyscraper construction forever.
 The Flatiron's place in history may be the reason the eight-and-a-quarter-inch model cost so much -- almost $800 -- in the 80's at the vintage-design shop Lost City Arts. But its importance is not what interests Mr. Morellet. 
 ''I love it because it's absurd,'' he said. ''It's the great folly of location, location, location. Economically it doesn't seem to make sense, all those weirdly shaped triangular floors.'' But its site and odd shape mean that as you come down Fifth Avenue you can experience the full 20 stories head on, which is the case of almost no other skyscraper. ''It's so beautiful,'' he said.
 The model harks back not just to Mr. Morellet's childhood love of making tall buildings from Legos but also to the early-20th-century youth of the skyscraper, to what now seems a simpler time, when buildings and the future all seemed to be looking up.
 But then, the future seems always to have looked brighter in the past. The trick is to appreciate the two, yet manage to live in the present. There ought to be a map.


GRAPHIC: Photos: LOCATION, LOCATION -- Florent Morellet, who found a home for his heart in the meatpacking district, and his model of the gloriously sited Flatiron Building. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); CITIES (76%) Restaurants ; Area Planning and Renewal; Flatiron Building (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: Restaurant Florent (NYC)

PERSON: David Colman; Florent Morellet

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); FRANCE (90%); CENTRAL AFRICA (71%); AFRICA (71%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



348 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1800 words

HEADLINE: See Daddy Make a Deal

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
A few weeks ago Nick Richardson, a writer of marketing materials who lives in Manhattan, took his oldest daughter, Emma, 6, to the birthday party of one of her former classmates. While he was chatting with another father -- someone Mr. Richardson had known since their children were at nursery school -- the other man mentioned that the advertising agency where he worked had won a major account. It would mean taking on new talent. Would Mr. Richardson be interested, the man asked, in having his name put forward for a job, adding persuasively, ''I think you would fit in perfectly.''
 For generations private schools have nurtured connections among the privileged, but the bonds were most likely to form among students, who carried their old school ties into business and the professions after graduation. Except for occasional meet-the-teachers evenings or concerts, parents spent little time at schools. But now in an age when parents are closely, even obsessively, involved in their children's lives, school activities have multiplied to include lectures on parenthood, ''take a parent to school'' days, science fairs, field days, parent breakfasts, sports dinners and spring auctions, all of which draw parents ever more closely together. 
''They now see each other all the time,'' said Howard Greene, an educational consultant in Westport, Conn., and New York City, who advises families about private schools. Doing business together ''becomes a natural extension of the deep friendships that grow from a base of personal trust, shared values and a shared destiny,'' he said. 
 Mr. Greene himself found a publisher when a fellow trustee of one of his four children's schools turned out to be interested in the education books he wrote.
 The newest world of business networking is therefore not the golf course, the power breakfast or the alumni reunion. It is the schoolhouse. As much as country clubs once did, schools -- especially private day schools -- are bringing together professionals and high-powered executives in a clubby atmosphere of mutual trust that some are finding particularly conducive to deal making. While school administrators can find the trend vexatious and erect barriers to prevent it, like forbidding the use of school directories for soliciting business, many parents discover school contacts are too priceless to ignore. 
 School officials say parents rarely go so far as to select a school just to rub a particularly influential set of elbows. ''We ask that our parents check adult agendas at the gate,'' said Timothy R. Bazemore, the headmaster of New Canaan Country School in Connecticut. ''Our parents understand that and agree.'' But what happens later, below the school radar, is probably inevitable, the same officials say.
 It is not, however, always benign. Jim Skrumbis, the headof school for Grades 9 through 12 at Sierra Canyon School in Chatsworth, Calif., and formerly a senior administrator at two other private schools in Los Angeles, recalled how a school-hatched business deal led to trouble. 
 ''There was this guy who was an inventor,'' he said, ''and he got in close with another parent, who put up some money for a special kind of golf club that was supposed to be big.'' The club succeeded, but the men joined in other investments that ran into financial troubles. They had a falling out, charges flew back and forth, and they ended up in litigation. The animosity between their families spilled over into their encounters at school. Other parents took sides, and Mr. Skrumbis had to mediate to keep peace. ''It can become uncomfortable both for the students, the parents and the school,'' he said.
 A major change propelling the trend, school officials say, has been the wave of involved fathers. Even a decade ago fathers wrote tuition checks but rarely participated in school life. Today ''you see far more dads volunteering for all sorts of things,'' said Bernice Hauser, the director of intercampus activities at Horace Mann School in Riverdale, the Bronx.
 Then there are the many mothers with careers. Their conversations in school hallways, auditoriums and conference rooms gravitate toward professional concerns. ''It has evolved as women's lives have changed,'' said Laura Lopata, who is married to Mr. Richardson, the marketing writer. Ms. Lopata is the president of Accent on Image, a small firm that coaches executives in interpersonal skills. She said she has several potential clients who can be traced to her school contacts.
 Professional networking is found in public schools, too, although it seems less common. Lance Wolfson of Brookville, N.Y., for example, says he has gained half a dozen customers for his commercial packaging business from fathers at local public schools, which three of his four children attend. Yet he has noticed better networking at the private school where his youngest son has just enrolled. After only six weeks Mr. Wolfson has picked up two new customers there.
 Other parents with children in both public and private schools observed that public school parents are more likely to leave business at the schoolhouse door. They note that public schools are typically larger, students' families have a wider range of incomes and, perhaps most important, public schools do not have the clubhouse mentality of private schools -- the result of winning admission, steep tuition and social homogeneity. 
 Private schools also tap parents to help in capital fund drives, introducing a climate of business into the life of the school. ''There is usually a development person at each private school who actively recruits the fathers for this sort of work,'' said Helene Abramson of Princeton, N.J., whose four children have attended a mix of public and private schools. And the friendships that ensue more easily lead to business dealings.
 Fund-raising is done in public schools, too, but often limited to raising money for activities not covered by the school budget, like outside speakers or buses for team sports. And parents say these fund-raisers are more likely to be led by at-home mothers. Mrs. Abramson, who worked on auctions for her children's public schools, said, ''I only remember one father being part of our committee in all the three years I was active.''
 The business networking at public schools is lower key, said Ellen Gefen of Greensboro, N.C., whose children have attended both public and private schools. It is more likely, she said, among ''the moms with a small home-based business looking for help, or a life-style issue such as using a parent who is also a doctor.'' 
 School connections have led to whole new businesses. Colleen Ambrose, a mother of four children who attended New York private schools, said that her fashion line, Courtney Vaughan, which makes dresses for 10- to 14-year-olds, developed from school contacts. She met her partner, Brigid Merriman, 19 years ago when their daughters were in preschool. After seeing how difficult it was to find formal dresses for preteenagers, they started their business, now eight years old. 
 Similarly, George Birnbaum, a lawyer specializing in commercial and employment litigation, gained clients through contacts he made when his two daughters attended New Canaan Country School and Greenwich Academy in Connecticut. 
 ''There is no question that I have come in contact with some very powerful business people,'' said Mr. Birnbaum, a partner in Minogue Birnbaum. ''They get to judge you as a person when they see you with your children. And that makes them more comfortable. Would I have known them otherwise? I really don't know.''
 The parents have reason to trust one another. ''You think to yourself, 'You're not going to steer me wrong because we will have to face each other time and again over the next few years,''' said Cindy Morriss, a parent volunteer at St. Stephen's Episcopal School in Austin, Tex. 
 Private schools, aware of their responsibility to safeguard the privacy of families, some of whom pay $20,000 or more for tuition each year, have strict policies against putting school directories to business uses. The disclaimer posted in the 2005-6 parents' association directory of Marymount School in Manhattan, is typical: ''For reasons of privacy and safety, it is school policy not to give out the parents/student list to anyone for commercial purposes, nor to allow the use of the address lists by anyone within the Marymount community for solicitation or any commercial purpose.''
 At St. Luke's School in Greenwich Village a prohibition against using school lists for marketing or business is written into the handbook parents receive when their children are enrolled, said Ann Mellow, the head of school. Some schools limit their directory to the class list, said Victoria Goldman, the author of the newest edition of ''The Manhattan Family Guide to Private Schools and Selective Public Schools.'' 
 ''We need a giant stop sign placed in front of parents who think they can use the school directory or even the class list as a surfing opportunity for their business interests,'' Ms. Goldman said. ''I absolutely think it's gauche, inappropriate and opportunistic.'' 
 Yet school networking rarely takes the form of exploitation of telephone and address lists. It is usually much more subtle. Monica Longworth, who has two children who have attended private school in Manhattan, said it is easy to discern the line between forming a friendship that later blossoms into a business relationship and ''developing a personal relationship solely for business purposes.'' An example of the first, she said, is her friendship with a mother at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Day School when their daughters were in preschool there. The woman still refers clients to her marketing consulting business.
 On the other hand Ms. Longworth recalls one father, an insurance salesman who had a son in her son's school, who telephoned repeatedly to invite her husband to socialize outside school. As they had never been particularly friendly in school, his motives seemed all too clear.
 And then there are school administrators who like the idea of business contacts among parents, reasoning that they can even be good for the school. ''It can work wonders for development,'' said Nicholas Thacher, who has been working as a head of private day schools for more than 30 years, most recently as the interim head of Dedham Country Day School in Massachusetts. ''Parents will see it as a legitimate way to contact peers and at the same time learn about shared business interests.''
 Ultimately these schools could benefit from the trend. As a result they may come to view business networking with less trepidation. Besides, ''it's going to happen anyhow,'' observed Ms. Gefen, echoing a widely held view among parents.


GRAPHIC: Photos: SCHOOL TIES -- Parents who made business connections through their children's schools: Lance Wolfson, a packaging designer, right
far right, George Birnbaum, a lawyer
and top, Brigid Merriman, left, and Colleen Ambrose, who met at their daughters' preschool and formed a dress line, Courtney Vaughan. (Photos by Phil Marino for The New York Times
above right, Douglas Healey for The New York Times
 top, Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. 6)Drawing (Drawing by Bruce Roberts)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); WRITERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TRENDS (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PARENTS (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); FAMILY (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (67%); GOLF (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%) Education and Schools; Private and Sectarian Schools; Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Andree Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



349 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Final Stages

BYLINE: By William Goldstein. 
William Goldstein, a member of the American Federation of Musicians, has composed scores for films and musicals.

 BODY:
AS the new theater season opens, Broadway has a serious problem that threatens its very existence. 
 Sure, grosses have never been higher and audiences last season were the largest in the last 20 years, but the number of actors and musicians working on Broadway is way down. Today, there are 75 percent fewer actors and musicians employed than in the 1940's. Back then, 88 shows, on average, opened per season (double the number produced today), and musicals had 40 to 60 actors on stage and 26 to 50 musicians in the pit.
Production costs are out of control. A musical that cost $300,000 to produce 50 years ago costs close to $10 million today. And a play that was produced for $75,000 in 1944 would now cost about $2 million. Even after accounting for inflation, today's costs are as much as 4.5 times greater than they were half a century ago. While production costs are about 33 times higher than they were in the 1940's, ticket prices are only about 14.5 times higher. As a result, a show that 50 years ago might have paid off its backers after three months now needs to run for nearly two years to break even. 
 These costs are keeping producers from taking risks. In the 40's and 50's, a single person could produce a play; now it takes a half-dozen and corporate backing. Thus, nearly half as many plays are produced. 
 If this trend continues, it could spell the end of New York as the home of one of America's great cultural contributions, the Broadway show. Some are already suggesting that Las Vegas is becoming the new theater capital.
 So, what's the answer? 
 Sadly, there's no easy solution, but here are some suggestions that could economically revitalize Broadway. For starters, the city could help. New York gives tax breaks to large employers to keep them in the city. Why not offer similar tax breaks to Broadway? 
 The city could set aside part of property tax revenue from theaters, and start a fund available to Broadway productions during their run. The fund could aid shows struggling to find an audience by kicking in when low box office revenues lead to the waiving of royalty payments (that percentage of weekly gross paid to the show's creators). The fund would lend at zero percent interest, up to 50 percent of a show's operating cost for up to four weeks. If the show recovers, the money would be returned to the fund.
 And there's more we could do. The challenge, of course, is to lower costs, stimulate more productions, put more performers to work and still maintain a respectable wage. These goals could be achieved if all the people involved in putting on a show were willing to share in the risks and rewards.
 Union leaders could begin a hire-more-actors-and-musicians campaign. Instead of trying to get higher salaries and benefits for the fewer and fewer actors and musicians working on Broadway, union leaders could make it their goal to get more people working. This could be achieved by having union leaders and producers agree on a sliding salary scale based on the number of performers employed. 
 The more actors or musicians hired, the lower the scale. At 40 actors or musicians, the lowest pay scale would be reached. When a show is in trouble and royalties are waived, actors and musicians would be required to work at half their salary for up to 60 days or until the show returns to profitability. The stagehands union could agree to a similar program.
 On a hit show, producers would pay bonuses to all performers and stagehands above current scale. These bonuses could come from a predetermined percentage of the show's profits.
 This strategy would keep more shows open and more people working. In comparison to the writers who spend years creating shows with no income until their show is produced, these are small sacrifices for actors and musicians to make for the greater good.
 Theater owners occasionally reduce theater rentals when the show's creators and producers waive all royalties. This should become the norm. 
 And the news media could help, too. Reviews could be opened up to include commentary by people who are not professional critics. In literary reviews, authors and experts, not just professional critics, assess books. This healthy infusion of ideas would go a long way toward balancing the near stranglehold that professional critics wield over the theater. 
 Working together, politicians, union leaders, producers, actors, musicians, theater owners and the news media can revitalize Broadway, enabling producers to recreate the golden years of New York theater by putting on magical shows with large casts and orchestras and opening the door to new successes that will become tomorrow's classics. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); TRENDS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); CITY LIFE (67%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); ROYALTIES (61%) Theater

PERSON: William Goldstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



350 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2437 words

HEADLINE: Lights Out

BYLINE: By JEFF VANDAM

 BODY:
THE old man in the khaki pants, white high-tops and navy windbreaker crooned a tune of his own composition as he wandered slowly down Buffalo Avenue past a green sedan held together with duct tape.

 What you say
 What you gonna doooooo --
 They gonna close the hospital.

 A smiling figure in a black sweatshirt called out to him. ''Hey, you better have good health insurance.'' 
 Without turning his head, the singer continued his ambling toward nowhere in particular. ''Man, I been coming here since Bush was president, the first Bush,'' he remarked. ''But I got the same coverage as Bush, man.'' 
This was a joke, and his audience, the handful of people hanging out in front of St. Mary's Hospital, laughed, but not much. Rather, the mood on this shabby street in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, was elegiac, almost melancholy. As nurses in crisp white uniforms exited the building on Sept. 30, the Friday of their last full work week, people who were gathered on the sidewalk called out affectionately to them, ''Take care, baby.'' 
 The hospital, a concrete and glass colossus emblazoned with enormous metal crosses that sits a few blocks north of Eastern Parkway, was preparing to close out a century and a quarter of service to its neighborhood. A 241-bed Roman Catholic institution that laid its cornerstone on this blocklong site in 1879, it had long served as the neighborhood's pulse, albeit an increasingly weak one. Now, the hospital having run out of money, the pulse barely registered. 
 Although inpatient services were scheduled to end officially on Oct. 4, the hospital building was already nearly empty. In the emergency room, where lines of people used to wait to register, a single nurse sat at a desk, a few paperback copies of Lippincott's drug guides stacked haphazardly on the counter. No one waited in the waiting room, its magazines sat unread, and ''A Current Affair'' unwatched on the television set. In the examining rooms, X-ray machines poised over tables pointed down at -- nobody.
 The hospital's parent organization, St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers, had filed for bankruptcy protection in July, following years of growing debts -- currently more than $1 billion -- and declining revenues. By the end, St. Vincent concluded, there was no financially feasible way to keep St. Mary's open. It had lost money as if through a sieve, and in the past few years, lost wards-full of patients.
 Statistics tell the story. Since 1999, the first year St. Vincent began keeping data on St. Mary's, inpatient occupancy had hovered at unsustainable levels -- in other words, not enough patients to pay the bills. In 2004, the portion of beds filled by inpatients had dropped to 57 percent, down from a recent high of 64 percent in 2002, still not enough in its own right to make ends meet. The hospital was losing $10 million a year, and a range of factors -- better technology, fewer surgical cases, less violent crime, a pronounced drop in AIDS-related admissions -- had meant fewer patients and shorter stays at St. Mary's.
 Local hospitals are not necessarily a city's best hospitals, but they are often among the most cherished, especially in the low-income neighborhoods where so many of them are. In these communities, having a local hospital is a little like having a family doctor nearby. You can walk to their clinics and emergency rooms, and when you arrive, the faces of the nurses and the doctors, even the faces of the people at the desk, are familiar. If there's an emergency, it's comforting to know that some sort of medical care is close at hand. 
 Like the local library, the local movie theater and the local playground, they are part of the glue that binds neighborhoods together. But with the growth of mega-institutions, and medical economics having grown ever more complex and unforgiving, such glue is in increasingly short supply.

An Ambulance at a Fast Trot
 The message posted on the hospital's entrance was clear and without detail: ''It is with deep regret that we announce the closing of St. Mary's Hospital Brooklyn effective October 4.'' Those needing immediate help were told to contact Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center, a private hospital a mile away in East Flatbush that was to take over management of six of St. Mary's seven clinics.
 The message brought a curt end to a formidable past. Here, for more than a century, residents flocked to the emergency room -- in decades past for diseases like influenza, smallpox and polio, in more recent years for asthma, diabetes and AIDS-related illnesses. Even in the hospital's last weeks, a gallery of St. Mary's past still hung on the wall in the front hallway, black-framed photographs that traced the institution's role as a beacon of the community.
 The most noticeable elements in the photos were the nuns who supplemented the medical staff: nuns with patients, nuns with doctors, nuns performing experiments in a lab. They looked caring, as did the other hospital workers whose images lined the wall. In one photo, smiling, newly certified nurses posed in a sort of chorus line; in another they flanked a 100-year-old man, grinning gleefully as he held a sign commemorating his birthday.
 The hospital's history and its relationship with Crown Heights come alive in these pictures. But in reality, St. Mary's was born in a modest building four miles away.
 In 1867, a tiny house at Congress and Clinton Streets in Cobble Hill became the first St. Mary's, guided by John Loughlin, the Bishop of Brooklyn. Called St. Mary's Female Hospital, it was managed by four nuns who are said to have been so keen to begin their duties that they ate their first meal standing up and using borrowed dishes.
 With money raised by the hospital's Ladies Aid Association, the institution soon moved a few blocks away to roomier quarters on Dean Street, but those, too, were not enough for Bishop Loughlin, who was concerned especially about the number of children in the infants' ward. He then selected another site, a blocklong plot farther out in Brooklyn just north of the recently completed Eastern Parkway, where he hoped to build a true general hospital. 
 That neighborhood, known as Crown Heights, had been growing, made enticing by the promenades and carriage paths of the broad, tree-lined parkway. Home to some of New York's earliest free black settlements, Crown Heights was seen by the gentry as the appropriate setting for their new mansions, and slightly less affluent New Yorkers had begun taking up residence in brick and limestone row houses sprouting up in the area.
 In October 1879, construction began on the new St. Mary's, on a block bounded by St. Marks Avenue, Prospect Place, and Buffalo and Rochester Avenues. The results, completed in 1882, were impressive: an elegant brick Second Empire-style complex with gardens, trees and wrought-iron fences housing eight wards, 50 private rooms and, starting in 1883, ambulance service, provided by a dashing horse-drawn carriage.
 For nearly a century, St. Mary's stood as a center of progress. A nursing school opened in the early 1900's; schools of medical and X-ray technology arrived at midcentury. As the hospital acquired more patients, more medical students and more prestige, construction began in 1976 on a new building, a $38 million tower that a hospital fact sheet described as ''ultra-modern.'' At the time, it seemed the only direction St. Mary's could go was up.

The E.R. on the Corner
 When the newest St. Mary's officially opened on Feb. 17, 1979, Katrina McCloud, 6 years old and suffering from rheumatoid arthritis in her right knee, was one of its first patients. 
 ''Everything was new; we were really moving into a new era,'' said Ms. McCloud,a cheerful 32-year-old with round cheeks and a beaming smile. Today, she and her 56-year-old mother, Harriet, share a two-bedroom apartment on Prospect Place, exactly one block from St. Mary's emergency room; the two have never lived more than a few blocks from the hospital.
 It rained the day young Katrina first stepped inside the new building, but despite the weather, the sense of possibility seemed almost tangible. The hospital featured a gleaming emergency room, new beds, new medical equipment, and only the best in aesthetic design. ''The motif has been balanced in a very natural tradition of bright and lively colors so that patients and visitors experience a warm and comfortable feeling at St. Mary's,'' the hospital fact sheet said. The hope, of course, was that the new St. Mary's would last as long as its venerable predecessor.
 But the hospital experienced considerable change over the next two decades, as did the neighborhood around it. No longer did the rich saunter down Eastern Parkway in top hats; now, the hats were more likely to belong to the large population of Hasidic Jews who moved to the area in the first half of the 20th century. The other main ethnic group was African-Americans, largely of Caribbean descent; in 1991, their clash with their Jewish neighbors exploded in violence that redefined politics and social relations in New York. This second group, a low-income population highly dependent on Medicare and Medicaid, has provided most of the hospital's patients in recent decades.
 Harriet McCloud's mother is one of those patients. Her lined, gaunt face makes her look much older than her years, and because she is frail and cannot walk well, she needs a wheelchair to get around. She has lost sight in one eye, which she squints so much it is almost closed. She also suffers from myriad ailments -- congestive heart failure, kidney failure, hypertension, diabetes -- that have made regular trips to the emergency room a sad family tradition. Her health problems have worsened over the years, so much so that they have come to dominate both her life and her daughter's. 
 ''My mom,'' Ms. McCloud said, ''is a sick woman.'' 

A Fragile Fabric of Care
 Like so many urban hospitals, in New York and beyond, St. Mary's died a slow death. 
 Overwhelmingly, hospitals that have closed their doors have been in minority areas like Crown Heights that have also lost a number of private medical practices. (A state-sponsored group, the Berger Commission, is currently studying ways to ''right-size'' New York's hospital industry, prompting fears of more such closures.) The result is an overburdened institution and an acute lack of local doctors, bringing down the overall level of medical care available in the area.
 ''It's a little bit like a well-maintained car with a good motor and new wheels, but no transmission,'' said Alan Sager, director of the Health Reform Program at Boston University, a policy study group. 
 For 30 years, Dr. Sager has tracked national hospital closings and other indexes of health care, and his numbers suggest a domino effect, one in which patients displaced by one hospital take costly multiple diagnoses to the next closest one, putting added stress on its resources, and so on. In the northeast section of Brooklyn, where St. Mary's is, 27 hospitals (not counting St. Mary's) providing a total of 3,689 beds have closed since 1936.
 For patients, many of whom who have spent years cultivating relationships with doctors and nurses at a specific hospital, the problems can be daunting. As Dr. Sager put it, ''That fabric of care, once it's shredded or torn by the closing of a hospital, is very hard to reweave.''
 In the last few years, St. Mary's saw both its revenues and its patient population drop with alarming speed. Last May alone, the hospital, with an annual budget of $134 million, lost $3.8 million, and the percentage of occupied beds had decreased sharply.
 According to St. Vincent, the operating losses, combined with a lack of money to make needed improvements, made closing the institution the last but only choice. A year earlier, St. Vincent had begun negotiations to transfer operational control of St. Mary's to Kingsbrook Healthcare System, but the deal fell through; the $10 million per year required just to cover St. Mary's losses proved too great a sum. 
 Over the summer, as the transfer moved through bankruptcy court, Crown Heights residents held their collective breath. Early last month, St. Vincent received permission from the court to close the hospital and set a date: Oct. 4 of this year, 138 years after Bishop Loughlin opened the first St. Mary's.
 Even now, the fate of the hospital building is unclear. All that is known is that its ambulatory care center will remain open for up to three months.

Uneasy Journeys
 The routes from Buffalo Avenue to Brooklyn's surviving hospitals do not immediately suggest that St. Mary's former patients will have an easy time making their way to other institutions.
 Kingsbrook, the hospital recommended to St. Mary's patients and the institution that will run its clinics, is probably the closest, 1.3 miles away. For a healthy person, the trip by foot takes about 25 minutes; for a sick person, probably much longer. 
 Even for someone in the best of health, there is no easy way to make the journey by subway. A person would have to take the No. 4 train from the Utica Avenue station, a 10-minute walk from St. Mary's, then transfer at Franklin Avenue for the 2 or 5 train to Winthrop Street, which is another 10-minute walk from Kingsbrook. The bus routes between the two institutions are not much better; a person would have to transfer from the B15 to the B46, which runs along Utica Avenue. 
 The trip to Interfaith Medical Center, in Bedford-Stuyvesant, is slightly easier, a ride north on the B15 bus, which travels a long and busy route between Bedford-Stuyvesant and Kennedy Airport. Yet on that line, according to riders who share their experiences on the Straphangers Campaign online bulletin board, buses rarely arrive on schedule, and stops are sometimes skipped. 
 For Katrina and Harriet McCloud, none of the options look very good, nor does paying a car service $5 to $10 to ferry them to a hospital each time an emergency occurs.
 But they will have to find a way now, as they did a few weeks ago, when Harriet McCloud was taken to New York Methodist Hospital in Park Slope with kidney problems resulting from dialysis. The next morning, exhausted from treatment, she and her daughter found few transportation options back to Crown Heights. 
 Harriet McCloud has announced that distance aside, she just doesn't want to go to another hospital. Her daughter is simply trying to figure out the logistics.
 ''Starting today, the reality is setting in,'' Katrina McCloud said a few days ago. ''No, you do not have a hospital to walk to anymore.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: DAYS OF THEIR LIVES -- Nurses at the first St. Mary's, above left
groundbreaking in the 1970's for the hospital's current home, above
Dr. John Byrne, far left, its first surgeon-in-chief
and, left, an early ambulance. (Photographs from St. Mary's Hospital)
THE DAY AFTER -- The emergency room, empty of patients and nearly everything else. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)(pg. 12)
NOW, THEN -- Gordon Sumner (facing camera), a 35-year hospital veteran. Inset,St. Mary's first home in the neighborhood. (Photos by Above, Jonathan Fickies for The New York Times
inset, St. Mary's Hospital)
 ''It is with deep regret . . . '' (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); HOSPITAL OCCUPANCY RATES (77%); NURSES & NURSING (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%) Medicine and Health; Shutdowns (Institutional); Hospitals; Finances

ORGANIZATION: St Mary's Hospital (NYC); Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: Jeff Vandam

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Crown Heights (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



351 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Offers Details of Plan For Open Markets in China

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: XIANGHE, China, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is expected to present China's political leaders on Sunday with a sweeping plan to overhaul China's financial markets and open the country to foreign banks, investment firms and insurance companies.
 Administration officials say the plan is part of an effort to put the yuan into a broader debate over China's lopsided reliance on exports as the main source of economic growth.
The plan, to be discussed in two days of talks here and in Beijing, calls for China to speed up the privatization of state-owned companies, including banks; to develop a Chicago-style futures market for currency trading; to establish an independent credit-rating agency; and to crack down on bailouts for banks left holding bad loans.
 ''What we tried to do is take a quantum leap in sophistication and scope,'' said Timothy D. Adams, undersecretary for international affairs at the Treasury Department. ''It gives you a picture of the truly complex nature of what we are trying to do.'' 
 Though many of the ideas are familiar, and often supported by Chinese leaders in principle, the list reflects an increased effort to lecture China about internal financial issues. 
 That could backfire. Chinese leaders invariably bristle at pressure from American officials, and they could view the new American ''priorities'' as an unwelcome intrusion.
 The new tack comes as Treasury Secretary John W. Snow continues to show little progress on the volatile economic dispute with China over exchange rates.
 Republican and Democratic lawmakers in Congress have long complained that the yuan has been pegged at an artificially low value against the dollar, making Chinese exports to the United States cheaper than they would otherwise be.
 China announced a 2 percent revaluation in July, but have yet to follow with any additional changes. Based on signals from senior Chinese officials on Friday and Saturday, Mr. Snow is unlikely to return to Washington next week with any evidence of new progress.
 Mr. Snow has been arguing that China needs to get people to spend more and save less. Administration officials say that a financial overhaul would help make that happen.
 Many economists agree with that assessment, but they caution that there are limits to what the United States can do to speed up change.
 ''They are doing a smart thing, because the exchange rate is a small part of the overall economic relationship,'' said Andrew Rothman, a Shanghai-based strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific, a brokerage firm. But he added, ''This is not the kind of thing where someone flips a switch and it happens overnight.''
 Mr. Rothman said that China had already embraced many of the ideas that Mr. Snow was promoting and that consumer spending has grown sharply in the past few years.
 Retail sales in China have been climbing about 10 percent a year for the past several years, he said. Household credit, virtually nonexistent five years ago, now accounts for 16 percent of all outstanding credit.
 But many of the Bush administration's proposals would encounter fierce political opposition from many quarters.
 China's state-owned banks and far-flung rural credit cooperatives have many defenders in the ruling Communist party, and they are certain to oppose well-financed competition from Western banks. 
 Even without opposition from vested interests, many Chinese leaders are likely to fret over giving more freedom to foreign financial institutions to enter Chinese markets.
 Under current laws, foreign investors are usually prohibited from owning more than 25 percent of a commercial bank, and no single foreign investor can own more than 20 percent.
 According to a document that Treasury officials plan to circulate among Chinese leaders, the Bush administration would remove the limits on foreign ownership as well as a host of other restricitons.
 Foreign financial institutions that want to buy Chinese securities would be freed from having to have at least $10 billion in assets and to have been in business at least five years.
 Foreign-affiliated banks, brokerage firms and insurers would be freed from restrictions on setting up multiple branches at one time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); FUTURES (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); RETAIL SALES (50%) 

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush; John W (Sec) Snow

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



352 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: At Public Universities, Warnings of Privatization

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
Taxpayer support for public universities, measured per student, has plunged more precipitously since 2001 than at any time in two decades, and several university presidents are calling the decline a de facto privatization of the institutions that played a crucial role in the creation of the American middle class.
 Graham Spanier, president of Pennsylvania State University, said this year that skyrocketing tuition was a result of what he called ''public higher education's slow slide toward privatization.''
 Other educators have made similar assertions, some avoiding the term ''privatization'' but nonetheless describing a crisis that they say is transforming public universities. At an academic forum last month, John D. Wiley, chancellor of the University of Wisconsin-Madison, said that during the years after World War II, America built the world's greatest system of public higher education.
 ''We're now in the process of dismantling all that,'' Dr. Wiley said. 
 The share of all public universities' revenues deriving from state and local taxes declined to 64 percent in 2004 from 74 percent in 1991. At many flagship universities, the percentages are far smaller. About 25 percent of the University of Illinois's budget comes from the state. Michigan finances about 18 percent of Ann Arbor's revenues. The taxpayer share of revenues at the University of Virginia is about 8 percent.
 ''At those levels, we have to ask what it means to be a public institution,'' said Katharine C. Lyall, an economist and president emeritus of the University of Wisconsin. ''America is rapidly privatizing its public colleges and universities, whose mission used to be to serve the public good. But if private donors and corporations are providing much of a university's budget, then they will set the agenda, perhaps in ways the public likes and perhaps not. Public control is slipping away.''
 Not everyone agrees with the doomsday talk. Some experts who study university finance say the declines are only part of a familiar cycle in which legislatures cut the budgets of public universities more radically than other state agencies during recession but restore financing when good times return, said Paul E. Lingenfelter, president of State Higher Education Executive Officers, a nonprofit association.
 ''Let's not panic and say that the public commitment to higher education has fundamentally changed,'' Dr. Lingenfelter said. ''Let's just say that these cycles happen, and get back to work to restore the funding.''
 But the future of hundreds of universities and colleges has become a subject of anxious debate nationwide. At stake are institutions that carry out much of the country's public-interest research and educate nearly 80 percent of all college students, and whose scientific and technological innovation has been crucial to America's economic dominance.
 Margaret Spellings, secretary of education, noted her own worries in announcing the appointment of a national Commission on the Future of Higher Education last month.
 ''We still have the finest system of higher education in the world,'' Ms. Spellings said. ''But we're at a crossroads. The world is catching up.''
 The commission, whose first meeting is scheduled for Monday, will explore universities' affordability and competitiveness. Some members argue that universities, by failing to contain costs, share responsibility for the exploding price of a degree.
 The average in-state tuition nationwide for students attending four-year public colleges increased 36 percent from 2000-01 through 2004-05, according to the College Board, while consumer prices over all rose about 11 percent.
 The Morrill Act of 1862 granted federal land to states to finance the creation of public universities, and one of their core missions ever since has been to provide services that promote the well-being of communities and states. Today, educators using the term ''privatization'' say universities are being forced to abandon this social compact. In the process, many major public universities are looking more like private ones.
 For instance, the University of Virginia and other public universities in the state responded to years of dwindling financing by asking Virginia's General Assembly to extend their autonomy and to reaffirm the university governing boards' authority to raise tuition. Lawmakers granted those requests, said Colette Sheehy, a University of Virginia vice president.
 Two years ago, Miami University of Ohio became the first public institution to adopt the tuition model used by private colleges, eliminating the differential between in-state and out-of-state residents.
 Across the nation, educators said, public anger is rising not only about tuition but about the increasing numbers of faculty members who focus on research rather than on teaching undergraduates, and about the time that university presidents spend hobnobbing with billionaires. University administrators say all three phenomena are related to the transformation of revenues. 
 As private donations and federal grants make up a larger proportion of universities' revenue, more professors are paid mainly to conduct research. And as state financing drops, more building projects depend on private philanthropy.
 At the University of Wisconsin at Madison, Grainger Hall, which houses the business school, was financed largely by donations from David W. Grainger, chairman of W.W. Grainger Inc., the business-to-business distributor; from his wife; and from the Grainger Foundation. The school of pharmacy is in the new Rennebohm Hall, named after Oscar Rennebohm, whose drugstore chain amassed a fortune. The Rennebohm Foundation financed the building.
 ''Wisconsin people see all the construction on campus and don't understand why the university is complaining about budget cuts,'' Dr. Lyall said. ''We have this apparent incongruity of building growth at a time when resources for teaching in those buildings are shrinking.''
 But flagship universities are less vulnerable to financing declines than are hundreds of state-run four-year colleges that do not offer doctoral programs or conduct significant research, said David Ward, president of the American Council on Education, the nation's largest association of universities and colleges. The flagships can replace some state revenues with federal grants and private donations, but the four-year colleges cannot, he said.
 ''Privatization may be a good description of what is going on at our flagship campuses, but not at our four-years,'' Dr. Ward said. ''They cannot survive without public funding.''
 Patrick M. Callan, president of the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education, a nonprofit group, also said he dislikes the word.
 ''The air is filled with this rhetoric about privatization, but the evidence doesn't support it,'' Mr. Callan said. He noted that in straight dollar terms, state appropriations for public universities have not fallen much across the nation in recent years. They totaled $67 billion in 2001, $70 billion in 2002, $69 billion in 2003 and $69 billion in 2004, the last year for which nationwide data is available. 
 But because enrollments surged during those years by more than 1 million students, or 11.8 percent, per-student appropriations dropped more steeply than at any time since the early 1980's, to $5,721 from $6,874, according to the State Higher Education Executive Officers. 
 Another measure, the average percentage of state tax revenues devoted to public higher education, has declined for several decades. About 6.7 percent of state revenues went to higher education appropriations in 1977, but by 2000, universities' share had fallen to 4.5 percent, according to a study by the Urban Institute.
 Stanley O. Ikenberry, a president emeritus of the University of Illinois, says he believes that most state legislatures remain committed to supporting public higher education but that as budgets shrink, it is more difficult to cut programs like Medicaid, public schools and prisons.
 ''The higher education budget serves as the default place to make the cut,'' Dr. Ikenberry said. Nonetheless, he avoids the word ''privatization,'' saying, ''It's not a productive way to talk about what's happening now, but more a way of describing where we may be heading.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Paying for College''Since 2001, government support, measured per student, has plunged while tuition has increased faster than inflation. Below, educational revenues per student for public colleges and universities, adjusted for inflation in 2004 dollars.Graphs track tuition vs. state and local appropriations since 1991.(Source by State Higher Education Executive Officers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (97%); PRIVATIZATION (92%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (79%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); SCHOOL PRIVATIZATION (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (72%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); PHILANTHROPY (63%); WORLD WAR II (54%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition; Philanthropy; Research; Privatization; Finances; Teachers and School Employees; Wages and Salaries; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%)

PERSON: MARGARET SPELLINGS (58%) Sam Dillon

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



353 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: TOURISM; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Good Times Now Roll a Little Later

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
A drunken man draped with Mardi Gras beads lurched out of a French Quarter bar, his drink sloshing over the lip of his plastic cup. Couples linked arms or danced in the street as hip-hop music blared from clubs, and on each corner groups of police officers stood and watched.
 The clock was ticking on Bourbon Street.
On Saturday morning, rowdy drunks and gyrating dancers took the partying on New Orleans's most famous street past midnight for the first time since Hurricane Katrina hit, after the curfew was extended to 2 a.m. in the French Quarter. 
 ''It's better for business,'' said Clint Duncan, the manager of Razzoo Bar and Patio. ''The rest of the country is allowed to stay open. Why can't we?'' he said, shortly before several police officers ran into his club and led a man away in handcuffs after he was accused of pulling a knife on the bartender. 
 New Orleans is slowly trying to revive the moneymaking spirit that helped make tourism the city's largest industry and source of employment. Debris is being removed from the streets, buildings are being repaired, and bars are being sanitized to prepare to open. 
 Some Bourbon Street gift shops are still boarded up, and clubs and restaurants are waiting for health inspections or have been given limited licenses to operate. Help-wanted notices are taped to windows.
 ''Right now we are in recovery mode,'' said Kim Priez, the vice president for tourism of the New Orleans Metropolitan Convention and Visitors Bureau. ''We are not ready for tourism yet. We still have several weeks to go.''
 Compared with other parts of the city, the French Quarter was relatively unscathed by the hurricane. For that reason, and because it is the city's main attraction, it is probably the best place to gauge the resurrection of an economic sector that last year attracted more than 10 million visitors who accounted for about $5.5 billion in revenue, Ms. Priez said. 
 ''I think the curfew is hurting the business for the late-night facilities,'' she said. ''I do not see any harm in lifting it.''
 From City Hall, Mayor C. Ray Nagin said the curfew extension was meant to ''accommodate business while also ensuring public safety'' as the city rebuilds.
 Before the hurricane, many of the bars and dance clubs stayed open until well past midnight. Even with the curfew extension, many close early to allow staff to get home before 2 a.m.
 Bar owners said they wanted the curfew dropped completely, and some had threatened to defy it. Art Irons, the manager at the Famous Door nightclub, said that after midnight about 250 more people came in Saturday morning. ''They ought to lighten it up in the French Quarter,'' he said, shouting to be heard over the band.
 The curfew has also been extended in some other areas, but the worst-hit areas of the city are still under a curfew from 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. 
 A Louisiana State Police officer, Sgt. Jason Starnes, said he had no estimate for the crowds on Bourbon Street, though the streets were not packed after midnight. ''A lot of the places are closed,'' he said, adding that perhaps people didn't know the curfew had been extended.
 The city's traditional visitors have been individual tourists, groups, businesspeople and convention attendees. Now there are mostly relief workers, law enforcement officers, Coast Guard and FEMA officials, members of the National Guard, reconstruction companies and insurance assessors. Some business owners say they spend less than the tourists.
 Ms. Priez is working on a long-term plan to bring back the mainstay clientele.
 The visitors bureau has contacted more than 350 tour operators by telephone and 52,000 travel agents by e-mail to update them on progress in the city. Ms. Priez estimated that groups would start returning in mid-December for the Christmas holidays and that the number of visitors would be back on track by the beginning of the new year.
 Many hotels are open and full, even taking reservations from people who could not find vacancies in Baton Rouge, about 70 miles away. The Hotel InterContinental New Orleans is opening on Monday, and the Royal Sonesta Hotel has booked a Nov. 12 wedding. 
 Kalila K. Smith, an owner of Haunted History Tours, is considering a midnight tour of the French Quarter's spooky sites, now that the curfew has been extended.
 But there has also been a subtle shift in mood. October is the start of the crucial business season after slow summer months, but some business owners have decided to bow out because of uncertainty, said Rick Sutton, a partner in Galerie d'Art Francais on Royal Street.
 ''I know five people on this block who are not coming back,'' Mr. Sutton said. ''They are either retiring or moving to other cities and opening because they do not know how long it will take to recoup their losses.''
 Local residents are trying to resume their lives and, in some cases, locate friends and family. Some are finding that they are coping with fresh memories of the destruction while dealing with out-of-town visitors bent on revelry.
 ''I think because of the stress, people are different,'' said Paula Johansen, who has lived in New Orleans all her life and runs the Bourbon Street shop called Crawdaddy and Co.
 ''It is going to get a little touchy,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Geoff Manis, an aid worker, stayed out late on Bourbon Street after the curfew was relaxed this weekend. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); CURFEW (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (86%); RESTAURANTS (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); WEATHER (75%); TOURISM (73%); DANCERS (72%); RAP MUSIC (72%); CITIES (72%); RESTAURANT INSPECTION & LICENSING (70%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (67%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (67%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Hurricane Katrina; Floods; Curfews; Bats; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Christine Hauser

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



354 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE VOTING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2044 words

HEADLINE: IRAQIS CAST VOTES ON CONSTITUTION TO SHAPE FUTURE 

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS and JOHN F. BURNS; Kirk Semple contributed reporting from Baquba for this article, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Najaf and Karbala.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
Millions of Iraqis streamed to the polls Saturday to vote on a new constitution, joined by what appeared to be strong turnouts of Sunni voters in some parts of the country. 
 But the Sunni turnout -- high in some cities like Mosul, low in others like Ramadi -- appeared to be insufficient to defeat the new charter, and Iraqi officials predicted that it would pass.
Turnout appeared to be highest in Shiite and Kurdish areas, although in many places, including Baghdad, it seemed not to approach the levels seen in January, when throngs of voters stood in long lines to cast their ballots for an interim government. Both Shiites and Kurds were expected to vote overwhelmingly in favor of the constitution.
 The day unfolded relatively calmly, with only scattered attacks on polling sites and troops around the country. Most vehicular traffic was banned, and hundreds of thousands of Iraqi and American troops and police officers were out in force. 
 Iraqi elections officials said final voting results would probably not be ready until the middle of the week.
 The proposed constitution gives the Iraqi state a strong Islamic cast and provides broad guarantees for individual rights. It grants the Kurds broad autonomy in northern Iraq, and is expected to usher in a Shiite-dominated government after elections in December. 
 Both prospects -- Kurdish autonomy and Shiite ascendancy -- are viscerally opposed by many Sunnis. The Sunnis, believed to comprise no more than 20 percent of Iraq's population, enjoyed a privileged status in Iraq from its birth in 1920 until the fall of Saddam Hussein's government in 2003. The charter will fail if two-thirds of the voters in any three Iraqi provinces reject it. 
 The mood on the streets of many Iraqi cities, even in Shiite areas, appeared markedly less enthusiastic than on Jan. 30, when millions of Iraqis braved an onslaught of violence to cast ballots and celebrate in a vast outpouring of pro-democratic sentiment.
 On Saturday in Baghdad, streets were noticeably bare of pedestrians, polling centers were less busy, and voters exhibited little enthusiasm.
 ''I sense that the turnout will be lower this time,'' said Zainab Kudir, the chief poll worker at the Marjayoun Primary School in a predominantly Shiite neighborhood in Baghdad. ''People feel their needs have not been met. There is no security. There are no jobs.''
 But as in the January elections that brought Iraqis the first fully elected government in the country's history, many who arrived at the polling centers paused to catch the sense of history on a day when they were given, with a vote on the new constitution, a voice in shaping the kind of country Iraq will become. 
 Some drew comparisons with the last time Iraqis were asked to vote in a referendum, Oct. 15, 2002, exactly three years ago, when Mr. Hussein, under pressure from the United States before the invasion that came five months later, awarded himself a new seven-year term in a ballot in which he was the only candidate. The next day, his aides announced he had won 100 percent of the 11.4 million votes.
 ''Before, there was no constitution, there was only Saddam,'' said Minascan Watanyan, an 82-year-old man who turned out to vote Saturday in Baghdad and who said his son was tortured to death under Mr. Hussein's government. 
 In Iraq's predominantly Shiite areas, many voters were drawn to the polls by an endorsement of the constitution from Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the powerful Shiite religious leader. 
 The constitution, and the elections set for December, are seen by Shiites across the country as the keys to enshrining their dominance after decades of living as a repressed majority.
 ''Sistani's endorsement helped, but the decision was mine; it came from inside me,'' said Hassan Muhammad, a 37-year-old laborer in Baghdad whose two brothers were executed during the Hussein years. ''The best thing about this constitution is that it allows federalism, and that will prevent a concentration of power at the center, another dictatorship.''
 In Baghdad's Sunni neighborhoods, those who did cast ballots said overwhelmingly that they would vote against the constitution.
 The Sunni voters who did so expressed little nostalgia for Mr. Hussein's government, but pointed instead to the violence and economic privations that have engulfed the country.
 ''I have no power, I have had no water for three days, I live in the harshest conditions I have ever known,'' said Abdul Hamid Ghaffouri, a Sunni clothing salesman, who voted. ''Can you tell me any reason I should vote yes?'' 
 In Washington, a White House spokesman said: ''The president is pleased to hear that Iraqis turned out in large numbers to freely express their views on this historic day. It appears that the level of violence was well below the last election. Today's vote deals a severe blow to the ambitions of the terrorists and sends a clear message to the world that the people of Iraq will decide the future of their country through peaceful elections, not violent insurgency.''
 The exact extent of turnout was unclear. Based on scattered reports around the country, voting in Sunni areas appeared higher than in January but somewhat lower in Shiite and Kurdish areas. 
 Few polling centers in Baghdad had the long lines of voters seen in January. In Erbil, in the north, Kurdish officials reported lower turnouts. In Karbala, a holy Shiite city, turnout at some precincts appeared to hover around 50 percent, which, if true for the province as a whole, would be down from January. 
 More Sunnis appeared to have cast ballots Saturday than did in January, when Sunnis largely boycotted the voting. Steady streams of voters were seen in the Sunni-dominated cities of Falluja and Mosul and in Sunni areas of Diyala Province. 
 But some Sunni cities reported virtually no turnout whatsoever. Many of the Sunnis who did cast ballots said they voted against the charter, which many Sunnis fear will enshrine Shiite rule for years to come and which they fear could help spur the ultimate breakup of the country.
 In Ramadi, the embattled capital of Anbar Province, polling stations stood largely empty. ''Maku, maku!'' shouted poll workers at one site, using the Arabic word for nothing. They pointed to a large auditorium, where plastic ballot boxes stood empty on the floor in front of a stage. 
 There was higher Sunni turnout in Mosul, which has been a stronghold of the insurgency; Falluja, where American troops have maintained a heavy presence; and Baquba, a mixed Sunni-Shiite city northeast of Baghdad where the insurgency has been less virulent. 
 In Mosul, people lined up outside polling centers in the Arab section of the city and said that they felt much more secure than they did in January. 
 Hopes that the Sunnis would turn out in greater numbers than in January rose this week, after Iraqi leaders struck a deal with Iraq's largest Sunni political party. But most other Sunni groups, including influential clerics, refused to sign on, sticking to their insistence that no accommodation was possible until American forces set a timetable for a withdrawal.
 The guerrilla insurgency is strongest in Sunni areas like Anbar Province, and one of the primary goals of the voting has been to marginalize the insurgency by drawing Sunnis into the political process.
 Iraqi and American officials were hoping that greater Sunni participation would push overall turnout past the 58 percent mark reached in the January elections. 
 In Erbil, officials speculated that the turnout appeared lower because voters there had grown complacent that the constitution would pass.
 There were pockets where turnout appeared quite heavy. At one precinct in Sadr City, the giant slum area where as many as half of Baghdad's five million people live, 1,750 of the 2,400 registered voters cast ballots by late afternoon, a turnout of 73 percent.
 At Al Afak Elementary School in the predominantly Sunni neighborhood of Mufrek in Baquba, more than 1,000 people voted in the first four hours. By late morning, the lines were backed up into the school's inner courtyard. 
 Voting centers were also set up in the American-run prisons at Abu Ghraib and Camp Bucca for some 13,000 detainees, many of them suspected insurgents. There was even a polling station at Camp Cropper, where Mr. Hussein is incarcerated. There was no word on whether he had cast a ballot.
 In the days leading up to the vote, Iraqi and American officials said their principal fear was that a wave of violence in Kurdish and Shiite areas could drive down the ''yes'' votes enough to defeat the constitution.
 But the violence was held mostly in check. About a half-dozen polling centers came under attack; one of them was in the predominately Sunni town of Abu Ghraib, west of Baghdad, where insurgents attacked a polling center and stole a ballot box. That raised fears that the insurgents could single out the Iraqis who had voted.
 Of 6,100 polling stations across the country, about 128 did not open, mostly for security reasons. A roadside bomb struck an Iraqi Army patrol in Saadiya, north of Baghdad, killing three soldiers.
 On Jan. 30, when more than eight million Iraqis went to the polls to choose the Shiite-led transitional government that led the drafting of the constitution, American military commanders reported nearly 350 insurgent attacks, including numerous suicide bombings, the highest level of violence for any day of the war. On that occasion, American troops were highly visible on Baghdad's streets. 
 On Saturday, the 150,000-member American force was much less evident, with perimeter security at the polling centers left mostly to the fast-growing Iraqi security forces.
 In many areas, the only sign of the American military occupation came from low-flying Apache attack helicopters circling over known areas of insurgent strength, and occasional patrols by armored Humvees, with turret gunners scanning the streets. 
 Maj. Muhammad Faris Ali, a military intelligence officer responsible for a wide area of northwestern Baghdad, attributed the relative calm to the Iraqi army's takeover of duties that were still assigned to Americans in January. ''We are Iraqis, and we know our people,'' he said. ''The Americans have a good army, but they don't know Iraqis as we know them, and that makes for much better security.''
 Some Iraqis drew contrasts with the election three years ago to the day for Mr. Hussein. ''I voted then, for Saddam, of course, because I was afraid,'' said Jabar Ahmed Ismail, 75, living on a $100-a-month pension from a lifetime as an oil pipeline repairman. ''But this time, I came here by my own choice. I am not afraid anymore. I am a free man.''
 A Sunni, Mr. Ismail said he had voted for the constitution, despite appeals by many Sunni leaders for it to be rejected, and threats from Islamic militants to kill anybody participating in it. He said he did not really know what was in the constitution, but the fact that his opinion had been sought was enough for him to back it. ''It gives me hope in God, and in my fellow men,'' he said. As for the insurgents, he said, they were ''infidels,'' and added, ''I don't accept them.'' 
 ''I don't know what they want.''

TV Coverage Outside Iraq
(By The New York Times) CAIRO, Oct. 15 -- While Muslims across the Arab world focused on family and fasting during the holy month of Ramadan, most local news channels devoted only modest attention to Iraq. But the two premier regional satellite news channels, Al Jazeera and Al Arabiya, focused on the vote, with Al Jazeera noting that while the day seemed to go well with ''a continuous influx of Iraqis to the polling stations,'' the future was uncertain.
 ''Will this help unite the country or will it hasten the division of Iraq into different ethnicities?'' said a broadcaster on Al Jazeera.
 Both satellite channels reported concern that the new constitution, and the new Iraq, would have less of an Arab identity.

 (Graph tracks voter turnout in january election)

Ethnic Areas
Predominant groups are distributed in north, central and southern Iraq.
Graph tracks ethnic distribution

(Sources by Independent Electoral Commission of Iraq; Iraqi Planning Ministry; news agency reports)(pg. 8)

CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A credit in some copies yesterday for a picture of Iraqi women voting in the constitutional referendum misstated the affiliation of the photographer, Johan Spanner. It is Polaris.

GRAPHIC: Photos: CONTRAST AT THE POLLS -- Iraqis waited yesterday to vote in the northern city of Mosul. But at a polling center in the Sunni city of Ramadi, below, only poll workers and soldiers stationed there had voted by the day's end. (Photo by Above, Mujahed Mohammed/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images
below, Scott Nelson/World Picture News, for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Workers at a Baghdad polling station used emergency lights late yesterday afternoon, after parts of the city lost electric power. (Photo by Johan Spanner/World Picture News, for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart/Map: ''Voting Around Iraq''The vote on Iraq's constitution took place yesterday with relatively little unrest, in contrast to the January elections.Maps of Iraq show the following:Eligible VotersYesterday's referendum may turn on which areas voted most heavily.(Graph tracks eligible voters in each province)New Registrations1.2 million people have registered to vote since January.(Graph tracks percentage increase in eligible voters since January)January ElectionVoter turnout was highest in Chit and Kurdish parts of Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); POPULATION SIZE (79%); REFERENDUMS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); RELIGION (73%); HISTORY (60%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (50%) 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Dexter Filkins; John F Burns; Ali Al- (Grand Ayatollah) Sistani

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (92%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



355 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Aid Program For Recipients Of Medicare Comes to End 

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
About 192,000 Medicare beneficiaries with low incomes face a steep increase in costs because Congress has not renewed a program that paid their monthly premiums, the Bush administration said on Saturday.
 ''These are highly vulnerable beneficiaries,'' the administration said in an e-mail notice sent to Congress on Friday night. The notice said that legal authority for the program expired at the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. So the low-income beneficiaries, who are 65 and older or disabled, will have to pay the premiums that until now were paid for them by the federal government. 
The basic Medicare premium, $78.20 a month, will rise to $88.50 in January. Premiums are normally deducted from Social Security checks.
 ''The administration has no authority to reinstate the program,'' the notice said. ''Congress must act. The president's 2006 budget proposed a one-year extension of the program. Without a reinstatement of the program, these 192,000 beneficiaries will be individually responsible for the payment of their Medicare Part B premiums.''
 Under the program, the federal government can pay premiums for Medicare beneficiaries with incomes of $1,097 to $1,464 a month. That amounts to $13,164 to $17,568 annually. Beneficiaries are known as ''qualifying individuals,'' and the program is often called the Q.I. program.
 The administration said, ''States are responsible for notifying beneficiaries that the Q.I. benefit has been terminated.''
 The House and the Senate have passed separate bills to reinstate the program. The cost, roughly $200 million a year, would be offset by denying federal payments under Medicaid and Medicare for Viagra and other drugs for erectile dysfunction. 
 Congress left Oct. 7 for a 10-day recess without resolving differences on this and other issues. The two houses disagree over parts of the legislation dealing with welfare benefits, unemployment insurance and programs to promote sexual abstinence.
 Kevin W. Concannon, director of the Iowa Department of Human Services, said: ''Congress just walked away and left a lot of poor people hanging. It's frustrating and disheartening. We hope Congress will extend the program, but there is no guarantee.''
 The federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services told Congress that it had ''received requests for information on how to begin terminating beneficiaries from the program from states such as Florida, Nevada and New York.''
 Howard J. Bedlin, vice president of the National Council on the Aging, a research and advocacy group, said: ''It's hard to believe that Congress would cut off vulnerable seniors from the help they need at such a critical time. Medicare premiums have increased more than 50 percent in three years. Do we really want to have thousands of seniors no longer able to afford to see their doctors?''
 Gary R. Karr, a spokesman for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said, ''We want Congress to renew the program.''
 If Congress does nothing, the agency told Congress, beneficiaries will have to pay Medicare premiums for October and subsequent months. Several months' premiums could be deducted at once from a person's Social Security check.
 The agency said that if the Social Security Administration receives a list of names in November, ''the beneficiary will see his or her December check reduced by $234.60'' -- the amount for October, November and December at $78.20 a month.
 Congress is scheduled to reconvene on Monday. Proposals to reduce the federal budget deficit are high on the agenda. Republican leaders say they will work with the White House to cut $35 billion from projected spending on Medicaid and other benefit programs over five years.
 But Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is chairman of the Finance Committee, said he would try to preserve aid for low-income Medicare beneficiaries because the program had ''proved its value in helping those who live on the edge of poverty.''
 ''Congress needs to act quickly to make sure this important benefit is not lost,'' Mr. Grassley said.
 Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, has introduced a bill that would permanently authorize aid for low-income people on Medicare. ''Congress should not be playing political hot potato with this issue every year,'' Mr. Bingaman said. 
 The Bush administration said the uncertainty about aid for low-income people could have ''a significant impact on the Medicare prescription drug benefit'' that becomes available on Jan. 1. People receiving such aid are deemed eligible for extra help with their drug costs.
 But if the program no longer exists, the administration said, it will be ''much harder to motivate these individuals'' to sign up for drug plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (86%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (69%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); ELDER HEALTH (63%); MEDICAID (58%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Law and Legislation; Health Insrance and Managed Care; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sex; Impotence

PERSON: Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



356 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Thousands Attend Rally in Washington, Seeking Greater Power for African-Americans

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and HOLLI CHMELA

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
Thousands of African-Americans thronged the Mall on Saturday and demanded action to overcome poverty, injustice, joblessness and the effects of substandard schools in black communities.
 Speakers, led by Louis Farrakhan, leader of the Nation of Islam, embraced an agenda of self-help, celebrated the 10th anniversary of the Million Man March on Washington, demanded reparations for the descendants of black slaves and floated the idea of a new political party to increase the power of blacks and other minority groups.
Mr. Farrakhan urged the crowd to mobilize support for progressive social policies. 
 ''The government will never do for the poor of this nation until and unless we organize effectively to make government respond to the needs of the poor,'' Mr. Farrakhan said in an 80-minute speech delivered from the west front of the United States Capitol. ''We must go back home and organize as never before.''
 Mr. Farrakhan said the delayed relief for victims of Hurricane Katrina showed that poor people and blacks could not depend on the federal government.
 ''For five days,'' he said, ''the government did not act. Lives were lost. We charge America with criminal neglect.''
 But Mr. Farrakhan's criticism of America and its leaders went much deeper.
 ''We want more than an apology for slavery,'' he said. ''We want more than a monument. We want America to acknowledge her wickedness to the indigenous people of this hemisphere; acknowledge the wickedness of slavery and the trans-Atlantic slave trade; acknowledge what you did in robbing our fathers of their names, their language, their culture, their religion.''
 Mr. Farrakhan denounced the domestic, economic and foreign policies of the Bush administration. ''We need regime change in the United States,'' he said. 
 He accused President Bush of lying to the American people and ''raping the Treasury'' to pay for the war in Iraq, and he said the president had been deluded by ''the neoconservative idea of an imperialist America.''
 But he caustically criticized Democrats as well.
 ''We need to think about a new political party,'' Mr. Farrakhan said. ''The Democrats have used us and abused us. They look at the black and the brown and the poor like this is a plantation, and our Democratic leaders are like the house Negro on the plantation of Democratic politics.''
 Cries of ''black power'' echoed over the Mall as people congregated there on a balmy autumn day. 
 Some in the crowd said they were members of the Nation of Islam, but others said they simply supported Mr. Farrakhan's goals. In parts of the crowd, the atmosphere was like that of a family picnic, with people of all ages sitting on blankets.
 Mr. Farrakhan calls his campaign to help the poor and the powerless the Millions More Movement.
 With scant hope of help from white America, Mr. Farrakhan said, blacks must help themselves by establishing their own ministries of health and human services, agriculture, education, defense, justice, art and culture, trade and commerce, information and science and technology.
 His message resonated with the crowd. Troy Harris, 34, a film student from Chico, Calif., said he was encouraged by the speeches.
 ''Minister Farrakhan has some wise words,'' Mr. Harris said. ''It is time for us to build up our own services. It is time to organize our own processes. Because what's there hasn't worked.''
 Kyra Jones, 25, a special education teacher from Maryland, said she especially liked Mr. Farrakhan's message about establishing ministries to serve the community.
 ''Imagine if we had ministries during the hurricane and we didn't have to rely on the government,'' Ms. Jones said.
 Peter Sengali, 44, of Chicago attended the march 10 years ago and brought his wife and two children to the event on Saturday.
 ''I wanted to show my children, my son especially, that black people, particularly men, can get together without violence,'' Mr. Sengali said. ''I hope that they can take this message and bring it back to our community.''
 Mr. Farrakhan said his organization was forming a disaster relief fund, and he urged people to contribute one dollar a week.
 In a wide-ranging speech, he combined fund-raising appeals with overtures to Africa, denunciations of pharmaceutical companies, criticism of the nation's schools and a harsh evaluation of wealthy whites, who he said were trying to preserve their privileged position in American society.
 Other speakers included civil rights leaders, Hispanics, poor people, politicians, clergymen, professors, hip-hop musicians and American Indians. 
 The crowd also watched video presentations by Ricardo Alarcon, president of the Cuban National Assembly, and Prime Minister P.J. Patterson of Jamaica.
 Mr. Alarcon observed ''a lot of misery and suffering'' in the United States. Mr. Patterson said, ''We stand in solidarity with the survivors of Katrina.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Luther Muhammad, center, traveled to Washington from Sacramento, Calif., to join others from the Nation of Islam at the gathering yesterday. (Photo by David Y. Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SLAVERY (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); MEN (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); HURRICANES (67%); HURRICANE KATRINA (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TROPICAL STORMS (53%) Blacks; Demonstrations and Riots; United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment; Blacks; Education and Schools; Equal Educational Opportunities; Discrimination

ORGANIZATION: NATION OF ISLAM (93%) Nation of Islam

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Robert Pear; Holli Chmela; Louis Farrakhan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (79%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



357 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; THE VOTERS: Maspeth, Queens; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1696 words

HEADLINE: In Enclave, Biggest Vote Is in Favor Of Status Quo

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
In Maspeth, a Queens neighborhood five miles east of and what seems like a time zone apart from Manhattan, women of a certain age still walk on the main shopping street, Grand Avenue, wearing gingham house dresses. There are benches on the sidewalks. People sit on them.
 If you happened to be in one of the local drugstores on a recent afternoon, you would have heard a man in a sleeveless shirt ask the pharmacist for advice about his sore arm.
''Try an aspirin a day, no more than that,'' the pharmacist told him. ''And a hot water bottle.'' Time and tide may wait for no man, but in Maspeth they seem at least to be thinking about it. 
 The defining public events in Maspeth in the last several years, in fact, have been efforts to keep things from changing. People fought to keep out a Home Depot, to keep out a rail freight terminal, to block a homeless shelter, to stop truck traffic from the Long Island Expressway from spilling into Maspeth's streets and to stop developers from tearing down the community's typical one-and-two family homes to build three and four-family ones.
 For a small pie wedge of the city, just beyond the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, that would seem like a lot of territorial defense.
 It is a place so used to fighting its own battles that the Nov. 8 mayoral election sometimes seems irrelevant.
 ''A man got killed by a truck right over there,'' said Paul Lawrence, 69, when asked about the election campaign. What did the candidates have to say about that, he wanted to know, and about the way tractor-trailers use Maspeth's streets as a shortcut to avoid the Kosciuszko Bridge?
 His friend, Joseph James Romano, said, ''We've got too many restaurants and not enough stores.'' What were the candidates doing about the high rents behind the disappearance of the local hardware store, he wanted to know?
 People who are stopped on the street and asked about their concerns and the election will talk for whole minutes without ever mentioning Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a Republican; his Democratic challenger, Fernando Ferrer; or even Thomas V. Ognibene, the Conservative Party candidate who represented Maspeth in the City Council for many years and who is from Middle Village, a neighboring community.
 It is as if the gauzy rhetoric of a mayoral race just somehow doesn't say much about the rise in rent and the cost of gas and the terrible things on television nowadays. ''I haven't made up my mind yet,'' said Norma Griffenkranz, 68, a retired hospital cook who sat at a table with three old friends at the Maspeth Senior Center recently, discussing all of the above, and her indecision about the election.
 Mr. Ferrer seemed nice, and her union, the health care workers, supported him; but she didn't know what it was about him that just didn't click with her, she said.
 When pressed, most of about two dozen people interviewed recently in Maspeth -- a place that generally looks favorably on things as they are -- said they would probably vote to keep Mayor Bloomberg in office.
 ''He seems to be holding his own,'' said Angelo Buccheri, a contractor who was interviewed outside a C-Town supermarket.
 Patricia Schaefer, an unemployed office worker, said the mayor was ''pretty good, and you can't blame him for the gas prices -- that's the president's fault.'' 
 In a community plentiful in homeowners, blue-collar workers, the elderly and immigrants, people seem to worry a lot about the rising cost of living. They often refer to the 18 percent property tax increase ushered in by Mayor Bloomberg.
 But at least among homeowners, any resentment toward him seems tempered by a steady rise in property values. Most single-family homes are now selling for about $450,000, and two-family homes for $600,000 and more, according to local real estate agents.
 ''I moved here 15 years ago because it was cheap,'' said Manuel Quijano, a retired parking-garage attendant who owns a two-family house and rents one floor to his brother. Yes, the tax increase hurt, he said, ''but I have no complaints. The city is getting better. I support this mayor.''
 Mr. Buccheri, the contractor, said, ''I just don't know how the kids are going to afford to buy a house here.''
 More so than in many other neighborhoods of New York, people live in Maspeth because they grew up there, and have family ties there, and because they seem to like the idea of a neighborhood that has maintained its integrity despite being cut in half by the Long Island Expressway, which plowed through the center of town in the mid-1950's.
 They did not get on that highway to the suburbs, did not pick up and move south with much of the western Queens industrial base that once supported the community.
 ''We're here, and we intend to stay here,'' said Robert Holden, a third-generation Maspeth resident and president of the Juniper Park Civic Association, the most active of several local groups. ''This is the last of the small towns of New York.''
 The fact that no subway line was ever extended to Maspeth is generally viewed as a blessing. There is a certain aloof pride in the two-fare zone status of the place. And as a result of its having been passed over by the major transportation improvements of the midsection of the last century, people say the community looks pretty much the way it did at the end of World War II. 
 There is the same main shopping street, Grand Avenue, the same rows of houses on 20-foot-wide lots, the same sense of shared community with the dead: Maspeth is bordered on two sides by three large cemeteries, established in the 1800's and early 1900's, an easy carriage ride out of Manhattan.
 Mainly, though, the community's integrity seems to have been ensured, local leaders say, by a web of interlocking local institutions: the churches; the Knights of Columbus and Kiwanis and Moose; a wealth of local weekly newspapers; and, perhaps most crucial of all, the civic associations.
 Among civic leaders like Mr. Holden and Tony Nunziato, a florist and president of the community center known as Maspeth Town Hall, the mayoral election is far less about traditional New York City politics than it is about the local struggle to let Maspeth be Maspeth.
 ''The day of party politics is over,'' Mr. Nunziato said. ''We care about preserving a good place to live.''
 Mr. Nunziato, a registered Republican, and Mr. Holden, a registered Democrat, both support Mr. Bloomberg and make no bones about the fact that it is for one simple reason: he helped their side in two battles in the past year against opponents bigger and stronger than Maspeth.
 Last November, after attending a meeting packed with hundreds of Maspeth residents opposed to plans for a Home Depot in the neighborhood, Mr. Bloomberg helped persuade the owner of the proposed site, the utility company KeySpan, to donate the property to the city. There are now plans for a park.
 More recently, Mr. Bloomberg announced his opposition to the Port Authority's so-called cross-harbor tunnel project, which would have placed a rail and truck terminal in the old industrial section of Maspeth, where residents said the terminal would have brought more trucks to their already clogged streets.
 In both cases, opponents of the projects marshaled hundreds of local residents to come to raucous meetings. In the fight against Home Depot, there were street demonstrations and a general rallying 'round on behalf of local shopping.
 Most people in Maspeth can still walk to the store, and they want to keep it that way, Mr. Holden said.
 If most of Maspeth seems well organized and vocal, the one significant group that is not-- or that seems further removed from the politics of the city than everyone else -- is the immigrants.
 They are from Ireland and Poland, mainly. At the Church of the Holy Cross on 56th Road, there are seven Masses on Sundays -- three in English and four in Polish, according to the Rev. Peter Zendzian. ''A lot of these are very hard-working people, two and three jobs,'' Father Zendzian said. Many struggle to keep up with rising costs for health insurance, utility bills, gasoline, rent and taxes. 
 Father Zendzian attributed the declining enrollment and ultimate closing last year of the Holy Cross grammar school, where 175 children were enrolled, to the pressure of those rising costs. ''Tuition was $3,100. People just couldn't afford it anymore,'' he said.
 Among that group, it is hard to know how many are registered to vote. In interviews, about 3 in every 10 people stopped in Maspeth said they were Polish- or Irish-born. 
 ''I used to work in this bar,'' said Violet Callaghan, an immigrant from Ireland who has lived in Maspeth for 22 years, waving a hand at a scattering of patrons inside Duffy's Bar, on Grand Avenue, on a Friday afternoon. ''There used to be 60 or 70 people here after work, but now look at it -- it's almost empty. I blame Bloomberg. The cost of everything has gone up under him.'' She said she would vote for Mr. Ferrer.
 Glenn Hagen, a city sanitation worker, leaned in from his place at the next bar stool to add: ''Bloomberg took away the right of people to smoke in a bar. That's why there's nobody here.''
 The community has its Republican and Democratic traditions -- it has gone both ways in various elections over the years -- but most of all Maspeth has its peculiar tradition of what you might call its enclaveness. 
 It is a community that seems to know what it is about, that accepts its working-class status, its aging housing and cracked sidewalks, its little Polish grocery stores, the incessant noise from the Long Island Expressway and the strange arrangements of its numbered streets. In one small grid, for example, there is a 60th Street, a 60th Road, a 60th Avenue, a 60th Place and a 60th Drive, all lying across one another like kid brothers sprawled in a family bed.
 Ask anyone in Maspeth how people from the outside world are expected to find their way to a house at the corner of 60th Avenue and 60th Lane.
 ''It's a little confusing, I know,'' said Joe McWeeney of 60th Place, shrugging. ''But it's always been like that.''
 And if it's always been like that, it's usually O.K. with people in Maspeth.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tony Nunziato, at right, president of Maspeth Town Hall, said he would vote for Michael R. Bloomberg, because he had helped Maspeth fend off unwanted projects. Such battles are covered by numerous community newspapers, including The Queens Ledger, published by Walter Sanchez. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. 40) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PHARMACISTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); ELECTIONS (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); HOME CENTERS (73%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (68%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (67%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); HARDWARE STORES (62%); RESTAURANTS (62%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (53%); RAIL FREIGHT (53%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (53%); HOMELESSNESS (53%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Paul Vitello

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Maspeth (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



358 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Luxury Jewelry, With Monkeys Optional

BYLINE: By Louise Kramer. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
EMBOLDENED after ending a short marriage, Rose Wishner, 52, decided to treat herself to a ring to celebrate her starting over. 
 Forget wandering the aisles of Tiffany & Company or visiting the trendy boutiques on the Lower East Side. Ms. Wishner, a resident of Morristown, N.J., who used to work in swimwear manufacturing, wanted a ring that nobody else could buy. So on a recent afternoon, she took the train to Manhattan and headed straight to Jenny Lessard, who created her $10,000 engagement ring in 1999. 
In a fourth-floor studio on Madison Avenue, Ms. Lessard, the assistant director of design and new business development for Julius Cohen Jeweler, sketched while Ms. Wishner described her fantasy ring. Within 45 minutes, Ms. Lessard had a rough design featuring tiny leaves, vines and a couple of minuscule monkeys. The finished product will also use Ms. Wishner's engagement diamond. 
 ''I like the idea of having it be one of a kind,'' said Ms. Wishner, an avid gardener whose mother loves monkeys. Julius Cohen Jeweler has been quietly turning out custom-made necklaces, rings and brooches for private clients for 50 years. With strong consumer demand for luxury goods returning after a few tough years, profits reached record levels for Julius Cohen last year and are close to those highs so far this year, said Leslie Steinweiss, a principal in the family-owned business. Mr. Steinweiss is the son-in-law of the company's founder, who died in 1995. 
 The strong sales come as consumers with deep pockets show that they are willing to pay a premium for exclusivity and personalized service, marketing experts said. ''For people who can pay a lot, they want to feel even more special,'' said Geeta Menon, professor of marketing at the Leonard N. Stern School of Business at New York University. ''Customizing adds to the mystique of the whole product.''
 Statistics about growth in high-end jewelry manufacturing in New York, are hard to come by. The 600 retail and 1,700 wholesale companies that cram the city's diamond district on West 47th Street are famously tight-lipped because of security concerns and stiff competition. 
 Unlike other manufacturing sectors , like printing and clothing, which have cut back on thousands of local jobs, high-end jewelry manufacturing has remained strong, said Terrence Clark, executive director of the 47th Street Business Improvement District. Martin Hochbaum, managing director of the Diamond Dealers Club, a New York trade group, said that United States diamond sales rose last year by a few percentage points to $30 billion, and were strong this year. 
 Luxury jewelry retailers are scrambling to take advantage of strong demand. Last December, Jacob Arabo, known as Jacob the Jeweler, opened his first retail store, Jacob & Company, on East 57th Street. In June, DeBeers, the world's largest diamond supplier, opened its first New York store, near Tiffany's flagship on Fifth Avenue. 
 With 10 employees and no storefront, Julius Cohen is a tiny enterprise compared with these big new players. But that is not stopping the company from mapping its own growth strategy. 
 It recently invested in a $25,000 laser machine for precise welding. Instead of opening a street-level shop to lure customers, the company is trying to bring more clients to its cozy wood-paneled studio.
 Ms. Lessard, who has been designing jewelry since she dropped out of high school at age 16, joined the company a year ago after running her own business for 20 years. She is bringing in new business, like Ms. Wishner's order, and is using her design and manufacturing skills to help increase production, which is handled on site. 
 Soon, Ms. Lessard, 42, a great-granddaughter of the architect Stanford White, will be arranging private get-togethers to show off the company's work. 
 If interest among students at N.Y.U.'s Stern School is an indication, a new crop of luxury merchants is in the making. Professor Menon said students petitioned her this year to introduce a course on the topic, which begins in January. Students are flocking to a new extracurricular club that focuses on issues about luxury retailing. 
 One customer worked with Mr. Steinweiss of Julius Cohen recently to create a miniature carousel encrusted with gems. Items like this typically cost $100,000 to $500,000, depending on the stones, and can go even higher. 
 ''People want this special type of work now more than ever,'' Mr. Steinweiss said.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 18, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Sunday with the Home Front column, about the luxury jewelry market in New York, reversed the identifications of two employees of Julius Cohen Jeweler. Christine Huber was sketching ideas for a custom-made ring, and Jenny Lessard was at the left.

GRAPHIC: Photo: THE DRAWING BOARD -- Jenny Lessard sketched ideas for a custom-made ring at Julius Cohen Jeweler. Christine Huber, left, offered input in the studio on Madison Avenue. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); FINE JEWELRY (90%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (90%); FINE JEWELRY MFG (90%); JEWELRY (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); DIAMOND MARKETS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); FAMILY (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); APPAREL MFG (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); JEWELRY STORES (74%); WHOLESALERS (71%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%) Jewels and Jewelry ; Jewels and Jewelry 

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Julius Cohen Jeweler (NYC)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (93%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (93%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (93%)

PERSON: Louise Kramer; Jenny Lessard

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



359 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; AUTO RACING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Subject of Team Sizes Takes Focus Off Racing

BYLINE: By VIV BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: CONCORD, N.C., Oct. 15 

 BODY:
In the midst of Roush Racing's dominance of the Nextel Cup, with two championships in a row and five drivers competing for yet another title this year, Nascar has suddenly decided it is time to downsize.
 Brian France, the chairman and chief executive of Nascar, announced a week ago that mega-teams could be capped, with Roush Racing and the four-racecar program at Hendrick Motorsports possibly having to reduce their numbers.
The announcement turned the focus away from what has become a plodding chase of Tony Stewart, the Cup points leader, and toward what could be a monumental battle between multicar team owners and Nascar. Jack Roush said he had consulted a lawyer and could take legal action to prevent the forced breakup of his team. On Saturday, Roush Racing put out a five-page document arguing for the benefits of multicar ownership. At the same time, some owners are backing Nascar. 
 Nascar officials insist this is not a vendetta against mega-teams, including those owned by Roush and Rick Hendrick, which have won 7 of the past 10 Cup championships and account for 19 of 30 victories this season. Officials say it is becoming too expensive for smaller teams and prospective owners to compete in the Nextel Cup, Nascar's premier series.
 ''Jack Roush has done everything by the rules,'' Mike Helton, president of Nascar, said Thursday as teams prepared for the UAW-GM Quality 500 set for Saturday night at Lowe's Motor Speedway. ''He has done it correctly. He's done nothing wrong. And has done it very well. This is not about blowing Jack Roush up, because he's a great asset to the sport. What it is, is to look down the road so that the next generation of owners has a chance to be owners in this sport.''
 Nascar has found support among some in the Nextel Cup garage.
 ''I think you're better off not having a handful of guys have all the cars,'' said J.D. Gibbs, president of Joe Gibbs Racing. The team expanded to three cars this season and could win its third title this decade if Stewart holds on for the championship.
 Helton said the decision was not made out of concern that larger teams could band together to exert control over Nascar. That theory was shot down by Kyle Petty, the driver and team owner, who pointed out that as long as Nascar controls the racetracks, it controls the sport.
 Meanwhile, Roush said he was blindsided by the announcement. Roush Racing recently signed a 15-year merchandising agreement that involves International Speedway Corporation, the sister company of Nascar. The deal penalizes Roush Racing if it fields fewer than five racecars. 
 Roush said Nascar officials had assured him in the past that any cap would not be fewer than five cars. Helton would not put a definite number on a cap, with three- or four-car teams a possibility.
 ''For Brian to be able to pull off the thing he was alluding to,'' Roush said Thursday as he sat in the No. 6 hauler for the Mark Martin race team, ''I think we'd have to either be socialistic or communistic in terms of the way we run our economy.''
 Roush said his staff would possibly join with Hendrick Motorsports to present a united front to Nascar when they meet to discuss the issue in the near future. Helton said a decision on downsizing would most likely be made after the season and before teams begin testing in January.
 Owners like Roush have also raised the possibility of franchising race teams. That way, if Roush were forced to relinquish control of teams under his umbrella, he could sell them. But Nascar officials said that the idea had been reviewed and ruled out. If a cap is placed on teams, Helton said it would be phased in so that existing contracts with drivers and sponsors would be allowed to expire.
 ''I will consider my options that would enhance the survival of my business,'' Roush said. ''You can write from that whatever you want. I almost certainly will have options.''
 And Roush will also have allies among other owners. ''I don't think it would even be an issue if Roush didn't have five cars in the top 10,'' Petty said. ''For whatever reason, parity is a focus for Nascar.''
 Helton said some potential owners had opted not to enter the sport because of the rising cost. The last time a single-car team won a race was in 2003, when Ricky Craven won in Darlington, S.C.
 ''Well, obviously, as a small team, I support it,'' said the owner Bill Davis, who will expand from a one-car operation with the No. 22 Caterpillar Dodge driven by Scott Wimmer to a two-car operation with the driver Michael Waltrip next year. ''I think it's a step in the right direction.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); NASCAR RACING (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LITIGATION (74%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%) Automobile Racing; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL SPEEDWAY CORP (84%); LOWE'S MOTOR SPEEDWAY INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Roush Racing; Hendrick Motorsports

TICKER: ISCA (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS711219 OTHER SPECTATOR SPORTS (84%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (84%)

PERSON: Viv Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



360 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Loggers, Scorning the Law, Ravage the Amazon Jungle

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: UNIAO DA FLORESTA, Brazil 

 BODY:
As soon as the dry season arrives, the loggers swing into action. Day after day from June onward, their empty flatbed trucks depart early in the morning from this dusty settlement along the Trans-Amazon Highway, only to return starting in midafternoon, weighed down with the freshly cut trunks of ipe, jatoba and cedar trees.
 No matter that the Brazilian government last year suspended the permits required to chop down trees in this part of the jungle, making timber harvesting illegal for all but a handful of the loggers. No matter either that most of the valuable tropical hardwoods being felled with chainsaws and tractors stand on public lands that, at least in theory, are off limits even to the few timber merchants who still have licenses.
 ''It goes on all night long, with the traffic so intense some nights, 30 or 40 trucks thundering through, that people can't even sleep,'' said Milton Fernandes Coutinho, president of the local farmworkers' association, which represents peasant settlers living along the roads used by the loggers. ''We've complained over and over again to the government, but nobody does anything to stop them.'' 
 Brazilian government statistics suggest that widespread flouting of the law is also occurring elsewhere in the Amazon. Despite regulations that are more rigorous, at least on paper, and repeated pledges by President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva to crack down on those pillaging the world's largest tropical rain forest, shipments of wood from the region are booming as never before.
 According to government figures, Brazilian timber exports from the Amazon increased in value nearly 50 percent in 2004 over the previous year, to just under $1 billion. In the first half of this year, when the rainy season traditionally slows down activities, exports rose an additional 20 percent in value.
 Over all, nearly 40 percent of the wood cut in the Amazon is now being shipped overseas, compared with only 14 percent in 1999. Brazil's main markets are the United States, which accounts for one-third of all timber shipments abroad, followed by China, at 14 percent and growing rapidly, and European countries, which collectively account for 40 percent.
 ''The problem, though, is that the government's own figures indicate that about 60 percent of those exports are illegal,'' said Paulo Adario, who directs the Amazon campaign of the environmental group Greenpeace. ''So you have to ask yourself: how is it possible that even with logging permits suspended since July 2004, wood exports are continuing to rise so frighteningly?''
 Advocates for peasant settlers, including labor unions and Roman Catholic Church officials, answer by pointing to the traditional reluctance of the federal government's environmental and forestry agency, known as Ibama, to act against loggers and sawmill owners. The agency is chronically short of staff and money, its employees are often threatened, and neither the army nor the police are willing to provide protection to inspectors on official missions.
 ''You can have a thousand laws on paper, but they don't mean anything unless the authorities enforce them,'' said Erwin Krautler, the Roman Catholic bishop of the Xingu region. Ibama officials, however, argue that they are enforcing the law more aggressively now and have begun making progress. They note that seizures of illegally cut wood are up, that the volume of timber harvested has begun to drop sharply, and that for the first time ever, a timber merchant was recently jailed for logging on public land.
 ''As regards issues of monitoring and enforcement, you have to look at the Amazon in a broad context,'' Joao Paulo Capobianco, the agency's director of forests, said in a telephone interview from Brasilia. ''Even if we were to shut off all of the exits, there would still be some places where timber would still leave illegally. But there is no doubt that our performance this year has infinitely improved compared to previous years.''
 In this jungle region, however, timber trucks still roam freely and unchecked on the rutted dirt roads, with no sign of inspectors. One afternoon in September, for example, a truck loaded down with logs and workers roared into town to drop off the laborers at their homes.
 ''Is it really necessary to take all these pictures?'' one worker asked nervously when a reporter and photographer approached the truck. When asked if his work crew had permits to cut timber, he replied: ''No, we don't have any management plan. Nobody here does. You're not going to tell Ibama, are you?''
 The truck hurried off, but a few minutes later stopped at a sawmill operated by Nilson Samuelson, a former mayor here. Visible through an open gate was a truck laden with timber. In a telephone interview, Mr. Samuelson -- who organized a demonstration here in 2003 against Ibama inspectors at which he said that ''we need to bring bin Laden here to teach these people a lesson'' -- acknowledged that he was breaking the law and said, ''My activities are none of your business.'' He also argued that economic necessity justified his actions. ''If you're going to bust me, you're going to have to bust everybody, because nobody here has authorizations,'' he said. ''We're just trying to survive. Who is going to give me the money to pay my employees and educate my children? What are you trying to do, have Ibama wipe me out and leave 250 families without jobs? Who cares about the law? What am I supposed to do, go hungry?''
 With large parts of the eastern and southern flanks of the Amazon already devastated, the principal target of loggers and sawmill owners these days is the so-called Terra do Meio, or Midlands, between the Xingu and Iriri Rivers. In fact, the area north of here, between the Trans-Amazon Highway and the Amazon River, is so active that local people have begun calling it Iraq. ''Because the loggers are bombing the life out of it,'' Mr. Coutinho of the farmworkers' association explained.
 According to testimony in a parliamentary inquiry into the illegal timber trade, irregularities in another government program have also contributed to the recent lumber boom. Called Legal Harvest, the new program was meant to benefit poor peasants, but according to a report of the congressional committee has become an illicit fund-raising device for Mr. da Silva's Workers' Party.
 The program allows thousands of peasant settler families to cut down about 7.5 acres of forest on their lands yearly and to sell the timber to sawmills. But according to the testimony of the president of the state loggers' union, Mario Rubens de Souza Rodrigues, loggers often simply buy certificates from peasants who have already cleared their fields and use the documents to cover up their own illegal harvesting.
 In return, loggers and sawmill operators made large donations during the most recent national municipal elections to candidates of the governing Workers' Party, which at the national level is already mired in the worst corruption scandal in modern Brazilian history. Among those named in Brazilian press reports as having taken part in the timber arrangement are the new mayor here and her husband, who is a congressional deputy, and a federal senator and her former husband, the regional chief of the environmental agency.
 ''The Legal Harvest program has been suspended, but we have no indication that indicates these allegations can be verified,'' said Mr. Capobianco, the agency official in Brasilia. ''We think that the plan is the correct way to do things, and it is our intention to continue with this mechanism so long as we can assure conditions that guarantee no fraud is taking place.''
 Workers' Party officials also deny any involvement in improprieties related to the plan. But government investigators confirm that they are examining the program and that they have found irregularities.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Men transporting illegally cut hardwood in the town of Uniao da Floresta. The government has suspended the permits required for jungle logging. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)Map of Brazil highlighting Uniao da Floresta: Illegal logging is devastating the area around Uniao da Floresta.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); RAIN FORESTS (77%); FARM LABOR (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SAW MILLS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); STATISTICS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); RELIGION (60%); RIVERS (59%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%) 

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (79%) Larry Rohter; Luis Inacio Lula (Pres) Da Silva

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (97%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Amazon River Basin; Brazil; China; Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



361 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 8434 words

HEADLINE: Chasing Ground

BYLINE: By Jon Gertner. 
Jon Gertner, a contributing writer, last wrote for the magazine about reduced-risk cigarettes.

 BODY:
Back in the mid-1990's, when home prices were just beginning to climb and 8 percent interest rates seemed like a get-'em-while-you-can phenomenon -- back, back, way back when the average two-bedroom apartment in Manhattan had not yet reached $1.5 million and investors were not yet speculating in unbuilt condos near Miami and no one had yet envisioned how popular interest-only mortgages would be -- a business executive named Bob Toll was already thinking seriously about how big a home-building company like his could get. At the time, Toll Brothers was infamous for what Toll refers to as ''the estate home'' but what critics have, much to his dismay, tagged ''the McMansion.'' Toll's company, which he started with his younger brother, Bruce, in 1967 and took public in 1986, had spent the better part of the 1980's and early 1990's building thousands of these houses, princely abodes configured in a market-tested pattern of meandering streets and cul-de-sacs with names (the Glen at Hurley Ridge) meant to evoke afternoon teas and fox hunts. Once the boom was under way, however, Toll Brothers began to try new things. It broadened its product line by building more condominium units and retirement communities. More significant, it scouted property far from its traditional base in the Northeast. By the late 1990's, Toll Brothers possessed land in 18 states. The company purchased expensive urban sites in Jersey City and Manhattan; it even bought the hulking Maxwell House factory on the Hoboken waterfront, across the Hudson River from Midtown Manhattan, in partnership with another firm, in order to demolish the industrial shell and transform the site into a gigantic condominium complex. 
According to Bob Toll, he came to see his company as one that could build any kind of luxury home, in any style, in any place where there was opportunity. And to him, that opportunity to sell luxury properties to Americans seemed immense.
Toll spends every Monday poring over prospective land deals in his firm's headquarters, a nondescript three-story building in a Horsham, Pa., office park located about 30 minutes northwest of Philadelphia. For the head of a company known for the cut-glass chandeliers and double-height foyers in its signature mansions, his office is a strikingly declasse affair. (Bruce Toll is vice chairman of the board and an active adviser but plays no daily management role.) The ceilings are low, the lighting is harsh, the air-conditioning is on the blink. Toll's shares in his company are now worth more than a half-billion dollars, yet he does his business on the cheap: a glass-topped table surrounded by dining-room chairs in fuzzy orange fabric that were salvaged from a bankrupt company years ago. One after another, his deputies visit his office on Monday nights, sometimes past midnight, to submit parcels for consideration. A $30 million deal for a piece of property is common these days, and a $150 million deal is not unheard of. If the price is right and the ground is good -- no one at the company calls it land -- Toll wants it before the competition. In fact, when he hears about good ground in a town with a strong real-estate market and jobs nearby, Toll gets visibly excited. He gently claps his hands together and rubs his palms. Then he will give a green light to lock up the parcel for development. ''Now we're cooking,'' he says. ''What's next?''
 From the time I first visited the Toll Brothers offices last winter -- and through all my visits to its projects around the New York region, where I watched workers bulldoze lots and pour concrete foundations and frame one new house after another -- my hope was that I would get a picture of how rapidly, and toward what end, land is being bought and consumed for residential development in this country. I may as well admit that I also imagined I might get a firsthand look at how deep the trouble could be when (and not necessarily if) the air begins to rush out of this real-estate market. But winter turned to spring, and spring turned to summer. The strong sales for houses and condominiums on both coasts, even in cities like Las Vegas and Phoenix, continued apace. Sales figures for existing homes broke records. Sales figures for new homes broke records. Sales of Toll Brothers homes broke records. At one of the company's developments, the Estates at Princeton Junction, a half-built community of houses and apartments outside of Princeton, N.J., I watched as steadily rising prices met little resistance. By midsummer, big houses that were selling for $560,000 when they first hit the market 24 months earlier were now going for at least $935,000. ''Some people here have already made $200,000 or $300,000'' in appreciation, Tom Gestite, who is managing the project for Toll Brothers, told me one day last July as we strolled through a half-finished mini-mansion. In Gestite's view -- one that seemed to prevail throughout the company -- developments like Princeton Junction would be a sure bet if the market paused to catch its breath.
 Even as housing sales slowed in late summer, it remained clear that the idea of a bubble wasn't really worrying the people at Toll Brothers like it was the rest of us. But why? Bob Toll conceded to me that Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, had a good point: some housing markets were frothy and infested with speculators. Toll agreed that the mortgage industry needed to tighten up its lending practices and stop pushing interest-only loans to high-risk clients. In midsummer, he predicted that some metropolitan areas -- ''New York and Washington and Phoenix and San Fran and L.A. and Las Vegas and Naples and Boca'' -- were about to slow down painfully. ''Investors will get creamed, and they'll get out of the deals,'' he said, noting that a subsequent recovery would take anywhere from 3 to 10 months. But beyond that -- a catastrophic crash? ''Why can't real estate just have a boom like every other industry?'' Toll asked in complaint. ''Why do we have to have a bubble and then a pop?''
 Perhaps this was a reasonable question. A number of companies like Toll's have, over the past few years, transformed the American home into a corporate product -- probably the last item in our $11 trillion economy that has yet to be marketed and branded on a national scale to consumers. At the moment, one in four new homes in the United States is built by a large publicly traded home builder, but this ratio will probably change significantly. Several Wall Street analysts and most of the big home builders seem confident that their companies will be responsible for half of all new homes in the United States within 10 years and perhaps more (as the industry consolidates). In the meantime, as builders like Toll consider the effects of a cooling real-estate market, they remain students of the steady, inexorable force of America's population growth. Where (and how) will the next generation of Americans live? And how much will they pay? The big builders need to know, because they intend to build those places. A look at their land reserves gives you a sense of their grand intentions. At the moment, Toll controls enough land for nearly 80,000 houses. Its competitors, which tend to build lower-priced houses on smaller lots, have even larger accumulations. K. Hovnanian has land for more than 100,000 houses. Pulte Homes holds 350,000 sites. Still others -- Lennar, Centex Homes, D. R. Horton, KB Home -- control hundreds of thousands as well. And all of them are in ferocious pursuit of more. 
 Builders by their very nature are optimistic, and to regard the real-estate market as they do is to see a future that depends not on the short-term fate of the Florida and California condominium markets but on the long-term supply of land. That supply shapes the priorities of businessmen like Toll. They ponder where it will lead them to build in 5 or 10 years. And they consider the relationship between supply and the latest home-building statistics and economic indicators. Right now, there are about 34 million rented apartments and 74 million owner-occupied homes in the U.S. Enormous as these numbers may appear, in many metro areas, not just Las Vegas, the turnover of existing stock has not been able to accommodate the demand from immigrants, arrivals from out-of-state, expanding families and Americans in search of a second home for vacation or retirement. For the past few years, nearly 20 percent of single-family-home buyers have been purchasing newly constructed houses. Some builders turned to infill housing, looking to old industrial spaces or unused urban lots to satisfy demand. For the most part, though, they have plotted new communities farther and farther outside of cities, their handiwork visible in the archipelagoes of freshly minted neighborhoods that have arisen along the traffic corridors on both coasts and now ring the outskirts of every thriving city in the United States.
 All told, the home-building industry has constructed about 13.5 million single-family homes since the mid-1990's; last year alone, single-family ''starts'' numbered about 1.6 million, a new record. In historical terms, our recent boom rivals, and in many regards outpaces, the frenzied building of the early 1950's. David Seiders, the chief economist for the National Association of Home Builders, told me in early October that the industry still expects to set another record this year, even as the industry begins to hit ''the plateau we've been watching and waiting for.'' Next year, Seiders said, he projects 1.58 million single-family-home starts.
 As Bob Toll would say, builders need an awful lot of ground to plot so much housing. And if there is a simple mathematical equation that defines this work, it's that newly bought land plus a plan for development equals some amount of resistance in the form of political opposition. In recent years, the difficulty of getting things built has made business harder for small, local builders and easier for big companies, with their greater resources, to gain control of the housing market. ''The large builders have taken the position: we're just going to fight,'' Chris Mayer, a housing economist at Columbia University's business school, says. '' 'We have lawyers, we have experts, we have money, we're going to buy these tracts of land and fight it out' '' -- that, according to Mayer, is their position. ''That has proven very time-consuming. But the local builder who used to have the benefit of knowing the local people -- that has become far less important than the ability of the big builders to fight the current regulatory environment.'' As Mayer points out, virtually every state in the country now has policies to restrain developers. No matter the region, he says, the small developer is at a tremendous disadvantage. And in buying local building companies, many big builders have found a simple and unobtrusive way to enter into new regions and metro areas.
 Toll Brothers is a creature of this revolution. ''We intended always to expand out of the Philadelphia suburbs and into New Jersey and into New York and Connecticut and Rhode Island and Massachusetts,'' Toll said. He never imagined, however, that he would be able to expand nationwide as quickly as he has. In his early days, he told me, if he wanted to build a few hundred homes in Pennsylvania, he could get a parcel of land through the approval process in a year or two. Now it's up to five years. He estimates that New York, California and Massachusetts take a similar amount of time. Even Florida and Virginia -- traditionally easy places to build -- can require a year or two. ''This business was made for us to a large extent by Nimby politics,'' Toll said, referring to Not in My Backyard objections. ''I don't denigrate Nimby, by the way. I just deal with it. It is. It's human nature. You don't want to see anything built behind where you live.''
 His experience with Nimby opposition, Toll added, leads him to believe that the political resistance to land development around the country will get more intense in the coming years. When I spoke with him in September, he noted that a drop in consumer confidence in the wake of Hurricane Katrina was not a good sign for an economy ''that runs on confidence.'' Still, he said, the fundamentals were the same as before: the supply of developable acreage in many markets would remain limited, ensuring big profits. Indeed, Toll seemed certain that firms like his -- with an expertise at finding and developing land -- would become increasingly successful. The company expects to grow by 20 percent for the next two years and then will strive for 15 percent annually after that. Those estimates suggest that the company's expected production of around 8,600 houses this year will expand to at least 15,000 houses by 2010. Individual Toll developments now range in size from a few dozen to 3,000 houses.
 Of course, there's more to the economics of the housing market than the supply of land. Demand can be influenced by everything from higher interest rates, which can disqualify hundreds of thousands of potential home buyers, to a region's rate of job creation, which can determine the pool of potential buyers. Regional wage growth -- are workers' salaries rising in step with house prices? -- still matters. Serendipity can play a part, too. The slackening demand for homes in autumn would drop more drastically if the larger economy were to slip into a recession. Or it could drop, as the Yale economist Robert Shiller has pointed out, if investors lose their ''irrationally exuberant'' conviction (unjustified by historical data, in his view) that their homes will undoubtedly appreciate for the foreseeable future. Demand could also weaken in the wake of a large terrorist attack. And what if the price of gas, already reaching record levels after Katrina, hits $8 a gallon? Will anyone still want to live in a new development 50 miles from his job? 
 None of these contingencies shake the faith of the big, publicly held builders. Indeed, many are adamant that the tightening supply of land in many metro areas, as well as long-term demographic trends, augur an American future that works to their advantage. Recently, the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard suggested that a large influx of immigrants and a longer-living population will combine in the next 10 years to create the highest levels of household growth since the boomers entered the housing market in the 1970's. Toll Brothers, which has a specific niche in the luxury market, sees additional opportunity in the wealth of many next-generation homeowners. In conversation, Bob Toll laments a government that seems intent on ''the creation of more wealth for the wealthy''; he even calls attention to a rising American ''oligopoly.'' Yet his company, whose average home now sells for $665,000 -- more than twice what any other national home builder gets -- owes much to the growth of the affluent class. The company's promotional literature calls attention to the fact that the number of households with incomes of more than $100,000 is growing six times as fast as that of all U.S. households. Toll Brothers doesn't merely profit from the growing income gap; it owes its very existence to it.
 In the past couple of years, Toll and his deputies have begun analyzing European housing data to see if they hold any lessons for a maturing American housing market. Toll has been talking up the research to stock analysts and the financial press for the past year. His conclusions carry a whiff of new-paradigm thinking, but he nevertheless seems convinced that Europe's present-day reality is America's destiny. I asked Toll what our children -- my kids are both under 8, I told him -- would be paying when they're ready to buy. ''They're going to live with us until they're 40,'' Toll said matter-of-factly. ''And when they have their second kid, then we'll finally kick them out and make them pay for the house that we paid for. And that house will cost them 45 to 50 percent of their income.''
 I grew alarmed. Was he kidding? He assured me he was not. ''It's all just logic,'' Toll said. ''In Britain you pay seven times your annual income for a home; in the U.S. you pay three and a half.'' The British get 330 square feet, per person, in their homes; in the U.S., we get 750 square feet. Not only does Toll say he believes the next generation of buyers will be paying twice as much of their annual incomes; in terms of space, he also seems to think they're going to get only half as much. ''And that average, million-dollar insane home in the burbs? It's going to be $4 million.''
 On a scorching afternoon this past summer, I watched as Zvi Barzilay, the president of Toll Brothers and Bob Toll's right-hand man, convened a weekly meeting of a dozen senior executives at Toll company headquarters. Barzilay checks in regularly with the men to see if they've encountered construction or operational problems at any of the current 230 Toll developments they oversee; he also uses the meetings to encourage these managers to exchange information. The average customer spends $103,000 on special extras like additional bathrooms and prime locations, and Barzilay is mindful of the possibility that a new brass faucet that succeeds in Arizona can succeed in Michigan. Basement recreation rooms migrated from the Northeast down to Dallas; second staircases have gone from Pennsylvania to Maryland; capacious ''bonus rooms'' above or abutting the garage have moved from Charlotte, N.C., where they were common, to communities north of the Mason-Dixon and west of the Mississippi. ''It was thought for a time that you couldn't sell a house with a master bedroom suite on the first floor in the Philadelphia area,'' Joel Rassman, the Toll Brothers C.F.O., told me one day in the company cafeteria. ''We tried it and found that just was not true.''
 Barzilay finished the meeting by insisting that the men work harder chasing ground. The reigning philosophy at Toll seems to be that the company needs to step up its land acquisitions, even though its current reserves should be enough for six or seven years of building. Barzilay insists that his vice presidents do anything necessary to find acreage, even examine satellite photography (using Google Earth, for example).
 He and Toll have structured the company in an entrepreneurial fashion -- each vice president responsible for building communities in particular territories is also charged with finding more ground. Doug Yearley, for instance, a senior vice president who takes a seat at Barzilay's weekly meeting, oversees Toll developments in New Jersey, South Carolina and several Midwestern states. Yearley is very much a believer that the company can never have too much ground. ''In any region, we make sure we're fully connected with all the brokers, with all the planners, with all the lawyers,'' he told me. ''We let them know that we are desperately looking for more land. We put ads in the paper; we have sections in our Web site asking, 'Do you have land?' We assign territories to land-acquisition managers, and that's all they do.'' If someone on Yearley's land-acquisition team is in charge of three counties, he has to know every piece of land in every desirable town in each of those counties. He has to know every elected official. He has to carry around a color-coded map of every town in his or her area so as to know where sewer lines and power lines run, since both can determine the viability of any potential subdivision. ''Every parcel that's more than 50 acres that has not been developed,'' Yearley added, ''has to be identified.'' In urban areas it can be even smaller.
 Toll Brothers usually options a piece of land rather than buying it outright; this enables the company to back out of a deal if a township refuses to provide the clearances needed to build. (Once Toll gets the permits and is ready to break ground, it buys a parcel outright.) But sometimes the firm works in other ways. In the early 1990's, for example, Yearley became aware of defaulted loans being auctioned off by the federal government as a result of widespread savings-and-loan failures. Yearley persuaded Bob Toll to bid for one of the loan packages, which ultimately led to the company's taking control of a few dozen parcels of land in New Jersey. One of them was a 290-acre tract of cornfields in West Windsor, a few miles from Princeton University. West Windsor's biggest claim to fame may be that Orson Welles broadcast his ''War of the Worlds'' radio show in 1938 from a theater in town. From a developer's standpoint, there were several attractions. The township schools were known to be good, and the Princeton Junction commuter train station, with direct transportation to New York City, was nearby. So were the Route 1 corridor and plenty of good jobs. But what struck Yearley and Bob Toll was that the West Windsor area hadn't had any new home construction in years. The demand was high, the supply low.
 If there is a place that predicts the future of American housing development, it would be New Jersey, which happens to be the first state that Toll Brothers expanded into from the Philadelphia environs in the early 1980's. In those days, the permit process in the state -- the time it takes a developer to get a parcel approved by a municipality to start building -- took about a year or two. It currently takes up to seven or eight. And that's only once Toll can get its hands on a parcel. More and more land in New Jersey is being taken out of the development cycle, placed off-limits to preserve open space and wetlands, for instance, or zoned into seven-acre lots by affluent suburbs in an effort to dissuade builders from constructing subdivisions with any real density (and thus any real profits). ''When Levittown was created on Long Island, William Levitt built up thousand-acre parcels,'' James W. Hughes, dean of planning and public policy at Rutgers University, told me. ''That doesn't exist anymore. There aren't even many 200-acre parcels left in New Jersey now.'' There may be good reason for this, Hughes adds. New Jersey's density is currently 1,165 people per square mile -- denser than both India (at 914) and Japan (835). No other state even comes close.
 The conventional thinking in planning circles is that New Jersey will be the first state in the U.S. to stop large- and medium-scale development outright. ''It may be that New Jersey could be the first fully built-out state in the country in the next 10 or 15 years, under this pattern of growth,'' says Robert Lang of the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech. The Los Angeles metro area is not far behind. Again, the distinction between these areas and Minneapolis or Phoenix -- ''places that still have a lot of room to run,'' according to Lang -- is not that every field of wildflowers will be paved into parking lots or built into bungalows for empty nesters. It's that they'll effectively be off-limits to developers. Then, if demand stays steady, that meager land supply will, presumably, steadily drive housing prices up. In the case of West Windsor, this dynamic had already assured Yearley and Toll Brothers of two things. First, they would face an acrimonious dispute before getting any development plan approved. And second, that they would make an extraordinary amount of money once they did.
 One idea that shapes the outlook of real-estate economists is the notion that cities, in a rough conceptual sense, are replacements for one another. A city is founded, and residents and industries settle there; over time, that city and its metro area might reach a population of a million residents. As demand to live there increases and the supply of good land diminishes, housing gets more expensive. But lo, another city arises nearby, where land is cheaper and jobs are plentiful. Residents can now leave the first big city, if they choose, and move to the second, smaller city. Until, that is, the second city becomes large and crowded and expensive as well. Then another city grows nearby, and so on. As pressure on prices and land builds, a new city can act as a pressure release.
 It's possible that this model has broken down over the past few years. A small cadre of economists, in fact, has begun to ask whether the irrepressible inflation of home values in many coastal metro areas actually reflects a deeper logic based on the straitened land supply in these cities. Boom-time rationalists always run the risk of earning a black mark of infamy like that worn by the Yale professor Irving Fisher. (Just before the 1929 stock-market crash, Fisher declared that stocks had reached ''what looks like a permanently high plateau.'') And it is virtually impossible to find an economist -- or a home builder, for that matter -- who thinks the recent growth rates in home prices are sustainable; even the most sanguine among them predict more moderate appreciation over the long run. Yet almost without exception these thinkers, though they come from different political persuasions and even different research specialties, have attributed high home prices to zoning. Further, they have amassed a fair amount of data to support their arguments.
 Bob Toll's opinions about how the American market resembles the European market derive in part from the work of Susan Wachter, a housing economist at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, where Toll occasionally drops in to talk to students about real estate. To Wachter, an assistant secretary at the Department of Housing and Urban Development during the Clinton administration, ''the fundamentals of supply and demand have shifted in the U.S.'' Wachter says she believes the widespread adoption of controls on growth and building -- beginning in the mid-1990's, just about the time that Toll began to expand nationally -- have pushed up prices in so many regions that it is increasingly difficult for one desirable city to relieve the pressure in another. I asked Wachter whether she would, like Toll, equate home prices in popular American cities with prices in Europe. ''We're different than Europe,'' Wachter told me, ''but there will be convergence.'' In her opinion, the U.S. housing market is somewhere between where we used to be before 1995 and ''where Europe is right now'' -- where, that is, a smaller supply of land and a stricter regulatory environment make building significantly more expensive. (European towns also have less incentive to encourage development, Wachter says, because they generally do not, unlike their American equivalents, depend on their local tax base to pay for education and services, which tend to be federalized.) ''The fact of the matter is that housing prices are increasing in the U.S., faster than inflation, in ways we haven't seen before,'' Wachter says. ''Ten years running. It's the first time in keeping these numbers that we've ever had a run like that.''
 Wachter isn't alone in connecting building regulations and prices. Recently, Joe Gyourko, at the Wharton School, and Edward Glaeser, at Harvard University, used sample prices from 25 areas to show that the cost of housing in a metropolitan area appears to be in direct correlation to its degree of zoning ordinances. And in a coming paper, Chris Mayer of Columbia, writing with Gyourko and Todd Sinai at Wharton, calls attention to the pricing patterns in what they call ''superstar cities.'' In metro areas like New York and San Francisco, dynamic and attractive places with limited supplies of land, prices can conceivably go up at above-average rates for a very long time -- ''basically forever,'' Mayer says. ''When San Francisco gets so expensive that a rich person says: 'You know what? I don't want to pay that much, I'll go look at Chicago instead' -- that's what has to stop it ultimately. But there's nothing in our model that says that ever has to happen. Every time we think that housing is ridiculously expensive in the U.S., we should go look at Europe and Asia. Even after 15 years of declines in Tokyo, it's still more expensive than living in Manhattan. There's no natural law that says U.S. housing prices have to stop here. None.''
 Mayer wonders whether steep appreciation rates will ultimately force some places to reconfigure their zoning in a way that denser development (or more development) increases the housing supply and relieves the pressure on prices. I asked Toll about this: What happens when New Jersey reaches build-out? ''We've been trying to build it out, but we can't get our hands on it,'' he said. ''We could sell every square foot that we could build on. I mean, anything within 15 minutes of Interstate 78 could be built and sold. Allentown, Bethlehem, Easton, all the way into New York City. And it's all sitting there.'' Toll didn't seem to think the situation would change. And the fact that so much is out of reach makes everything within reach all the more precious.
 Such high stakes explain his company's aggressiveness as well as its resolve. Toll has estimated that 90 percent of the company's projects in New Jersey involve some sort of legal entanglement. The Princeton Junction project was an exception only in the breadth and duration of the litigation. The township of West Windsor balked at Toll's development plan in the early 1990's, just as it had balked at the previous developer whose defaulted loans Toll assumed. So Toll sued. By invoking something called the Mount Laurel law, named for a township in New Jersey, a builder like Toll can push development forward if its plan includes affordable housing in a township where such a need exists. A judge who recognizes a Mount Laurel claim can impose a settlement, allowing the builder to construct its homes as long as it puts up a smaller number of affordable units.
 Toll won its Princeton Junction case in 1997. ''Essentially, we were awarded a builder's remedy,'' Yearley says, which means that the judge agreed that West Windsor needed more affordable housing and that Toll could build. The appeals, which went to the State Supreme Court, took several more years, but by 2002 Toll had won at every level and had a state-approved plan allowing for 1,165 housing units. Of those, 535 would be stand-alone luxury homes and luxury town houses; the other 630 units would be one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments, 175 of which would rent for below-market rates and therefore be designated as affordable housing. It took 10 years from the time Yearley bought the loans for the Princeton Junction land until the company was allowed to break ground. Even before a single bulldozer arrived to clear topsoil, the company's legal bill amounted to $2 million.
 In the 1970's and early 1980's, Toll Brothers was known as a custom builder: the company constructed a modest number of houses to the exacting specifications of its wealthy customers, going out of its way to install any type of wainscoting or kitchen appliance a buyer wanted. In the early 1980's, however, Bob Toll asked his C.F.O., Joel Rassman, to take a look at why some developments were proving far more profitable than others. In poring over the books, Rassman discovered something he and Toll didn't believe possible: the developments that offered the greatest number of luxury extras made the least money. ''The more options we sold,'' Rassman told me, ''the less we made.'' Rassman found that it wasn't an option like a whirlpool tub that cut into profits; the problem was managing the option process. Too many choices created too many construction errors, delays and costs. So Toll Brothers quickly whittled down its telephone-directory-size book of options to something more manageable, first to a 120-page list, then something even smaller. The company figured it could satisfy 98 percent of its buyers if it found the right companies to engineer precisely the right products -- stoves, windows, fixtures, cabinets -- to fit precisely into the right architectural variations. In turn, Toll coined a neologism: in 1985, the company became a ''semi-custom'' builder. It still offered a lot of expensive extras, but only those that fit into a highly profitable system of luxury mass production. Rassman and the rest of the company had already learned that buyers will choose visible flourishes over pragmatism every time. During the energy crisis of the late 1970's, for instance, one option was a higher grade of insulation. ''No one bought it,'' Barzilay, Toll's president, says. ''Everyone spent their extra money on moldings.''
 Wall Street has reluctantly come around to the belief that the big home builders, after years of record earnings, are more financially durable than traditional contractors, whose businesses have lived and died by the boom-bust cycle. Several stock analysts told me that they've become convinced that Toll and its competitors have the resources to survive (perhaps even prosper) during an economic rough patch like the one that may have begun this fall; the analysts have likewise taken note that big builders put up homes only after signing a contract and getting a deposit. (Until recently, most builders built on spec, thus increasing the risk of getting stuck with large stocks of unsold houses in the event of a crash.) Above all, the investment community seems enamored with how executives like Bob Toll have refined production methods over the past decade to push down costs. Toll Brothers uses prebuilt wall panels and roof-truss systems, for instance, shipped from its factories to home sites; Pulte Homes, a competitor, has gone so far as to introduce prefabricated concrete panels (in lieu of site-poured concrete foundations). Such techniques aren't entirely new to house construction. Even before the biblical-scale assembly line of Long Island's Levittown (built in the late 40's and early 50's and still, at 17,000 houses, among the most ambitious residential construction projects in American history), Sears, Roebuck & Company shipped more than 100,000 mass-produced catalog houses to places all over the country. As Bob Toll pointed out, ''The ancient Romans had trusses, too.'' Toll said he doesn't think home construction is much different from 60 years ago, when his father was building houses in suburban Philadelphia.
 What's more revolutionary is how Toll, Pulte and the others don't really build anything, at least in a technical sense. All the physical work in a place like Princeton Junction, for example, is contracted or subcontracted to dozens of electrical, framing, roofing, painting, masonry and plumbing companies, many of which follow Toll in itinerant fashion from development to development for years on end. These contractors, not Toll employees, do the actual building, in accordance with Toll's signature designs and management strictures. They answer to a team of Toll executives at every site who are trained to see a community's physical manifestation as part of the larger process of packaging and selling the American dream. ''We're really a marketing company that happens to build houses,'' Doug Yearley told me.
 Once efforts to secure a piece of ground are complete, the firm wastes little time in applying the full force of its marketing and design expertise. The density of a Toll community is largely defined by local zoning, which determines the size of housing lots and, to some extent, the layout. So Toll generally works backward from a site: calculating that X number of houses of a certain frontage width can fit within a new piece of ground, then plugging those results into a street pattern that respects geology and geography. Toll Brothers has created more than 800 residential communities over the years, so engineers often model a prospective community on one that has already proved profitable. (Toll often uses geographical attributes -- Ridge Road, Lake Drive -- as the inspiration for names, although on occasion, contests at the company headquarters end up letting employees name a street in a new development.)
 Next come the products, also called houses. The size and style of what to build -- stately Colonials, for example, or Mediterranean-style ranches -- depend on regional tastes as well as on marketplace data of how much comparable homes in the vicinity, built either by the competition or by Toll itself, have sold for. The company has 971 different floor plans in its repertory, everything from urban-style town houses to steroidal center-hall Colonials, all with a wide array of bump-out and bump-up options. But as Jed Gibson, a vice president who runs Toll's architecture division, explained to me one day, ''Our business model is: what's selling out there, and how can we do it better?'' Often, that means that his team must respond quickly when an executive like Yearley says that a new house style from a competitor is selling briskly and that Toll needs a competing product with similar features as soon as possible.
 Sometimes, one or two of Gibson's architects visit a house they're trying to emulate. ''We have something at Toll Brothers I call our special sauce,'' Gibson said, describing the ''lines of sight'' and ''spacious feel'' inside its homes. ''So we take the deficiencies of the competition's homes and improve upon them.'' When he first started at the company in 1993, Gibson recalled, Toll Brothers was following the market trend by replacing 8-foot ceilings on the first floors with 9-foot ones. ''By 1997 and 1998, we started offering homes with 9-foot first and second floors. And in January 2002, we started offering 10- foot first floors.'' In Gibson's view, such modifications are tweaks on the real yeoman's work, which is providing every customer with the essential 4 bedrooms and 2* bathrooms. Still, the alacrity with which his department can design a new house (one week) and introduce it to potential buyers (a few months) is one reason the American home, at least aesthetically, seems to be undergoing rapid evolutionary change. Gibson's office can also move quickly to create new exteriors as well as interiors when tastes change. Take the Toll product known as the Columbia, which happens to be among Gibson's and Bob Toll's favorites. (Neither Toll nor Gibson owns one, though. Toll lives in an 18th-century farmhouse; Gibson in a 1915 craftsman-style bungalow he's restoring.) I asked Gibson who at Toll actually designed the Columbia. He didn't know. Gibson said that it was originally called the Cornell when it made its debut 17 years ago and has since proved to be the company's best-selling house. ''It has 22 exterior looks that we can put on it,'' he explained, which means the Cornell/Columbia can hide behind a French provincial in Pennsylvania and a redbrick Colonial face in New England. It can, Gibson said, go anywhere or be anything. 
 Of course, the Columbia was an option when it came time to sell the Estates at Princeton Junction, a push that began just as the litigation was concluding in late 2002. The company had compiled a list of 4,000 people who had expressed an interest in the development. In January 2003, Toll sent an e-mail message to these potential buyers to say it was organizing informational seminars at a nearby Hyatt hotel, to be followed by a phone lottery the following week. ''In a two-week timespan, we had the seminars, phone lottery and the deposits,'' Tom Gestite, the site's project manager, said. The initial batch of 60 houses was spoken for in about 20 minutes. Since then, the company has periodically put new groups of houses on the market and has sold about 10 to 15 per month. Thanks to the company's automatic price increases -- the price of a development's homes might rise by $5,000, say, for every five sold -- the more Toll sells, the more Toll's profits expand.
 One day last spring, I toured model homes with Gestite. Before the houses were ready to be shown, Gestite told me, he and the Toll sales team got together with a decorator to create detailed, imaginary narratives about the families that ''live'' in the homes. The team decided the father in one model home attended Princeton (hence an abundance of orange and black pennants). In another, they conjured a child who loves Harry Potter so much his room has a Hogwarts motif. ''We always try to have memory points, 'Pirates of the Caribbean' painted on the walls, swashbucklers,'' Gestite said. ''Then Johnny can go home and say to his parents, 'I really like the pirate room.' ''
 You can see how it adds up in the end: the stealthy land acquisition, the aggressive legal positioning, the meandering street designs, the furiously gabled architecture, the fungible options and home facades, the demographic targets -- an entire vertically integrated, highly methodological luxury system. Not long ago, Fortune magazine estimated that the company would make around $100 million on the Estates at Princeton Junction. The company now maintains that the actual number will be higher. Consider a single house, and you can see why. In the part of the development characterized by Heritage Collection houses, the actual cost of building a single 2,700-square-foot home -- infrastructure, land, labor and materials, mostly -- has changed little over the past two years: it's probably in the vicinity of $300,000. Yet a Heritage-style house went on the market in spring of 2003 at $424,000. It now costs $695,000, extras not included.
 Today, the mayor of West Windsor is a former New Jersey state environmental administrator named Shing-Fu Hsueh. He sees the tensions in his town as emblematic of the larger battles being fought around the country between developers and preservation champions. Genial, hard-working and immodest in the way of a small-town politician -- ''Did I tell you I got over 87 percent of the vote last year?'' he asked soon after I met him in the town's municipal offices -- Hsueh (pronounced SHAY) is a native of Taiwan who moved to New Jersey in 1969. Toll Brothers and West Windsor seem to have settled into a peaceful coexistence in the two years since the company began building the Estates at Princeton Junction, a truce that has been helped in part by Hsueh's willingness to address land-use issues a little less confrontationally. ''I don't think you can stop development,'' he told me. ''If you try to stop something, the courts will make decisions for you, and it will be even worse.'' What's regrettable, Hsueh said, was not that Toll was allowed by the courts to develop 290 acres or even that it will ultimately build more than a thousand homes here, but that the town didn't work with the company to create more of a mixed-use area -- one where offices, stores and homes commingle, for example, or one where a different configuration allows more open land to be preserved. ''If I had the opportunity to see it done over again,'' he said wistfully, ''I would have loved to see that.''
 Hsueh showed me a large map of West Windsor. His town, now with a population of around 25,000, has more than 65 cul-de-sacs, which he regards as a problem accentuated by the Toll layout. The Estates at Princeton Junction, he said, pointing to the area where the new streets hadn't yet been drawn in, will be a big lonely island of suburbia, bound by train tracks on one side and farm fields and woods on the others, a place connected to nothing else in town, leaving its residents largely in thrall to their automobiles. Hsueh then tapped on another part of the map: a 90-acre-or-so parcel of woods and fields wedged between Princeton Junction and the train station. Hsueh sees this as the next major issue the town should take up. He told me he has a vision of the land becoming a ''transit village'' that mixes residences with shops and offices in a bicycle- and pedestrian-friendly area -- a last-chance attempt to create a nucleus for a town that has been sprawling for the past 30 years and now has no center. In his view, the blank space also presents an opportunity to look ahead 10 or 20 years. Hsueh thinks West Windsor will desperately need affordable apartments in the face of prohibitively expensive housing. ''Then our children can move back here,'' he said. 
 The big builders I spoke with aren't as averse to the prospect of creating traditional, mixed-use neighborhoods as you might expect. At the Toll Brothers offices one recent morning, I sat down with Zvi Barzilay, Toll's president and a former Philadelphia city planner who holds a master's degree in urban planning from Harvard. He is well versed in every kind of design idea. Barzilay, like Bob Toll, seems irritated by the charge that home builders are somehow responsible for sprawl or cookie-cutter developments. In his view, Toll Brothers merely responds to market demand while adhering to zoning ordinances that exclude commercial stores from residential projects and mandate big lots and wide streets. A Toll Brothers development in Virginia recently flaunted urban-style homes, with garages in the back, Barzilay pointed out. And the company is enormously proud of an attractive, high-density condo complex it just built in a San Francisco suburb. ''There are some buyers who love to live in this kind of environment, because of the dream of socialization and the next-door neighbor,'' Barzilay said. ''But I think it is only suited for a certain type of buyer and not for others.'' Most people, he added, would say, ''Give me my one acre, and I want to have my privacy.'' And most counties or towns, Barzilay remarked, seem to show little inclination to alter their zoning rules -- the way that Mayor Hsueh intends -- to achieve high-density, mixed-use developments. While Barzilay would relish the possibility, both for the sake of company profits and social practicality, of building denser developments, for the most part he said he didn't think it was feasible. 
 You have to wonder what could change this state of affairs. When New Jersey is closed to new business? When the Los Angeles metro area hits the San Gabriel Mountains and developers no longer have any big parcels left? Robert Lang of Virginia Tech recently took a look at other thriving towns he calls ''boomburbs'' -- places like Scottsdale, Ariz., and North Las Vegas -- and predicted that more than half will be built out under the current pattern of land consumption by 2020. Such eventualities don't automatically mean a dismal future. On the contrary, a city bound for build-out might force developers to make better use of its remaining acreage. Or it could encourage developers to use open lots, transform defunct shopping malls, convert old industrial space -- typically the case in New York, where Toll happens to be in the process of acquiring several such places -- and fill them with housing. Lang predicts some cities (Arlington, Va., for instance, and Lakewood, Colo.) will improve after build-out. ''It all depends on how you manage the pattern of growth,'' he says.
 Still, there remains the darker possibility that the current building boom will do many things -- or has already -- that can't ever be undone. Robert Yaro, president of the New York-based Regional Plan Association, notes that it is enormously difficult to get in front of a boom market and plan intelligently. Development moves too fast; the patchwork of municipalities can't coordinate. Yaro told me he predicts that there will be 18 million more residents in the Northeast by midcentury; the national population will grow by 140 million. ''If we accommodate the next 140 million Americans the way we accommodated the last 20 or 30 million,'' he says, ''we would urbanize three times as much land as we have over the past 200 years. We can't afford to do that.''
 In many regions of the country, Yaro points out, there exist large-scale plans to shepherd the growth of the megalopolises and the megatraffic that all these new Americans will create. For all his optimism, Bob Toll, for one, has his doubts. He doesn't seem to think that forceful regional plans can be implemented in the current culture of Nimby politics, where townships, especially in the Northeast, have far more authority over development than counties or states. ''That is the answer,'' Toll says, ''but it can't be done, unfortunately. In order for you to take power for zoning and planning and put it in a regional council, you would have to take the power from the township. It'd be the last move you ever made in politics.'' The larger and more powerful the regional council, Toll says, the better it would be. ''You would get something that makes a lot more sense'' than the development we're getting today. The $4 million house in an older suburb, in other words. Or the newer (and cheaper) one-acre house in the most remote exurbs.
 One Monday evening in July, I saw why. As 11 p.m. approached, I sat in Toll's office as he and Barzilay debated whether to bid on some ground that would cost roughly $30 million. It was in the Washington area, but far from the city. Toll studied a list of what comparable houses, built by Toll's competitors, were selling for nearby. ''Look at these prices,'' he exclaimed. ''At the end of the world, these prices.''
 How far was the commute to D.C.?
 ''An hour and a half,'' Barzilay replied.
 ''Yeah, at midnight,'' Toll said.
 Toll took out a local road map and unfolded it on his glass-topped table. He began to trace roads with his finger. He didn't like what he saw. There was only one highway to D.C.; in the other direction, wilderness. Drawing his finger through the Shenandoah Valley, he mused on Robert E. Lee's troop movements. ''The only other way out, right into the Shenandoah.''
 Toll frowned.
 If they went ahead with the purchase, you could imagine fairly easily what would take shape a few years from now: an expertly landscaped Toll Brothers development with a thousand well-built, gleaming new homes suitably styled to satisfy regional tastes. There would be meandering streets and cul-de-sacs. The community would be far from the city -- indeed, far from anything.
 Then again, the land deal was here on Toll's desk, right now, and it might not be available next year. If Toll didn't build it, someone else probably would.
 ''Let's study it a little more,'' Toll finally said, staring at the map for a long while. He still had a few days to decide. ''It does have possibilities, and this market is so hot. But I need to know a little more.''
 He looked up and his face brightened. ''What do we got next?'' he asked Barzilay.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Suburban Planning: The Toll Brothers site layout for the Estates at Princeton Junction.
Little Boxes, Big Plans: The weekly meeting at Toll Brothers headquarters in Horsham, Pa., when executives report on how much land is being acquired (the answer is ''never enough''). At right: The product.
Just as It Was Drawn Up: The actual Estates at Princeton Junction, which bears a striking similary to the site on Page 47.
 Don't Call It a McMansion: ''Estate home'' is the preferred term. Daily life at the Estates at Princeton Junction. (Photographs by Tim Davis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TEST MARKETING (66%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (64%) Housing

ORGANIZATION: Toll Brothers Inc

PERSON: ROBERT I TOLL (89%) Jon Gertner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005



362 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; ALL CONSUMING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: To Prove You're Serious, Burn Some Bridges 

BYLINE: By David Leonhardt

 BODY:
WITH good reason, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences spent a lot of time alluding to apocalyptic nuclear war when it awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science last week and never got around to mentioning local movie theaters or phone plans.
 The prize winners -- Robert J. Aumann and Thomas C. Schelling -- are arguably the only Nobel laureates who can claim to have helped preserve the human race. Their work on game theory during the cold war showed that it was not enough for the Americans and Soviets to be able to destroy each other.
To avoid war, each side had to understand the other's power and know that a preemptive attack could not prevent a counterattack. Weapons were actually more important to protect than citizens. Destruction had to be both mutual and assured. 
 But the basic insight -- that lending credibility to a threat or promise often is not as easy as it seems -- has a lot to say about dozens of other matters more mundane than the cold war. If anything, the idea plays a larger role in today's economy, when many transactions are faceless, taking place online or on the phone, than when Professors Aumann and Schelling were making names for themselves in the 1950's.
 ''This permeates life,'' Mr. Schelling said by telephone from Maryland last week. ''I find it important in dealing with children, dealing with spouses, dealing with neighbors, dealing with customers.''
 The biggest problem with making an effective threat is that backing out can be so easy. In fact, it can often be less painful than making good on the threat. Three-year-olds have a particularly keen understanding of this, which is why a piercing scream has defeated many an effort at vegetable feeding.
 Mr. Schelling, in writings famous for their charming examples, explained how people could make their word seem credible. Some ways are formal, like a cellphone contract. Others are less obvious.
 These subtler methods usually involve something that seems rather strange on its face: people taking steps to restrict their own options. In effect, they are removing choices that they fear they might later make -- and sending a message to their antagonists.
 The ancient Greek historian Xenophon, who earns a footnote from Mr. Schelling, argued that putting an army in a corner might improve its odds of victory. The enemy would then know that retreat was not an option.
 ''Nay, if the result of crossing is to place a difficult gully behind us when we are on the point of engaging,'' Xenophon wrote, ''surely that is an advantage worth seizing.''
 More than two millennia later, the Truman administration asked Congress to put seven military divisions in western Europe to prove that the Americans truly would treat a Soviet attack on an ally like an attack on the United States, noted Mr. Schelling, a professor emeritus at the University of Maryland.
 ''The question was asked, 'What can seven divisions do to stop a Soviet attack?''' Mr. Schelling said. ''And the answer very explicitly was: They can guarantee that if the Soviets attack and kill or capture 300,000 Americans, the war won't end there.''
 By explaining what was really going on in situations like these, Mr. Schelling gave people a better grasp of their own instincts. With this self-knowledge, they could react even when the stakes were not quite life and death. 
 In Hollywood, the science of credible threats has allowed for the maneuvering behind movies' opening dates. The best example might be ''Independence Day,'' the 1996 blockbuster that scared other big films away from opening on the lucrative July 4 weekend.
 With that title, 20th Century Fox forced itself to stick to its plan or risk humiliation, noted Edward Jay Epstein, the author of ''The Big Picture,'' a study of the movie business. Other studios believed the commitment and cleared a path for what became a huge opening weekend.
 The Vanguard Group and other mutual fund companies have given investors a similar ability to make commitments to themselves and avoid bad habits. Vanguard recently started a program that allows people to commit to increase the amount of income they save in future years. 
 Eschewing an iPod Nano to save a little money right now is not so easy. But agreeing to give up some undefined future purchase seems less painful. Once the money is put into a retirement account, it is difficult to remove it for next year's toy.
 Along the same lines, Bank of America debit card customers can agree in advance to round up their purchases to the next dollar, putting the extra cents into a savings account, noted Susan Skeath, co-author of a textbook on game theory that the Swedish Academy cited as a good introduction to the winners' work.
 As Barry Nalebuff, a game theorist at Yale, says, these are tricks that limit options and back people into doing what they really want to do but are afraid they will not. 
 The work of Mr. Aumann, a professor at Hebrew University, built the mathematical architecture supporting much of modern game theory, and it is often highly technical. But he also pointed out that when companies or people engage in repeated competitions, cooperation becomes a lot more common.
 Movie studios planning opening dates come to understand each other and usually figure out when to yield. But the telecommunications upstarts of the late 1990's, largely doing battle for the first time, showed how making good on a threat can backfire.
 In the rush to be the first mover, they each built miles of fiber optic lines to intimidate rivals. It became a game of chicken in which no one swerved off the road, helping cause its own kind of crash, this one in the stock market. At least the overcapacity has made phone and Internet service cheaper.
 In hindsight, many of these ideas can seem a little too straightforward to be worthy of a Nobel and the $1.3 million that comes with the prize. But don't be fooled. Their simplicity is a big part of their elegance.
 ''Once Schelling said all this, everybody said, 'Of course,''' said A. Michael Spence, a Nobel laureate and a former student of Mr. Schelling's. ''But absolutely the best things in science and social science are the things that make everybody say, 'Why didn't I think of that?'''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lonni Sue Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); COLD WAR (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); HISTORY (78%); ARMIES (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); CLASSICS (66%); BURN INJURIES (60%); THEATER (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SWEDEN (91%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005



363 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA TALK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: ESPN Sports-Speak Is Increasingly Also Becoming Sports-Write 

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
To many sportswriters, scoring a touchdown in football has become ''taking it to the house.'' Hitting a home run has become ''taking it deep.'' And a hot young basketball player has become a ''diaper dandy.'' 
 According to a new survey of sports journalists by a doctoral student, ESPN is to blame. Scott Reinhardy, who is working toward a Ph.D. at the University of Missouri School of Journalism, surveyed 249 sports journalists gathered at the Associated Press Sports Editors Convention in 2004, focusing on the use of sports jargon in newspaper writing. He found a widespread acknowledgment that ESPN-speak has entered the common vernacular of newspaper sportswriting.
''Reporters don't write 'boo-yah,' but some of the language and style and tone does emulate what's on ESPN,'' Mr. Reinhardy said.
 Does Mr. Reinhardy like this trend? Oh no, he does not. ''I don't want to fight through cute phrases and puns and metaphors'' when reading the sports pages, he said, ''and when they don't work, they really fall flat.''
 The journalists who were surveyed indicated that even though sportswriters substitute casual vocabulary for traditional sports terms, they thought readers preferred conventional prose. 
 Mr. Reinhardy said he linked the rise of sports-speak to the fact that many younger sportswriters were reared on ESPN, which was founded in 1979.
 ''You really have to know what the terms and meaning are, or you can't read along anymore,'' Mr. Reinhardy said. ''You're going to exclude some people, and it's not necessarily good writing, either. There are people out there who don't watch ESPN or play pickup ball.''
 Another factor is that newspaper sportswriters tend to migrate to side jobs as ESPN commentators. Stephen Rodrick, a contributing editor at New York magazine, wrote in Slate in January that the newspaper sports column has become ''nothing more than a springboard, a gig that starts you on your way to becoming a multimedia star.'' Stephen A. Smith, a columnist for The Philadelphia Inquirer, is a regular on ''N.B.A. Nation,'' for example, and hosts ''Quite Frankly With Stephen A. Smith.'' Tony Kornheiser and Michael Wilbon, sports columnists at The Washington Post, also have a syndicated show on ESPN. 
 William Serrin, an associate professor of journalism at New York University, said the dominance of television over print explained the influence of ESPN style on the print media.
 ''The conversational idioms of television are spreading into American conversation,'' Mr. Serrin said. ''What's happened is that the language of television has become the language of America and the language of discourse.'' JULIE BOSMAN


CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Media Talk column of Business Day on Monday about a survey on the use of jargon in newspaper sportswriting misspelled the surname of the doctoral student who did the research. He is Scott Reinardy, not Reinhardy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Smith

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); BASKETBALL (78%); TRENDS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ESPN INC (92%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%); WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005



364 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: An Optimistic Voice for Deal on Farm Aid

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
Considerable progress toward a global free trade pact is possible at a December conference here, the director general of the World Trade Organization, Pascal Lamy, predicted Sunday, but he warned that many obstacles remained. 
 At two separate events, Mr. Lamy strongly praised a United States proposal to cut domestic farm subsidies, and he called on other countries to respond. His comments were especially striking because he was the European Union's trade commissioner until last year. Europe has the largest farm subsidies and has been skeptical of the United States offer. 
Japanese officials and some nongovernmental groups have also been cool toward the offer, but Mr. Lamy called it an important development.
 ''They made a step forward in recognizing U.S. farm programs will have to be reformed,'' Mr. Lamy said at a forum at Hong Kong University.
 The Hong Kong ministerial conference, to be held from Dec. 13 to 18, needs to accomplish ''two-thirds'' of the many agreements needed on agriculture, industrial tariffs and services, Mr. Lamy said later in a speech at the Foreign Correspondents' Club.
 Agreements are needed on how quickly to phase out agricultural export subsidies, he said, as well as on plans for requiring countries to accept more imports of farm goods and to reduce domestic subsidies.
 An agreement is also needed on how to curb cotton subsidies, Mr. Lamy added. United States cotton subsidies have increased global supply and are widely faulted for increasing poverty in poor cotton-growing countries like Mali.
 Finally, Mr. Lamy said that a deal was needed in December that would reduce tariffs on industrial goods and narrow the differences between various countries' tariff policies.
 Such an understanding is needed to clear the way for a final push to conclude a comprehensive deal, including an agreement on trade in services, among the 148 organization member nations by the end of next year, he added.
 A deal must be finished by then to allow time for approval by Congress under current rules for quick passage of trade pacts with few amendments allowed; these rules expire on July 1, 2007, and are unlikely to be renewed in the current political climate, Mr. Lamy said.
 Senior European and American negotiators are expected to meet in Geneva this week to discuss the latest United States proposal along with a more modest European proposal. They will seek to break a deadlock on agricultural issues that had brought momentum in the trade talks to a crawl until last Monday.
 The United States last week offered a 60 percent reduction in a range of domestic farm subsidies if the European Union would reduce subsidies and allow greater access to its agricultural markets, through higher quotas on farm imports and lower tariffs.
 When trade ministers from the world's biggest trading nations met in Zurich last Monday to review progress in the talks, known as the Doha Round, the breakfast room was buzzing with discussions about the proposal, said John Tsang, Hong Kong's secretary for commerce, industry and technology, who attended the gathering.
 ''For a change now, we have real numbers on the table, and people are exchanging numbers instead of rhetoric,'' he said in an interview. ''Once you start talking numbers, you can come to a middle ground.''
 Protests marred the organization's ministerial conferences in Seattle in 1999 and Cancun, Mexico, in 2003, and are expected here in December. Mr. Lamy had a taste of the protests when demonstrators blocked his car from leaving an afternoon speech at Hong Kong University. One protester climbed onto the vehicle.
 Mr. Lamy defused the confrontation by getting out of his car and accepting a petition from the protesters. Afterward, Mr. Lamy said that years of experience had taught him that in such encounters, ''You have to go as near as possible to the people who want to punch you.''
 The incident revived questions of whether Hong Kong was ready to host the event. Few police officers were visible at the university event. But a Hong Kong police spokeswoman said Sunday night that officers had been deployed, and noted that an officer had helped persuade the protester on Mr. Lamy's car to climb down; no arrests were made.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COTTON FARMING (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); AGRICULTURE (72%) Agriculture; Crop Controls and Subsidies; International Trade and World Market; Agriculture

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%) World Trade Organization; European Union

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (92%) Pascal Lamy; Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); JAPAN (79%) Hong Kong; Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005



365 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: One Building as Microcosm of Life on a Silver Platter

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:

740 Park
The Story of the World's Richest Apartment Building
By Michael Gross
 Illustrated. 561 pages. Broadway Books. $26.95.
 The research for ''740 Park,'' Michael Gross's history of one rarefied Manhattan apartment house, required the use of the New-York Historical Society's archives of reverse telephone directories, which list residents by address. That was one way to determine who had lived at 740 Park Avenue.
Identifying these people was a difficult task, since some had strong penchants for privacy. One of Mr. Gross's sources requested anonymity for having said nothing more treacherous than ''it was a very, very big apartment, the fanciest in the building'' and ''there were two huge living rooms facing Park Avenue, with unbelievable, spectacular views.'' The book's jacket breathlessly exploits such discretion by touting the building as ''the kind most of us could only imagine, until now.'' 
 In light of the social moat over which it clambers, the book attaches a disproportionate sense of victory to merely naming names (at least three per person) and serving up thumbnail family histories (one involves a Missy, a Muffy, a Mugsy and a Manu). But such a relentless litany of details can have the monotony of a laundry list. Or it would, if it listed people who did their own laundry.
 ''740 Park'' likes lists. It measures rooms, counts closets, ticks off amenities (''a large silver vault in each kitchen'') and provides price tags, not only for the apartments but for their decorative flourishes. (Eighteenth-century rose damask curtains in 1931: $1,285.) The only architectural feature to which Mr. Gross devotes little time is the window. But windows figure in this book anyway because the reader's nose is pressed so hard against the glass.
 The voyeurism is so giddy that ''740 Park'' sometimes feels like an extended feat of free-association. The description of an apartment can lead to the owner's house in Newport -- and off we go to European chateaus, Palm Beach, grouse hunting, the Princeton varsity crew team, Qing dynasty watercolors, horse farms, private railway cars and armies of servants. ''Their driver, who was called Mortling,'' is included among one family's assets. The Long Island ''typical New England white frame farmhouse'' of another had 65 rooms, a skeet range and an English gardener.
 The curb appeal of all this is clear. The reader's role is that of designated ogler; the writer's job is to celebrate wealth, trace bloodlines back to the Mayflower and savor schadenfreude. Part of ''740 Park'' is just a shelter magazine virtually devoid of pictures (an egregious omission, given its interest in curtains). Part of it describes the merry squandering of fortunes. Part is devoted to marital discord, divorce settlements and the provisions of wills. Outside the work of Edith Wharton or Jane Austen, it's rare to find such brazen speculation about exactly what people are worth. 
 The design and construction of 740 Park Avenue, which opened in 1930, and the early role of John D. Rockefeller Jr. in the building's history ought to be among this book's most interesting phases. But Mr. Gross seems inhibited by this era's remoteness. So his account begins stiffly, enlivened by the occasional patrician who ''always wore a hat and gloves and loved gardenias and angel food cake.'' The offspring of such residents, when interviewed, tend to say that the place was ''very darn big,'' that ''everyone loved Popsy'' and that Mother was a corker.
 The book grows livelier once conflict arrives. To the extent that Mr. Gross has an overarching story, it concerns the changing demographic and economic realities that have made 740 Park a mirror of its times. And he describes how this once-homogeneous white Protestant enclave began to change (or erode, in the opinions of some principals), initially with the arrival of Jews and later with such figures as an ''Ecuadorian banana king.'' In recent years, the building has had at least one tenant who liked to say about ancestry: ''Yours came on the Mayflower? Mine flew the Concorde.'' The book is handily divided into sections named for its favorite topic -- money -- in different forms: ''Old,'' ''Oil,'' ''New,'' ''Borrowed,'' ''Other People's.'' Because it happens to have two entrances and thus two addresses, the building's split personality also helps Mr. Gross create a semblance of structure. Showier residents like the Park Avenue address: the jet-set party hostess who brought in flamenco dancers was one of these. Quieter types, like the Nixon supporter who would calm down by squeezing a ball of putty whenever she heard the word ''Watergate,'' preferred the quieter 71 East 71st Street doorway.
 Although ''740 Park'' means to entertain the reader with a steady stream of gossip, some of its stories have been exhaustively covered elsewhere. The courtly Junior Rockefeller, the rakish Black Jack Bouvier (the father of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and Lee Radziwill) and the financier-showoff Saul P. Steinberg loom large here. Some of the book's lower-profile figures -- the kinds who wax their leather-bound books or use words like ''restive'' and ''captious'' when complaining about noisy construction work -- pique more curiosity. 
 Mr. Gross has done a good job of locating these people, but only a middling job of bringing them to life. Perhaps that's a function of the book's embarrassment of riches. In company like this, the Duke of Windsor receives only a modest parenthetical description (''the former king of England''). Unlike Tony, Pony, Lulu and Doris Duke, he doesn't even make the index. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Gross (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (78%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (72%); FAMILY (71%); TRAINS (60%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); NORTHEAST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005



366 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Architects Ponder Rebuilding Of Biloxi

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

DATELINE: BILOXI, Miss., Oct. 14 

 BODY:
It's like the Three Little Pigs fable, said Stefanos Polyzoides, an architect from Pasadena, Calif. If you rebuild hurricane-flattened houses out of brick, they will have a better chance of withstanding any repeat of the 30-foot surges that churned this city into what looks like a war zone today. But brick is expensive. And it does not necessarily reflect the wood-porch aesthetic that Gulf Coast residents so treasure.
 This and other questions of form and function -- from how many stories houses should have to how far casinos should penetrate the downtown -- were debated during a daylong tour of Biloxi by a group of architects and planners as part of a rebuilding forum this week in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. 
The remainder of the some 200 professionals who gathered here, including regional planning and environmental teams, went off to survey other coastal areas -- Ocean Springs and Pascagoula to the east and Gulfport, Long Beach, Pass Christian and Bay St. Louis toward New Orleans and the west. 
 Armed with box lunches, the Biloxi troupe boarded a bus in the morning. First stop: City Hall. ''We need to get housing back, businesses open, people working,'' Mayor A.J. Holloway of Biloxi said. 
 Asked what he imagined would emerge from the forum, Mr. Holloway said: ''I hope some good ideas. Because I've got a lot of problems.''
 George Lawrence, the councilman for the First Ward, asked the group to keep the waterfront needs of the shrimping industry in mind. Leland Speed, of the Mississippi Development Authority, said there was tremendous time pressure to avoid haphazard real estate development and speculation. ''We've got to do this fast, before other plans are gelled,'' he said. ''The two big things we need on the Mississippi Coast are housing and hope.''
 The mayor joined the tour for the duration of the day. He led it through the downtown area, with stops at the damaged town green, where the city's Mardi Gras parade concludes; historic tourist sites like the flooded Magnolia Hotel and Mary Mahoney's Old French House restaurant, now a shell, though an ancient live oak nearby survived. 
 Mr. Polyzoides said the downtown's proximity to the waterfront hotel strip presented a significant opportunity. The city should move away from ''vast, dead buildings'' like the federal courthouse, the architect said, and bring in a variety of retail ''to make active ground floors.'' 
 ''Main Street needs to be ripped out and recast as a serious walkable main street,'' he added. ''There's so little left.''
 Next, the group drove to Eagle Point in the Woolmarket area, north of downtown, where wealthy homes lining the Biloxi River are now mere skeletons. A couple of pleasure boats were visible, tossed high on a nearby hill. ''I venture to say everyone will build back here,'' the mayor said.
 The neighborhood clearly illustrates a post-hurricane puzzle: Should houses be built three stories high so water can rush through a ground floor devoted to storage and garage space? It's an unusual height for a single-family home, said Elizabeth Moule, Mr. Polyzoides's wife and business partner. It could result in ''mansionizing everything in the area,'' she said. 
 Mr. Polyzoides, who said Woolmarket suffered from ''old-fashioned sprawl,'' speculated about creating more density as both a protective and revitalizing measure. ''I wonder what would happen if you had an Italian or French village here, with 400 homes close together,'' he said. But owners of one- to three-acre plots tend to resist living close together, he added; they want independence and privacy. For their part, developers prefer selling larger tracts at a time.
 The group also visited a school; Keesler Air Force Base, to the north on the bay side; Beach Boulevard, or Route 90, the coastal highway that is now an eerie strip of devastated casino hotels; and Howard Avenue, a poor area a block or two north of Beach Boulevard, where the houses now look like heartbreaking piles of pickup sticks.
 After a break for dinner, the Biloxi group met to confer. ''The big question is, What do we do?,'' Ms. Moule said. ''We need to establish what we're going to work on.''
 Over the next two and a half hours, the participants grappled with priorities: neighborhood rezoning, downtown, museums and culture, casinos, beachfront, road system, building codes, transit development.
 They knew they could not do it all, but it was hard not to try. The topics addressed were literally all over the Biloxi map. David J. Hardy, of Guild Hardy Architects in Biloxi, said the emphasis should be on low-income housing: ''Howard Avenue, Howard Avenue,'' he said.
 Ms. Moule said the group should try to figure out how to make the Air Force base a more integrated part of the city. ''I say we treat Keesler like a campus -- we make a town-gown relationship to Keesler,'' she said. ''We need to think about a concentrated retail area where these people walk off the base and start to spend some of their dollars out in the town, and we take that economic energy. I think that's a huge opportunity.''
 Walter Bolton, a Biloxi architect, countered that people who work on the base don't have that much money to spend. 
 The talk turned to how to transform the beachfront strip into something closer to the French Riviera and whether to establish a stronger north-south artery connecting Biloxi to Interstate 10 to the north. 
 As the planners scribbled on large maps spread out on tables, envisioning bright casinos, quaint homes, charming streets -- a vibrant and healthy city -- it was almost possible to forget the eviscerated landscape they had traveled through all day. 
 But Mr. Polyzoides said he was still trying to adjust to what his eyes had taken in. ''I haven't seen destruction like this my entire life,'' he said. ''The nature of this devastation is completely overwhelming. It's a tremendous task to bring back neighborhoods. They need to be brought back one building at a time.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: More protection with brick? A house on Howard Avenue in Biloxi. (Photo by Robin Pogrebin/The New York Times)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (87%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); PARADES & MARCHES (70%); MARDI GRAS (69%); RESTAURANTS (67%); HISTORIC SITES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MISSISSIPPI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BILOXI, MS, USA (95%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005



367 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5740 words

HEADLINE: At a Bronx Clinic, High Hurdles for Medicaid Care

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Atop a rise on Burnside Avenue in the Bronx, the Morris Heights Health Center looms above a bustling stretch of storefronts offering arroz con pollo and cheap clothes. The clinic is a crucial medical safety net for tens of thousands of people, many of them struggling. 
 It is a place of solace and deliverance and, just as often, futility and frustration, much of it linked to Medicaid, the government insurance program for the poor.
Every day, the clinic sees patients like Crystal T. Shuler, a single mother who has been a Medicaid client several times -- and has seen her insurance cut off just as often, for reasons she does not grasp. She comes to Morris Heights, pregnant and without care for months, to make her third recent attempt to enroll. Her first application was rejected for minor mistakes; on her second try, she did not have all the documents she needed to satisfy New York State. 
 There are also people like Ronald Shinnery, asthmatic and struggling for breath, who embodies an uncomfortable reality for Morris Heights and other communities served by Medicaid: He can be his own worst enemy, ignoring basic paperwork until, for the second time, his insurance expires and his medicine runs out.
 Dr. Tomasz Howard's examination of a fifth-grade girl lays bare another chronic problem. He has to explain to her parents that she has an irregular heartbeat, but cannot see a cardiac specialist for almost half a year. New York pays specialists poorly to participate in Medicaid, and many refuse Medicaid patients.
 Sixteen months spent inside Morris Heights, listening to patients, clerks, nurses, doctors and administrators, provides a stark education in Medicaid as it is lived at coarse, unpredictable ground level. Those months illuminate Medicaid's sprawling good works, and how they are undermined by inscrutable rules, daunting paperwork, human frailties and, plainly, the puzzling ways New York spends the program's billions of dollars.
 For the people who turn to Morris Heights and Medicaid for care, and for those at the clinic who labor to help them, Medicaid's faults and handicaps boil down to three fundamental, dispiriting truths that strike at the heart of its lofty ambitions:
 People like Ms. Shuler have trouble getting health care through Medicaid because they do not understand the system, especially the enrollment process. That is one reason about one million eligible New Yorkers are not in the program, according to researchers. New York has recently made enrollment easier, yet it still demands more extensive documentation from applicants than any other state, requirements that can thwart qualified people and, according to experts across the political spectrum, do little to prevent fraud.
 Patients like Mr. Shinnery often neglect their care -- a failure of responsibility for some, and for others a symptom of lives so chaotic that receiving mail is no sure thing. They disregard paperwork or wait until they are seriously ill to apply; others skip appointments, tests and medications.
 Many doctors, particularly specialists, shun patients like the girl with the heart problem, in part because New York ranks at or near the bottom among the states in what it pays doctors to treat people on Medicaid. For a large class of patients, New York pays a specialist $24 for an office visit, the lowest of any state, while poorer states like Mississippi, West Virginia and North Dakota pay well over $100, and Medicare in New York City and its suburbs pays around $200. Medicaid patients at a clinic like Morris Heights thus hunt endlessly for specialists for ailments like diabetes, heart disease and mental illness.
 A legacy of Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society, Medicaid promises that poverty need not consign Americans to live without medical care. It insures more than 50 million people, half of them children, at some $300 billion a year and rising fast.
 New York runs the nation's most extravagant Medicaid program, paying $44.5 billion per year to care for 4.2 million people -- roughly double, per patient, what the rest of the country spends -- and state officials boast that it makes a higher percentage of people eligible, and for more services, than almost every other state. But if the program is huge and in many ways generous, those who work with it -- doctors, patients, government officials, health care experts -- say that the way the dollars are spent makes little sense.
 The program -- which consumes more than one-third of the state budget -- is vulnerable to fraud and abuse by unscrupulous providers, wasting billions of dollars annually, experts and government officials say. But New York does less than other states to police payments to hospitals, nursing homes and ambulette companies, or to prosecute the guilty.
 And yet, life at Morris Heights makes clear how keenly New York scrutinizes ordinary patients trying to get into Medicaid, in the name of ensuring that ineligible people cannot slip through. ''We do a better job than we'd do if we didn't have all of these requirements in place,'' said Dennis P. Whalen, executive deputy commissioner of the State Department of Health.
 But experts say that kind of cheating is a small part of Medicaid fraud. The problem, says Elisabeth Benjamin, former chief of health law at the Legal Aid Society, is that ''the state looks at each applicant as a potential criminal.''
 Yet the typical people striving to enroll in Medicaid are poor children and their mothers, clients who cost relatively little to cover. Children and able-bodied adults -- mostly women -- are about three-quarters of New York's Medicaid patients but account for about one-quarter of the expenses. Those costs pale next to what the state spends caring for disabled and elderly patients, who account for more than 70 percent of the spending -- partly because New York spends far more than other states on services like nursing homes, home care and hospitals, while scrimping on the most basic form of care, doctor visits.
 Devoting more effort to screening ordinary patients than to examining providers ''is pretty ludicrous,'' said Robert Goldberg, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative group critical of Medicaid. ''Where they're looking isn't where the major money is, or where the major fraud is.''
 But these are facts of life at Morris Heights, where Medicaid is both a daily life-saver and just so much wasted effort.
 After two decades in health care, much of that time tending to the poor and grappling with Medicaid, Anita Wilenkin, chief operating officer of Morris Heights, says the program's idealism too often goes unrealized. ''It makes things harder than they need to be,'' she says, and frequently, ''what's on paper, what it's supposed to do for people, doesn't get done in reality.''
 From a modest start in 1981 as the project of neighborhood activists, Morris Heights, a nonprofit, has grown into a mainstay of the area, almost as familiar as the Jerome Avenue elevated train that thunders by. This year, some 45,000 people -- the community is a mix of Dominicans and other Hispanics, African-Americans, and pockets of English-speaking Caribbeans, Cambodians, Africans and Arabs -- will push through its doors, making 150,000 visits. It has four main clinics, a birthing center and clinics in schools.
 Observed day after day, Morris Heights at once confirms stereotypes about the world of Medicaid and confounds them. The people who turn up and who benefit from Medicaid range from illiterate immigrants to college-educated professionals. Some patients grapple with drug addiction and H.I.V., while many have ailments no worse than the flu. Waiting rooms are noisy and crowded, but also immaculate, brightly painted and graced by skylights.
 Morris Heights sees its share of cheats, like the worker fired for demanding $75 from people for help with Medicaid enrollment. Enough patients sell H.I.V. drugs on a thriving black market that managers reproach doctors for simply believing patients who say they are infected.
 But by many measures, Morris Heights delivers better care to Medicaid patients than they would find in most places in the city, according to insurers, government officials and other doctors. There is a nighttime urgent-care clinic, a mobile clinic that visits homeless shelters, and H.I.V. programs that send workers to patients' homes.
 All of it, though, is a challenge. Employees talk of a deep commitment to serving the poor, but also complain about hard work with patients who frustrate them, in a Medicaid system they consider dysfunctional.

First, the Paperwork
 On a tropical summer afternoon, Agustin Colon, a 32-year-old with the muscular body of an athlete, shuffles like an old man into a storefront Morris Heights office, his asthmatic wheezing audible across the room.
 Mr. Colon, a Dominican immigrant, drops into a chair and explains in Spanish that an envelope arrived from the city, but, though it was in Spanish, he does not read well enough to decipher it. Then his Medicaid card stopped working at the pharmacy and he ran out of medication. He took the envelope to the clinic, and learned that it was his annual Medicaid renewal form; he had missed the deadline.
 Hugo Garcia, a Morris Heights employee, tells Mr. Colon that to apply again, he must collect papers proving his identity, income, assets, address and immigration status. Mr. Colon listens impassively, never removing his sunglasses, then shambles back into the heat. Mr. Garcia's co-workers wonder if he will come back any time soon.
 He returns hours later, hands full of papers, but still a few documents short. The next day, still laboring to breathe, he turns up with his papers in order. Mr. Garcia completes his application but warns that it will be weeks before he is insured.
 A daily parade of people passes through this office, struggling with the one essential demand Medicaid makes to get insurance and keep it: paperwork. Many fail to do it, or do it incorrectly or too late. Some think they have insurance but do not, some have it but do not know it, some lose it and some never get it. Patients like Mr. Colon cycle in and out of Medicaid, causing delayed treatment and duplicated work.
 ''The whole system is like a bunch of people trying to fill a bucket with a hole in it, working as fast as we can to pour new clients in the top, while they keep dropping out the bottom,'' said Maura Bluestone, president and chief executive of Affinity Health Plan, a health maintenance organization that participates in Medicaid.
 These are national problems, but groups that research Medicaid have studied them most closely in New York. At any time, more than one-fifth of the people eligible for Medicaid in New York are not enrolled, according to studies by the United Hospital Fund and the Urban Institute, liberal policy research groups. Experts have long estimated that 40 to 50 percent of New York's Medicaid patients lose their insurance yearly, often by failing to complete annual renewal forms, though most remain eligible and enroll again, months or years later. 
 That was once true, state officials say, but no longer. They say they cannot cite a current Medicaid drop-out rate, but contend that it has declined sharply in the last few years, as New York has made paperwork easier, and enrollment has grown. The state has abbreviated long applications, allowed community groups and H.M.O.'s to sign people up, and introduced renewal by mail.
 H.M.O.'s, clinics and policy researchers say that those changes have helped, but that serious problems persist. Several H.M.O.'s say about one-third of their Medicaid members still leave the program annually.
 When asked why such problems arise, in hundreds of interviews, patients, clinic workers, insurance executives, policy researchers and state officials replied with a complaint that could not be more consistent if it were rehearsed: Too many people who need Medicaid are bewildered by it.
 Of course, even people with private insurance can have trouble understanding its requirements, but getting Medicaid insurance is usually more complex, and must be repeated annually.
 People seeking Medicaid in New York must provide extensive documentation and fill out detailed applications -- paperwork that many have trouble even understanding, and that provides opportunities for mistakes. They find that Medicaid is really several programs within one, and often do not know which part they belong in. Many patients do not understand when their insurance begins and expires, or what their relationships are to the H.M.O.'s that oversee their care.
 Kathryn Kuhmerker, the deputy state health commissioner who oversees Medicaid, said such confusion was unavoidable. ''This is an extraordinarily complicated program, and I don't think that there's any way to simplify and still meet all the requirements'' set by the federal government and the State Legislature, she said.
 All states demand a great deal of information from applicants, but what sets New York apart are documentation requirements that policy researchers say are probably the most stringent in the country.
 While 14 states allow Medicaid applicants to state their incomes without documentation, and most accept one or two pay stubs as proof, New York demands four consecutive stubs or an employer's letter on company letterhead. The federal government says New York is one of just four states that require documentation of citizenship or immigration status from nearly all applicants. Researchers say New York may be the only state that does not simply require a Social Security number, but rather asks to see the card.
 Advocates for the poor say the rules are especially troubling because the state does not need most of the documentation: It verifies the claims on its own, through sources like government databases and bank records. The state already has some of the proof it asks people to produce, like tax returns and driver's licenses.
 State officials counter that the information they can verify independently is often out of date. And Mr. Whalen said, ''We would probably disagree that it's overly burdensome for people to produce vital records.''

Enrollment Confusion
 New York's basic Medicaid application, fairly typical of those around the country, is six pages, with another six of instructions. The questions are mostly reasonable, but the detail and complexity can trip up even experienced health care workers. The application, for example, delves into obscure areas like whether a friend helps with the rent, whether a renter pays for heat, and even what kind of heating fuel a home uses.
 For people who move frequently and often have little education, Medicaid's yearly renewal process is a particular burden -- even receiving and comprehending forms and letters that warn of impending deadlines can be an obstacle. Patients are required to tell the government if they move, but many are unaware of the rule and are knocked out of the program.
 Insuring all the eligible people who are not in Medicaid would cost a couple of billion dollars each year. But even most critics of the program do not accuse New York of a conscious attempt to save money by suppressing enrollment -- a charge that they and others have made against some other states. Rather, they say, the obstacles in New York reflect a broader ambivalence about aiding the poor.
 ''We think of Medicaid as a welfare program, so it's given grudgingly,'' said James R. Tallon, president of United Hospital Fund, a New York-based liberal research group. This is in contrast to views of Medicare, the federal health plan for the elderly, which is a widely accepted program used mostly by middle-class people, he said.
 A handful of states have tried simplified applications and found that enrollment rose sharply without a major increase in fraud. Federal regulators have found that in every state, care for ineligible patients accounts for less than 2 percent of Medicaid costs. People who study the program -- and not just those who advocate more services for the poor -- say that letting patients who do not belong into Medicaid is not a major problem. But they say that focusing on such people is politically safer than cracking down on cheating by hospitals, nursing homes and doctors, who wield great lobbying power in Albany.
 Mr. Goldberg of the Manhattan Institute says he believes that not many ineligible people enroll. ''I don't think there's any question that most of the fraud is provider-driven, not patient-driven,'' he said.
 Kemp Hannon, Republican chairman of the State Senate's Health Committee, added that even if ineligible people slip through and are treated for illness, ''the public health has been well served. Is that what you really want to worry about?''
 Mr. Whalen agreed that such fraud was minor, which he said ''speaks to the strength of the front-end part of the system, where we take a look at eligibility.''
 The last several years have given rise in New York to ''facilitated enrollment,'' a mini-industry of thousands of people at clinics and Medicaid H.M.O.'s who, without charge, fill out applications for people. Morris Heights has seven people doing this work in the office where Mr. Colon sought help, a converted convenience store a block from the main clinic.
 The acknowledged master is Theresa Solano, 51, a short woman with a wide grin and plenty of opinions. She has a striking memory for clients' names and problems, and for Medicaid's little wrinkles: how to get applications expedited, how to get expenses covered retroactively.
 ''These people we see, I've been where they are: immigrant, poor,'' she says. A native of Honduras, Ms. Solano married, raised three children and put herself through college while working jobs as a nightclub hostess and a union organizer. She offers patients a mix of sternness and sympathy, reassuring them about their health and lecturing them about meeting deadlines and teaching their children English.
 Her work tests the limits of patience, as when Diane Watson sits beside her on a summer morning, three small children in tow. The state computer says she was dropped from Medicaid and from the H.M.O. that managed her benefits.
 This is news to Ms. Watson, who insists that she never signed up for Medicaid. It is as if they were speaking different languages. Ms. Watson pulls a jumble of Medicaid and H.M.O. cards from her wallet and admits that she does not know what each one does, or what an H.M.O. is.
 On a rainy June morning, another patient, Brenda Johnson, 52, edges into the Morris Heights enrollment office, wide-eyed and trembling, and scans the faces there. Ms. Solano shoves aside a stack of papers and beckons the new client to her desk.
 Ms. Johnson speaks in a whispered rush. She has breast cancer and no insurance, she says, uncurling her fist to show $350 in medical bills she cannot pay.
 If she were insured, she says, the tumor would have been caught sooner, but she dropped out of Medicaid years ago, because ''I didn't understand the paperwork, and I wasn't sick, so I let it slide.'' She reapplied months ago, but nothing has happened.
 Ms. Solano taps into the state's Medicaid computer system and finds that, in fact, Ms. Johnson has been insured for two months and delayed treatment needlessly. As she explains, Ms. Johnson's face is a slide show of expressions, surprised to skeptical to perplexed to worried and back again.
 Someone, it turns out, has mistakenly put Ms. Johnson into the wrong Medicaid program. She is poor enough to qualify for a more generous part of Medicaid that would pay her recent medical bills, but this one will not.
 She shakes her head and says, ''I just don't know how I got this messed up.''

At Home, Turmoil and Apathy
 Susan Billinghurst, a physician's assistant, keeps a drawer full of mysteries she hopes to solve, suffering she hopes to avert.
 In the windowless exam room that doubles as her office, she hauls an armload of patient files out of that drawer, thumps them onto her desk and picks up the phone.
 Tests show that the patients, all women, may have cervical cancer, which can be fatal, or diseases like chlamydia that could make them infertile. But they do not know it.
 Morris Heights has sent letters and left phone messages, urging them to return. But months later, they have not learned what dangers they face, have not had follow-up tests, and have not been warned that they could infect others.
 Tracking them down could be a full-time job. Instead, it is something that Ms. Billinghurst, who works in gynecology and obstetrics, does whenever she has a few free minutes. Staff members say a large fraction of their patients never return for test results or follow-up treatment.
 ''How can you provide care when you can't find people?'' asks Ms. Billinghurst, a businesslike 36-year-old native of St. Vincent. ''They move, their phones get cut off, they don't get their mail, and they all have a lot of other problems going on.''
 ''But that's not the whole story,'' she adds. ''A lot of them just don't take responsibility.''
 Treating patients is a haphazard business when many live in turmoil or nonchalantly disregard their own well-being, and the Morris Heights staff members tell of countless examples. Patients turn up less with an air of entitlement than with a shrugging fatalism: Either things will work out, or they won't.
 Yanet Veras, 36, knows too well about chaos. An occasional Morris Heights patient, she has lived in the neighborhood for a few years, moving frequently, sometimes to her native Dominican Republic.
 She learns just before giving birth to her second child that she is H.I.V.-positive. A few months later, her husband is arrested for his role in a robbery. The family loses his meager income from odd jobs, and soon they stop getting welfare payments.
 Mrs. Veras can no longer afford her apartment, so she and Solangea, 3, and the baby, Jonathan, move in with a friend. Soon, they move to another friend's place.
 At some point in this tumult her Medicaid expires, but she does not notice, or remember receiving a renewal form. ''There was so much confusion,'' she says in Spanish.
 She applies to recover her insurance, but before it takes effect, she runs out of her H.I.V. drugs.
 Eventually, Mrs. Veras becomes one of Ms. Billinghurst's missing patients. Finally, in February, Ms. Billinghurst finds Mrs. Veras, who explains that she has been in the Dominican Republic and returns to the clinic for her test results.
 Others live with much less turmoil, and find it harder to blame forces beyond their control when they stumble. Some, like Maria Cuevas, concede matter-of-factly that they could have -- should have -- done more to solve their problems.
 On one visit, Ms. Cuevas, a single mother, says her 9-year-old son, Orosmar, went most of his life without health insurance, though she and her daughter had Medicaid. His birth certificate omitted his first name. She needed to go to court to register his name, but she says she put it off for years. Then Orosmar developed asthma. ''I couldn't get him medication because I couldn't pay for it,'' she says, ''so I did home remedies or I gave him some of his sister's medicine, which you're not supposed to do.''
 Morris Heights workers are torn between sympathy for these patients and frustration at their apathy. Patients are more likely to walk into Morris Heights unscheduled than to make appointments, and they keep only about half their appointments.
 Ralph Belloise, administrator of Morris Heights' H.I.V. programs, says the great majority of H.I.V. patients do not adhere to medication schedules well enough to make the drugs fully effective.
 When Ms. Billinghurst sets out to track down 15 of her missing patients, her first several calls yield two disconnected numbers, two that ring unanswered, and two answering machines. On the seventh try, success. ''Please come in today; this is important,'' she says. ''You're not busy. I promise I won't scold you anymore.''
 The day turns into a good one. Harsh weather means fewer patients, so she has time to call all 15 women, and she reaches two. Better yet, two women she called earlier in the week appear at her door.
 In late afternoon, a pregnant 18-year-old arrives. She tested positive for chlamydia months earlier.
 ''O.K., so now I'm here, so it's no big deal,'' she says.
 Ms. Billinghurst rolls her eyes. ''This is reality,'' she says. ''What can you do?''

The Search for Specialists
 Dr. Jadiyi Salim-Ortiz holds little Angel Perez's surgically reconstructed hand and smiles down at him, but she is fuming inside. Once again, she thinks, she must do bureaucratic battle to have him see the doctors he needs.
 Angel, almost 2 years old, was born with a hand that could barely grasp and ears that could barely hear. A series of operations offers hope, but his deformities are so rare that Dr. Ortiz believes they are beyond the range of the limited number of surgeons offered by the form of Medicaid he has.
 After some wrangling, Angel has gone to the hand surgeon Dr. Ortiz wanted, but now she learns that there is trouble getting him physical therapy to re-learn how to use the hand. And she predicts, correctly, that finding doctors to fix his ears will mean yet another struggle.
 ''This is the most frustrating part of a frustrating job,'' says Dr. Ortiz, 50, a Morris Heights pediatrician. ''Why do we have to fight to get these children to specialists?''
 A glaring weakness in Medicaid is that many doctors do not participate. In particular, hunting for specialists often means being turned away or waiting for months.
 Many doctors complain that the patients are unreliable, skip appointments and show up with expired insurance, but the most common reason doctors cite for refusing these patients is low pay by Medicaid. The problem applies to general practitioners seeing children with earaches, but it is most acute for specialists treating less common ailments, like seizures or kidney failure.
 For many years, New York ranked last in Medicaid payments to doctors, and even after sharply increasing some fees early in this decade, it still pays less than all but two states, according to a 2004 report by the Urban Institute and the Center for Studying Health System Change. They found that on average, New York's doctor fees were 45 percent of what Medicare paid for the same services. New York is also the only state that does not pay doctors more for complex examinations than for simple ones, or pay specialists more than internists.
 The disparity is most stark for specialists. For a moderately complex office consultation with a specialist, Medicaid in New York pays $24, the lowest of any state, compared with a national Medicaid average of more than $91, according to the Urban Institute. For the same visit in New York City, Medicare pays about $200, and private insurance generally pays somewhat more than Medicare.
 New York's low doctor fees make for a striking contrast in a state that spends more than most states for nearly every other kind of service. For each person enrolled in Medicaid, New York spends about two times the national average on hospital care, nursing homes and mental health facilities.
 Managed care was supposed to solve the doctor shortage in Medicaid. In the last decade, New York has moved about 60 percent of its Medicaid patients out of the traditional system of paying doctors directly for each service a patient received, and into H.M.O.'s that receive a monthly lump sum from the state for each patient. State officials predicted that the H.M.O.'s would pay doctors better than the state did, drawing more doctors into the system.
 It worked, but to a limited extent; the state says the number of specialists treating Medicaid patients through H.M.O.'s has risen 22 percent in seven years, but the number of patients has climbed faster. Those H.M.O.'s pay doctors much more than the state does, but it is still, on average, about 20 percent less than what Medicare pays. Just as important, many specialists do business with just two or three of the 20 Medicaid H.M.O.'s in New York City, making them off limits to the great majority of Medicaid patients.
 The result is that the oft-touted generosity of Medicaid in New York, the promise of world-class care, breaks down when confronted by the realities of Medicaid's structure and economics.
 The doctor shortage varies enormously from one specialty to another. ''Pediatric mental health is the worst,'' says Irwin Redlener, president of the Children's Health Fund, which provides care to poor children. ''There are a quarter of a million kids on Medicaid in New York City on waiting lists to see mental health specialists.''
 When Dr. Ortiz at Morris Heights sees that one patient, a 14-year-old girl, needs psychiatric treatment for depression, she finds that none is available. While waiting for an opening, the girl attempts suicide and enters a mental hospital.
 In the daily lives of places like Morris Heights and their patients, all of this translates into an exasperating pursuit of specialists, a chase best seen from a tiny office in Morris Heights' clinic at 183rd Street and Walton Avenue, where Angelina Ayuso tries to make specialist appointments.
 In August, a pediatrician finds the heart murmur in the 10-year-old girl on Medicaid, but cannot tell if the problem is minor or life-threatening. Ms. Ayuso calls Jacobi Medical Center, where a clerk tells her that the wait to see a cardiologist will be four months. 
 Later, Ms. Ayuso calls Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center for a middle-aged woman with a lump in her breast. She accepts a mammogram appointment three months away.
 A month later, things are worse. On Jacobi's appointment line, a recording tells Ms. Ayuso she will wait 100 minutes on hold.
 The occasional patient with commercial insurance ''is like a holiday,'' she says. ''It only takes a minute to get the appointment, I can do it online, we get the specialist we want and it's not way in the future.''
 Things are not so simple for Angel Perez, the boy at Morris Heights with malformed ears, and his parents, Dominga Rosario and Miguel Perez. Dr. Ortiz, the pediatrician, protests that the limited doctors available are not adequately qualified. She wants the H.M.O. to pay for him to see specialists who do not ordinarily see Medicaid patients.
 Angel was born missing the main bone in his left thumb, leaving it hanging useless. A somber boy, he has a habit of hiding the hand behind his back. His outer ears are just small lumps of skin that cover the ear canals, so he hears and speaks poorly.
 Angel, his parents and his two sisters live in a cramped, subdivided one-bedroom apartment near the Grand Concourse. The parents, Dominican immigrants, work long hours, Ms. Rosario in a beauty salon and Mr. Perez driving a livery cab. They have only a vague sense of their rights under Medicaid.
 But they have a formidable ally in Dr. Ortiz, a Paraguayan with a sense of righteous indignation, who is willing to cajole, shame and plead for her patients.
 An audacious operation could re-position his left index finger so that it functions like a thumb. After some haggling, Angel's H.M.O. relents, and agrees to pay for Angel to see a hand specialist at the Hospital for Special Surgery, in Manhattan. The surgery is a success, and Dr. Ortiz says Angel needs physical therapy immediately. But it all requires another round of calls, and two months pass before therapy begins.
 Dr. Ortiz wants Angel to see ear specialists, but this time, the insurer stands fast, and it sends the boy to its own doctors, who advise a five-year wait for ear surgery. ''Every month he cannot hear well, his speech falls farther behind,'' Dr. Ortiz says. There are more calls, more letters.
 Eventually, Medicaid officials agree to remove Angel from the H.M.O.
 Still, five more months go by before Angel sees a surgeon who might build him normal-looking outer ears. The family eventually moves to a bigger apartment and Dr. Ortiz leaves Morris Heights for another job, and everything gets put on hold.
 Indeed, a year and a half after his parents and Dr. Ortiz started trying to address his problems, Angel, now 3, still has not seen the inner ear doctor.
 ''It shouldn't be this hard,'' Dr. Ortiz says.
 So it goes at Morris Heights: part marvel, part misery. Medicaid can save a child like Angel from a life of isolation and limitation, but it promises to be a struggle each step of the way.

Program Disorder
 This article is the third in a series examining the security, effectiveness and cost of New York's Medicaid program, the largest of its kind in the nation and the state's biggest expense. The first two articles are online at www.nytimes.com/medicaid.

 Entire program: 1.93
Nursing facilities: 1.84
Prescribed drugs: 1.58
Dental services: 1.55

PAYMENT FOR OUTPATIENT SPECIALIST VISIT, ''MODERATE COMPLEXITY''
. . . but when it comes to Medicaid payments to specialists, New York ranks last among the states.

1. Alaska: $250
2. Del.: 164
3. Wyo.: 149
4. N.C.: 147
5. N.M.: 145
6. Iowa: 145
7. Ga.: 139
8. N.D.: 139
9. Md.: 137
10. Miss.: 134
U.S. Avg.: 91
41. N.H.: 78
42. Ill.: 71
43. Conn.: 71
44. Ohio: 70
45. Maine: 67
46. D.C.: 60
47. Penn.: 49
48. R.I.: 45
49. Mo.: 28
*50. N.Y.: 24

That New York Medicaid payment is about one-eighth what Medicare pays for the same specialist visit.

N.Y. Medicaid: $24
Medicare: 197

*Tennessee is excluded because it has only managed-care Medicaid

Portrait of a Clinic . . .

Morris Heights Health Center
A nonprofit organization, the health center operates four clinic buildings, several school-based clinics, and a mobile van-based clinic.

Founded: 1981
2002-2003 revenue: $24 million
Patients per year: 45,000
Patient visits per year: 150,000
Employees: 370
Percentage of paying patients on Medicaid: 65%

. . . And a Neighborhood

Population

White
 2000: 64,103
1980: 54,712

Black
 2000: 19.3%
1980: 25.1%

Hispanic (any race)
2000: 67.2%
1980: 53.1%

Foreign-born
2000: 37.9%
1980: 16.3%

Below poverty level
2000: 40.1%
1980: 47.9%

High school graduate (age 25 and older)
2000: 23.2%
1980: 27.3%

(Sources by Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services; Urban Institute; Morris Heights Health Center; U.S. Census data analyzed by the Queens College Sociology Department.)(pg. B4)

Map of Manhattan and the Bronx highlighting the location of the main clinic. (pg. B4)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Angel Perez of the Bronx, with his mother, Dominga Rosario, faces a five-year wait for ear surgery. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Treatment for Thousands -- At a Morris Heights Health Center pediatric clinic, Isiah Brown, 5, waiting with his grandmother for a physical so he can attend kindergarten. The center, on Burnside Avenue in the Bronx, serves 45,000 patients a year, many of them on Medicaid.
Navigating the Process -- Even Morris Heights employees helping Medicaid applicants turn to Theresa Solano for help with the complex forms.
Uphill Work, With No End in Sight -- Susan Billinghurst, a physician's assistant, spends her free minutes calling patients who have not returned for test results.
Comprehensive Care -- The waiting room of one of the center's pediatric clinics. Morris Heights, a nonprofit organization, has four main clinics, a birthing center and clinics in schools. It also has a separate office devoted to helping Medicaid applicants fill out their forms. (Photographs by ANDREA MOHIN/The New York Times)(pgs. B4, B5)
 The Health Connections van is a mobile outreach clinic. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B4)Chart: ''Spending Priorities''New York spends more than the national average on almost every category of Medicaid service . . .FOR EACH DOLLAR THE NATION SPENDS, PER BENEFICIARY, NEW YORK SPENDS:Home health care: $4.94Inpatient hospital: 2.38Outpatient hospital: 1.93

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (91%); RETAILERS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); BUDGETS (75%); SINGLE PARENTS (70%); ASTHMA (67%); CRIME PREVENTION (60%) Medicine and Health; Surveys and Series; Medicaid; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Frauds and Swindling; Doctors; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health

PERSON: Richard Perez-Pena

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005



368 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Atop Cowboys' Heads, A Lesson in Economics

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PENDLETON, Ore., Oct. 16 

 BODY:
In some parts of the country, a man can be judged by the cut of his suit or his designer tie. Here, in a town known for its rodeo culture, men size one another up by the quality of their cowboy hats.
 But good quality beaver and rabbit furs -- which are used to make felt for the hats -- are increasingly hard to find, making it more expensive to be a well-dressed cowboy.
 At the Stetson Hat Company in Garland, Tex., the cost of raw materials determines the bottom line, said Gary Rosenthal, a product development manager. ''And the raw material has gone up a lot,'' Mr. Rosenthal said. 
 At the high end, for hats starting at $800, the felt is made entirely of beaver fur. But at the lower end, for hats in the $250 range, the felt is often mixed with rabbit fur, mostly from Europe, where rabbits are raised for meat.
 The drop of the dollar against the euro has made even rabbit fur expensive for American hat makers.
 ''Two years ago, I used to be able to buy a kilo of rabbit fur for $2.20; now, it's $4.70,'' said Louis Pereira, owner of American Fur Felt, which is based in Newark and one of the last fur-cutting businesses in the United States. ''We have no choice but to pass the cost down'' to the hat industry.
 Chinese fur manufacturers have recently embraced rabbit as well as beaver for garments, pushing the bidding higher. And butchers are killing rabbits younger -- at six weeks, instead of two years. While the quality of the meat does not suffer, the fur does. ''The older the rabbit, the stronger the fiber,'' Mr. Pereira said.
 A final factor is the growth in popularity of white rabbits, whose fur is not as thick or as durable. 
 Compared with rabbit, wild beaver has always been expensive. But in recent years, the price has climbed even higher. In December 2002, wild beaver pelts averaged $14.86. A year later, the price rose to $17.96, and by December 2004, they averaged $20.02. The most recent figures, for May of this year, have beaver pelts selling for $21.20, according to Fur Harvesters Inc.
 Even hat makers who have the money to spend on the top-of-the-line pelts are finding that the best quality beaver is often ending up in the hands of foreign competitors.
 ''Russia and China have been gobbling them up,'' said Dean Serratelli, co-owner of the Serratelli brand, the No. 2 cowboy hat company after Stetson. ''The good raw materials are getting scarcer and scarcer.''
 The best quality fur comes from the beaver's underbelly, where the fur grows thick to protect the animal in the cold winter months. With winters around the world warmer than they have been in the past, the pelts are not as full as they were decades ago.
 ''It's a fact that if it's a warmer season, the fur is not as good quality,'' said Jack Kellogg, a custom hat manufacturer in Wichita, Kan., whose hand-crafted hats under the Hatman Jack's label are worn by a host of Western celebrities.
 ''One thing I've noticed with the bigger hat companies is to absorb some of the cost, they're toying with their mixes. It's very apparent,'' Mr. Kellogg said, referring to the practice of adding rabbit and even synthetic fibers to strengthen the felt.
 Customers say they have noticed the increase in price and decrease in quality. ''It used to be you could pay $30 for a hat, and it never leaked,'' said Bill McCoin, 55, a hired hand at a cattle auction here in Pendleton. ''Now you pay $300 and as soon as it clouds up, it leaks. I bought my best hat for my wedding. It was a real good hat: it outlasted my marriage.'' 
 Robert Vestring, 85, a cattle rancher in Burns, Kan., remembers walking into a hat shop in the 1970's and running his hand over a hat, soft as mink and supple. ''I looked at this fine felt hat, real thin, the best money could buy, and the owner said to me: 'When the hats I have here are gone, there won't be anymore.'''
 Mr. Vestring bought eight of them -- two for each of his three sons and two for himself. In 30 years, he says, he has never found any that come close in quality, and to this day, when he wears one of the fine hats, people take note.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Wallis shows off one of the finer hats at his store in Pendleton, Ore. The cost of fur has driven up the price of cowboy hats. (Photo by Don Ryan/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (89%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (89%); HAT CAP & MILLINERY MFG (89%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (78%); RABBIT PRODUCTION (77%); LEATHER TANNING & FINISHING (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (73%); EURO (67%) Hats and Caps; Cowboys and Cowgirls; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: STETSON HAT CO (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%) Pendleton (Ore)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005



369 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Monrovia Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: A One-Wheeled Semi Rules a Battered Capital's Roads 

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: MONROVIA, Liberia, Oct. 14 

 BODY:
Ask Moses Kollie what his job is and he answers not with a profession or a trade but with an object. 
 ''Wheelbarrow.''
''Pardon me?'' his questioner asks. 
 ''Wheelbarrow,'' Mr. Kollie, an 18-year-old grade-school dropout, replies, scowling. ''I have a wheelbarrow.''
 It is a simple technology almost as old as the wheel. But in a war-scarred city with no electricity or running water, where gasoline is sold from gallon-size mayonnaise jars stacked next to broken fuel pumps, the wheelbarrow is the cornerstone of the vast, informal economy. 
 That economy, with its complex and well-established pecking order of market matrons, shoeshine boys, kola nut hawkers and orange sellers, sustains almost everyone in a country where the official unemployment rate exceeds 80 percent. As Liberia struggles to put itself back on track after a decade and a half of brutal civil war, it is young men like Mr. Kollie who keep things moving. 
 The wheelbarrow has been so important to Liberia's development that it holds a prominent place in its seal, along with a shovel and a palm tree. A ship looms in the background, under the words ''The Love of Liberty Brought Us Here,'' a reference to the founding of this nation by freed slaves from the United States. 
 On Thursday, Mr. Kollie's wheelbarrow was laden with bars of cheap, harsh-smelling bath soap imported from China. He worked a busy corner in Red Light, an impoverished Monrovia suburb named for a traffic light that stopped working long ago. 
 ''Special today: soap $10, soap $10!'' he cried, hoping to drown out the competitors around him, who were selling everything from notebooks to women's sandals to batteries from their wheelbarrows. 
 At that price, about 20 cents in American money, he says he hopes to make about $5 for the day if he sells a decent number of bars, not a bad haul in a nation so poor it does not register on the United Nations human development index. Many Liberians live on less than a dollar a day. 
 Mr. Kollie bought his wheelbarrow for $25, used, raising the cash by selling anything he could find on a tray he built from scrap wood. Back then he made half as much money and, as he tells it, had half as much dignity. ''I don't want to sell with my hands,'' he said, gesturing with a tinge of superiority at a clutch of young boys selling plastic bags and rags. 
 In central Monrovia, Harris Kakulah controls a fleet of more than a dozen wheelbarrows, dispatching them to businesses all over the city to pick up sacks of cement, tanks of water and bushels of towels.
 On the capital's potholed streets, thousands of wheelbarrow operators jog along under punishing sun and pelting rain. Mr. Kakulah is the head of the local chapter of their union, the National Wheelbarrow Operator Union of Liberia, which has about 5,000 card-carrying members in Monrovia alone. He was a driver before war came in 1990, when the warlord Charles Taylor ousted President Samuel Doe. But work for drivers dried up as the war ground on and fewer cars plied the battered streets of Monrovia. 
 ''There was no job for me, so it was the easiest work I could see,'' Mr. Kakulah said.
 ''We call it a war car,'' he said of the wheelbarrow. ''We don't have any real cars.'' 
 During the long civil war, wheelbarrows played another role: that of ambulance, ferrying the wounded and dying to hospitals. 
 In peacetime, it is a highly organized business. The wheelbarrows are numbered and lettered, indicating their zones of operation, and the fees for certain kinds of loads are fixed. Getting a bag of cement from the port to central Monrovia costs about a dollar. Moving a load of used clothing, a popular market item here, from downtown to the suburb of Sinkor, about four miles away, costs $3.
 ''It is hard work for an old man,'' Mr. Kakulah said. ''If I get another job I'll leave my wheelbarrow tomorrow.'' 
 But for the young a wheelbarrow means opportunity. Many young wheelbarrow operators are former child soldiers who fought in the militias of the warlords who struggled for control of Liberia. Demobilized fighters were given cash grants for their weapons, and many used the money to buy wheelbarrows. 
 As the country slowly comes back to life, with the end of the war two years ago and elections Tuesday, wheelbarrow operators stand ready to do their part to rebuild. Like entrepreneurs everywhere, Mr. Kollie is looking to expand. 
 ''I would like to buy another wheelbarrow,'' he said. ''Because business is good.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A young vendor in Monrovia pushed his load past wheelbarrows marked with the initials of the National Wheelbarrow Operator Union of Liberia. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (74%); CIVIL WAR (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%); TOILET SOAPS (64%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (60%); TRENDS (60%) Wheelbarrows; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBERIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%) Liberia; Monrovia (Liberia)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005



370 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: The Sovereign People of Iraq

 BODY:
We won't know for sure until all of Saturday's votes are counted whether the seriously flawed constitution offered by Iraq's Shiite religious and Kurdish nationalist parties was accepted as a starting point for necessary amendments. Early signs pointed in that direction. Sunni Arabs, the group most skeptical of the new charter, seem to have turned out in far greater numbers than in January's parliamentary elections. But according to initial reports, significant numbers of them voted yes. 
 What we know already, and can't fail to be impressed by, is that large numbers of Iraqis of all persuasions turned out, in defiance of terrorist threats, to decide their constitutional future. They have exercised a basic democratic right that would have been inconceivable just a few years ago.
America remains the dominant military force in Iraq, but only Iraqis have the power and legitimacy to create a real nation out of the mutually antagonistic shards left behind by a fallen tyrant. It hasn't been, and won't be, easy. And while President Bush's supporters will portray the voting as a vindication of his policies, Washington's role in the Iraqi constitutional process has been decidedly mixed.
 By pressing Iraqis to adhere to arbitrary calendar deadlines driven more by domestic American political needs than the pace of Iraqi developments, Washington helped produce first, in January, a constituent assembly in which Sunni Arabs were drastically underrepresented and then, in August, a constitutional draft that slighted the rights of Sunnis, women and secular Iraqis. And by committing American forces to fight the Sunni insurgency on behalf of the ruling Shiite and Kurdish coalition, Washington left the governing parties with little incentive to produce a more inclusive document.
 It was only last week, facing a serious risk that disaffected Sunnis would turn out in large numbers to vote down the constitution, that Washington finally prevailed on the governing parties to agree to a formula for amending some of the constitution's major shortcomings in the months ahead. On that basis, a leading Sunni party, the Iraqi Islamic Party, courageously urged its supporters to vote yes. 
 If the constitution turns out to have passed, it will probably be because of this last-minute deal. That would oblige Shiite and Kurdish leaders to follow through by supporting inclusive amendments, including those reducing the excessive political and economic powers offered to the future autonomous regions these groups hope to establish.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); TERRORISM (55%) Editorials; Constitutions; Referendums; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005



371 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: The Big Squeeze

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman

 BODY:
In 1999 Delphi, the parts division of General Motors, was spun off as an independent company. Now Delphi has filed for bankruptcy. Its chief executive, Robert S. Miller, wants the company's workers to accept drastic wage cuts, from an average hourly wage rate of about $27 to as little as $10 an hour.
 There are a lot of questions about how Delphi and the auto industry in general reached this point. Why were large severance packages given to Delphi executives even as the company demanded wage cuts? Why, when General Motors was profitable, did it pay big dividends but fail to put in enough money to secure its workers' pensions? 
But Delphi's bankruptcy is a much bigger deal than your ordinary case of corporate failure and bad, self-dealing management. If Delphi slashes wages and defaults on its pension obligations, the rest of the auto industry may well be tempted -- or forced -- to do the same. And that will mark the end of the era in which ordinary working Americans could be part of the middle class. 
 There was a time when the American economy offered lots of good jobs -- jobs that didn't make workers rich but did give them middle-class incomes. The best of these good jobs were at America's great manufacturing companies, especially in the auto industry. 
 But it has been a generation since most American workers could count on sharing in the nation's economic growth. America is a much richer country than it was 30 years ago, but since the early 1970's the hourly wage of the typical worker has barely kept up with inflation. 
 The contrast between rising national wealth and stagnant wages has become even more extreme lately. In 2004, which was touted both by the Bush administration and by Wall Street as a year in which the economy boomed, the median real income of full-time, year-round male workers fell more than 2 percent.
 Now the last vestiges of the era of plentiful good jobs are rapidly disappearing. Almost everywhere you look, corporations are squeezing wages and benefits, saying that they have no choice in the face of global competition. And with the Delphi bankruptcy, the big squeeze has reached the auto industry itself. 
 So what are we going to do about it? 
 During the 1990's optimists argued that better education and worker training could restore the economy's ability to create good jobs. Mr. Miller of Delphi picked up that argument as part of his public relations campaign for wage cuts: ''The world pays knowledge workers far more than it pays manual, industrial workers,'' he said. ''And that's what's sweeping over here.''
 But that's a very 1999 sort of answer. During the technology bubble, it was easy to believe that ''knowledge workers'' were guaranteed good jobs. But when the bubble burst, they turned out to be as vulnerable to downsizing and layoffs as assembly-line workers. And many of the high-paid jobs that vanished when the technology bubble burst have never come back, partly because they have been outsourced to India and other rising economies. 
 Today, some of us like to stress the depressing effect of the dysfunctional American health care system on wages. A large part of the problem facing the auto industry and other employers that still provide good jobs is the cost of providing health insurance, both to their current employees and to retired workers. 
 If we had a Canadian-style system -- which is enthusiastically supported by the Canadian subsidiaries of U.S. auto companies -- the big squeeze might be averted, at least for a while. One more reason to be angry with auto executives is that they never threw their support behind national health care in this country, even though such a system is clearly in their companies' interest.
 What if neither education nor health care reform is enough to end the wage squeeze? That's the possibility that makes free-trade liberals like me very nervous, because at that point protectionism enters the picture. When corporate executives say that they have to cut wages to meet foreign competition, workers have every right to ask why we don't cut the foreign competition instead.
 I hope we don't have to go there. But denial is not an option. America's working middle class has been eroding for a generation, and it may be about to wash away completely. Something must be done.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); SEVERANCE PAY (71%); MEN (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%) Automobiles; Bankruptcies; Wages and Salaries; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Fringe Benefits; Labor; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Delphi Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005



372 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Get It Together, Democrats

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
A word of caution: Democrats should think twice before getting all giddy about the problems caving in on the Republicans and the prospects of regaining control of Congress in next year's elections.
 For one thing, the Democrats' own house is hardly in order. While recent polls have shown growing disenchantment with President Bush and the G.O.P., there's no evidence that voters have suddenly become thrilled with the Democrats.
A survey taken by the Pew Research Center showed an abysmal 32 percent approval rating for Democratic leaders in Congress. 
 Another thing to keep in mind is that Congressional redistricting (anti-democratic in every sense of the word) has made it more difficult to oust incumbents. It would take a landslide of shocking proportions for the Democrats to win control of both houses of Congress next fall.
 This is not to minimize the troubles facing the G.O.P. The party is in free fall. The war in Iraq has been a disaster and despite the vote on the constitution over the weekend there is no end in sight. The cronyism and incompetence of the Bush administration (''Brownie, you're doing a heck of a job'') have become a national joke, a given.
 Tom DeLay has been indicted. Bill Frist and his lawyers are answering subpoenas and preparing a defense for possible insider-trading charges. The White House is in a state of highest anxiety over the very real possibility that criminal charges will be brought against one or more of the most important people in the Bush administration. And conservatives have formed a circular firing squad over the Harriet Miers flap.
 It's no wonder the Democrats are gleeful.
 They should get over it, and get on with the very difficult business of convincing the public that Democrats would do a better job of governing a country that is already in deep trouble, and sinking deeper by the day.
 It's not enough to tell voters how terrible the Republicans are. (Leave that to the left-leaning columnists.) What Democrats have to do is get over their timidity, look deep into their own souls, discover what they truly believe and then tell it like it is.
 Give us something to latch onto. Where do we go from here?
 A friend reminded me recently of the old political adage that all campaigns are a battle between hope and fear. Ever since Sept. 11 President Bush and the G.O.P. have been pushing the nation's fear buttons for all they're worth. The public is frightened, all right -- about terror, about the consequences of the war in Iraq, about economic insecurity here at home, about the future of the United States. But there is no longer much confidence that President Bush and the Republicans are competent to deal with these tough issues.
 What the Democrats have to do is get off their schadenfreude cloud and start the hard work of crafting a message of hope that they can deliver convincingly to the electorate -- not just in the Congressional elections next year, but in local elections all over the country and the presidential election of 2008.
 That is not happening at the moment. While Americans are turning increasingly against the war in Iraq, for example, the support for the war among major Democratic leaders seems nearly as staunch and as mindless as among Republicans. On that and other issues, Democrats are still agonizing over whether to say what they truly believe or try to present themselves as a somewhat lighter version of the G.O.P.
 I wonder what Harry Truman would think about today's Democratic Party?
 Democrats need to put together a serious proposal for withdrawal of American forces from Iraq over a reasonable (which means reasonably short) period of time, and couple that with a broader national security plan that focuses on Al Qaeda-type terrorism and domestic security.
 Democrats need to tell the country the truth about taxes, about the benefits of investing in the nation's physical infrastructure, about the essential need to bolster public education from kindergarten through college, and about the shared sacrifices that will be necessary if anything approaching energy independence is to be achieved.
 They need to be optimistic and hopeful as they deliver their message to the country, explaining that all of these things are doable, that they will strengthen the U.S. in the short term and create a better future for the next generation and the one after that.
 Competence is essential, but it's not enough. The great voices of history have always been the voices of optimism and hope.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); REDISTRICTING (77%); INDICTMENTS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); SUBPOENAS (72%); LAWYERS (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (65%); LIBERAL MEDIA (64%); INSIDER TRADING (50%); WRITERS (50%) Election Issues; Reapportionment

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US); House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005



373 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: One Democrat Attacks While Others Switch Sides

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL and MIKE McINTIRE; Patrick D. Healy contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Seeking to portray himself as a champion of struggling New Yorkers, Fernando Ferrer attacked Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg yesterday for raising taxes and fees, and returned to the two-cities theme of his failed 2001 mayoral bid.
 But in a blow to Mr. Ferrer, several of his fellow Democrats, including the Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz, crossed party lines to endorse Mr. Bloomberg. The mayor also won the backing of the influential civic organization Citizens Union. 
The organization, founded in 1897 to address the corruption of Tammany Hall, does not make formal endorsements but rather expresses preferences for candidates, as it did for Mr. Bloomberg in 2001. In making the same selection this year, its leaders called the election an ''unprecedented opportunity'' for a two-term administration that can act in the public interest because Mr. Bloomberg, who is paying for his own campaign, ''owes no political favors to any special interest.''
 They also said the mayor had governed well, keeping many promises he made in 2001.
 Mr. Ferrer, appearing at City Hall with several elected officials, including a former rival in the Democratic primary, Representative Anthony D. Weiner, argued essentially the opposite point. Trying to paint Mr. Bloomberg as out of touch with ordinary New Yorkers, he said the mayor had promised not to raise taxes but then had pushed through a large property tax increase and had not explained how he would pay for new policy proposals.
 ''Mike Bloomberg has had four years to make some changes, and New Yorkers haven't seen much besides skyrocketing rent prices, one out of two kids dropping out of school and a mayor whose idea of a five-borough economic development plan is building a stadium for a wealthy team owner,'' Mr. Ferrer said.
 Mr. Ferrer produced a list of more than a dozen taxes and fees he said had risen on Mr. Bloomberg's watch, including income, sales, cigarette and property taxes, as well as the cost of using a cellphone, getting a copy of a marriage certificate, licensing a sidewalk cafe and parking at Shea and Yankee Stadiums.
 He would not say whether he would roll back any of those taxes or fees if elected mayor, although, after being pressed by reporters, he did say he would like to lower the sales tax.
 Stu Loeser, a Bloomberg spokesman, responded that the mayor's proposals would be paid for by money expected to come from the state and from private financing and so-called efficiency savings.
 ''Facing record deficits after 9/11 and the worst fiscal crisis in a generation, Mayor Bloomberg balanced the budget without cutting vital services,'' Mr. Loeser said. He added that the mayor had returned money to residents through property tax rebates and the rollback of the sales tax on some clothes and shoes.
 Mr. Loeser said that Mr. Ferrer had a controversial tax plan of his own, to impose a tax on stock trades, that Mr. Weiner repeatedly criticized during the primary.
 For Mr. Ferrer, who has tried to energize his campaign as polls have shown him far behind, it was a weekend to shore up black and Latino support, considered crucial to his chances. Although in this campaign he has largely avoided using the language of the ''two New Yorks,'' a theme that helped rally a coalition of black and Latino supporters in the 2001 primary but was called racially divisive by opponents, he directly invoked it yesterday at a predominantly black church in Queens.
 ''Someone asked me, 'Do you still believe that there are two cities?''' he said at the Presbyterian Church of St. Albans.
 ''With one out of five New Yorkers living in poverty, with half of our kids dropping out of high school, with 40 percent black male chronic unemployment, 33 percent Latino male chronic unemployment, how could you say otherwise?'' he continued, to audible agreement from the crowd.
 Mr. Bloomberg spent much of the day picking up endorsements from Democrats, including Mr. Markowitz, who had endorsed Gifford Miller, the City Council speaker, in the Democratic primary but appeared outside Borough Hall and planted a Brooklyn Dodgers baseball cap on the mayor's head.
 The endorsement was a highly orchestrated affair typical of the Bloomberg campaign. The mayor, who has spent close to $50 million of his personal fortune on his campaign so far, was asked why he is continuing to spend record sums when his opponent is struggling to raise a fraction of the total.
 Citing the difficulty of getting a message to all New Yorkers, he said, ''They listen to a variety of media, and you've got to use all of them.''
 Mr. Bloomberg also picked up endorsements from Councilman James Sanders Jr., a Queens Democrat, and the Rev. Lawrence Aker, minister of the Cornerstone Baptist Church in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SALES TAX (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TAX RELIEF (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); MARRIAGE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005



374 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 370 words

 BODY:

ESCAPE HATCH CLOSES -- In a country with a savings rate that has fallen below 1 percent, going broke just got a lot more painful. The new federal bankruptcy law took effect today, ending the stampede to the courthouse by debt-strapped individuals and businesses eager to apply for protection from creditors under the old, looser rules.

TURN OF CREDIT SCREWS -- Count Toshihiko Fukui, governor of the Bank of Japan, in Alan Greenspan's anti-inflation corner. The two men will confer today in Tokyo, and Mr. Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, will no doubt get a sympathetic hearing on his penchant for notching up short-term interest rates. Last week, Mr. Fukui, above, announced the imminent end of the Japanese central bank's superloose monetary policy as the nation's economy picks up momentum. Not to be outdone, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, in Beijing for trade talks, will be lecturing China's Securities Industry Association.

TAX TINKERING -- President Bush's tax advisory commission is holding its final meeting tomorrow before making recommendations to the White House on Nov. 1 for overhauling the federal income-tax system. Expect some fireworks after the panel's report comes out. Last week, a Houston organization called Americans for Fair Taxation attacked its proceedings as ''fraudulent political theater.''

ECONOMIC BELLWETHERS -- With inflation jitters spreading, attention this week will be focused on tomorrow's producer-price index for September and Wednesday's figures on housing starts for the same month. Also out this week are the Fed's beige book survey of economic conditions on Wednesday and leading economic indicators on Thursday.

A LOSS LOOMS -- General Motors -- which is holding talks with the United Auto Workers to lower health care costs -- is expected to announce a third-quarter loss today. Earnings season gets into full swing this week with reports out today from Citigroup and I.B.M.; tomorrow from 3M, Intel, Johnson & Johnson, Merrill Lynch, Motorola and Yahoo; Wednesday from Bank of America, Eastman Kodak, eBay, Honeywell and J.P. Morgan Chase; Thursday from Coca-Cola, Eli Lilly, Ford, Google, JetBlue, McDonald's, Pfizer and Southwest; and Friday from Wyeth and Xerox.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); TAX REFORM (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); TAX CONSULTING (67%); INCOME TAX (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); PFIZER INC (52%); GOOGLE INC (52%); COCA-COLA CO (52%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (52%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (52%); ELI LILLY & CO (52%); INTEL CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (63%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (53%); PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFEB (BRU) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%); KO (NYSE) (52%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (52%); LLY (SWX) (52%); LLY (NYSE) (52%); LEL (LSE) (52%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%) CHUBU JAPAN (77%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (55%) CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005



375 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Katrina's Legacy: Theme Park or Cookie Cutter?

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
Optimism is in short supply here. And as people begin to sift through the wreckage left by Hurricane Katrina, there is a creeping sense that the final blow has yet to be struck -- one that will irrevocably blot out the city's past. 
 The first premonition arose when Mayor C. Ray Nagin announced that the model for rebirth would be a pseudo-suburban development in the Lower Garden District called River Garden. The very suggestion alarmed preservationists, who pictured the remaking of historic neighborhoods into soulless subdivisions served by big-box stores.
More recently, Mr. Nagin contemplated suspending the city's historic preservation laws to make New Orleans more inviting to developers -- evoking the possibility of architectural havoc and untrammeled greed. 
 But politicians and developers are not the only culprits here. For decades now, the architectural mainstream has accepted the premise that cities can exist in a fixed point in historical time. What results is a fairy tale version of history, and the consequences could be particularly harsh for New Orleans, which was well on its way to becoming a picture-postcard vision of the past before the hurricane struck. 
 Now, with the city at its most vulnerable, such voices threaten to drown out all others. A forum on Gulf Coast renewal held recently in Mississippi was dominated by champions of New Urbanism, a sentimental and historicist vision of how cities work. Meanwhile, those who favor a more complex reading of urban history -- one that embraces 20th- and 21st-century realities as well as the 19th-century charms of New Orleans -- risk being relegated to the margins. 
 The fate threatening the city can be witnessed at River Garden, the mayor's favored model for the future. A few weeks after the storm, I drove through the development with Wayne Troyer, a local architect who opposes the mayor's vision. To evoke some of the qualities of a vintage New Orleans neighborhood, the houses are designed in a mix of traditional styles. A ribbon of row houses extends along Laurel Street, their wrought iron rails loose reproductions of those in the French Quarter. Nearby, larger two-family houses are modeled on traditional bungalows, with pitched roofs, shallow porches and shuttered windows decorated in pretty pink, yellow and blue hues. Traditional lampposts, evidently a mandatory feature of pseudo-historic developments, line the streets.
 All the hallmarks of a conventional suburban subdivision are here. Telephone wires are buried out of sight, and houses are set slightly farther apart than their counterparts in the real New Orleans to make room for paved driveways. The distancing is meant to afford privacy but suggests wariness instead; the driveways keep people off the street, fostering a sense of isolation. 
 Yet the most obvious clue that we have entered a surreal world is the sight of empty shopping carts on the lawns. The carts are from the nearby Wal-Mart, which has long since replaced locally owned stores in much of the United States. Today, Wal-Mart's ubiquitous blank box and blue-and-white sign represent our withdrawal into a sealed, homogenized world. 
 What is missing from River Garden, of course, are the small-grained details of everyday life, built up over decades, that the development claims to honor.
 For Mr. Troyer, the most telling reality is what it stands next to: five stoic brick buildings that are all that is left of the St. Thomas Hope project, affordable housing constructed in the early 1940's. Their simple forms, topped with slate tile roofs, are the kind of public housing that is typically reviled by public officials these days. 
 But for Mr. Troyer and many other architects of his generation, the simple three-story structures, set around a small central court, have a human scale that sets them apart from big developments. Whatever their flaws, they reflect a social pact -- the promise of decent low-cost housing for every citizen -- that was broken long ago, and is not likely to be repaired through a process of urban gentrification. 
 Yet River Garden is not the worst-case scenario. Driving along the industrial canal a few days later, I came across Abundance Square, a mixed-income residential development. Caked in mud, the development's barren roads are lined by rows of houses intended to evoke visions of a traditional community. Here, however, the result is the generic suburban formula: houses of identical cookie-cutter design neatly separated by driveways, empty lawns and a grid of privatized roads. The argument for such development, of course, will be that New Orleans needs to rebuild quickly, and standardized housing formulas are better than nothing at all. It is the argument of diminished expectations, one that serves the interests of developers while draining cities of their vibrancy. 
 The assumption at work here is that the only alternative is to do nothing. But in fact, the way architects think about cities has been evolving for some time now; the question is whether the city is willing to tap the intellectual resources at its disposal. Stephanie Bruno, for example, is the director of the Preservation Resource Center's Operation Comeback and one of the pre-Katrina heroes. Over the past decade, the center has been restoring early 19th-century vernacular shotgun houses and Creole bungalows in the city's poorest neighborhoods. The project, a rare mix of preservation values and social vision, was part of a broader strategy to resurrect poorer neighborhoods by helping low-income families obtain mortgages to buy the rebuilt homes. 
 By linking historical continuity to communal self-esteem, it demonstrates that urban revitalization efforts need not be reduced to dull formulas.
 Just south of St. Claude Avenue in the Ninth Ward, many of the restored houses look relatively intact from the street, although they are heavily damaged within. Some were restored only recently; in one case a paint can still sits in the middle of a living room floor whose boards are stained by flood waters.
 Hearing of the damage, Ms. Bruno says she was overcome by exhaustion. But many of these houses can still be saved. Rather than the softer, more absorbent woods used in newer construction, many of them were built out of cedar, a hardwood that is more likely to survive the flooding intact.
 Identifying what can be restored will be painstaking work. It will require the kind of government support -- tax incentives, adjustments in preservation and zoning laws -- that has become a rarity in a country that tends to equate the interests of business with the public welfare. What Ms. Bruno and others fear most is that these houses will simply be bulldozed in the name of expediency to make way for large-scale development like Abundance Square. (Why, after all, develop a house or two here and there when you can wipe out an entire district, rebuild it, and reap enormous profits?)
 Even if many of Ms. Bruno's humble shotgun houses are saved, the city's 20th-century landscape -- the kind of neighborhoods that mainstream preservationists tend to ignore -- is unlikely to find defenders. Built in the city's bowl, an area that was drained during the city's expansion in the 1920's, the Mid City area symbolized the city's embrace of modernity. Its mix of California-style bungalows and late Victorian houses, now severely damaged, has more in common with the sweeping landscapes of Los Angeles than with the romantic images of the city's European roots. As such, it is likely to be ignored by local custodians of the architectural past.
 To suggest, meanwhile, that the city's neatly compartmentalized historical styles -- shotgun house, Camelback, Creole cottage -- can be reconstituted in wholly rebuilt neighborhoods is to endorse a theme park version of the past. It reflects an absurdly reductive historical narrative, one that ignores the reality that conflicting historical strands are what give great cities their vitality.
 Doubtless large parts of New Orleans will have to be rebuilt from the ground up. But the best architects working today are as likely to turn to the cavernous Superdome for inspiration as to the spires of St. Louis Cathedral. They understand that a city's 20th-century inventions -- from the bungalows to the canals to the freeways -- are as integral to its identity as the 19th-century vernacular. 
 That insight leaves us better equipped to cope with the issues facing New Orleans in the 21st century. Past and future must learn to live together.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 24, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A Critic's Notebook article on Tuesday about the architectural future of New Orleans misidentified a hardwood that was widely used in the construction of humble 19th-century dwellings there. It was cypress. (Cedar is a softwood.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Double shotgun houses in the Mid City district of New Orleans, left, and a sanitized version in the Lower Garden District
below, a shotgun house in the lower Ninth Ward. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 The array of architecture in New Orleans ranges from the ornate Steamboat House, above, a local landmark, to the generic suburban look of Abundance Square, left. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. E8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); SUBURBS (76%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HISTORY (72%); RETAILERS (70%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



376 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. Surpasses Estimates As Tech Spending Improves

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
I.B.M. delivered a solid quarterly performance yesterday with earnings exceeding Wall Street's expectations, suggesting that corporate spending on information technology is continuing to pick up modestly.
 I.B.M., the world's largest information technology company, is closely watched as a barometer of business spending on technology. About one dollar of every $10 spent by corporations worldwide on technology is spent on I.B.M. hardware, software or services.
The company's quarterly performance reflects broader trends beyond a general improvement in technology spending. For example, technology services companies, including I.B.M. and Accenture, are shifting toward higher-profit services, taking over and automating business processes like procurement, finance and human resources. 
 But the sharply improved profits are also attributable to I.B.M. itself. Earlier this year, for example, the company trimmed its payroll by 14,500 workers and reported a strong quarter from its microelectronics unit, which is the sole supplier of the chips that power Microsoft's new Xbox video console.
 Samuel J. Palmisano, I.B.M.'s chief executive, said the company had a ''good quarter'' that demonstrated ''the strength of our business model across hardware, software and services.''
 Investors apparently agreed. I.B.M. shares rose by $1.89 in after-hours trading, after the release of the quarterly results, to $84.48 a share. In regular trading, the company closed at $82.59 a share, up 24 cents.
 I.B.M. reported after-tax profit of 94 cents a share, including a one-time charge of 32 cents, or $525 million. The tax bill is on the $9.5 billion the company previously said it planned to bring back to the United States, taking advantage of a new law intended to encourage American corporations to bring investment funds back into the country this year at a fraction of the normal tax rate.
 Excluding the one-time charge, I.B.M. had a profit of $1.26 a share, or 22 percent higher than a year ago, when it reported quarterly earnings of $1.03 a share. The performance easily surpassed the consensus earnings estimate among Wall Street analysts of $1.13 a share, according to Thomson First Call. 
 I.B.M. reported revenue of $21.5 billion in the quarter, about $200 million less than analysts had projected. Revenue for the quarter was 8 percent less than the year-earlier quarter, but the 2004 quarter included I.B.M.'s personal computer business, which was sold earlier this year to Lenovo of China. Excluding the PC business, overall revenue rose 4 percent. 
 As I.B.M. seeks new growth, its challenge mirrors that of the technology industry as a whole. The industry has become a huge business with worldwide sales of more than $1 trillion, though growth is far slower than the double-digit rates of the 1990's.
 Two technology research firms, IDC and Gartner Dataquest, estimate that sales of information technology -- hardware, software and services -- will grow by slightly more than 5 percent this year. 
 Still, the modest growth over all tends to obscure the dynamism within the industry, as some sectors shrink and others grow rapidly. Many lines of hardware and software are subject to relentless price-cutting, and in services I.B.M. must compete against aggressive Indian outsourcing companies like Infosys, Wipro and Tata Consulting.
 I.B.M.'s big services business, accounting for 53 percent of quarterly revenue, stumbled earlier this year, but seems to have recovered for a second quarter. Its revenue rose 3 percent, but its higher-profit service of handling and automating business tasks for corporate customers -- I.B.M. calls it business transformation outsourcing -- grew 45 percent.
 ''I.B.M. is trying to increase its growth by moving into these new areas that blend technology and traditional business consulting,'' said Crawford Del Prete, senior vice president of research at IDC. ''But it's still a small part of I.B.M.'s total business.'' 
 Profit margin for the services unit grew 1.1 percent compared with the year-earlier quarter, to 9.3 percent. ''It points both to better execution and a more profitable mix of business in services,'' said A.M. Sacconaghi, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
 New services contracts signed in the quarter -- an important indicator of future revenue -- rose 10 percent, to $11 billion.
 Hardware sales fell 32 percent compared with the year-ago quarter, to $5.1 billion. But excluding the PC business, which has been sold off, hardware revenue rose 7 percent. Mainframe revenue fell 4 percent, but should pick up in the fourth quarter with the introduction at the end of September of a new line, the z9 mainframes, analysts say.
 Software revenue rose 5 percent, to $3.8 billion. Sales of its WebSphere products, which use Internet standards to connect electronic commerce and business applications, increased 14 percent.
 Geographically, I.B.M. had solid growth in the United States and South America, with revenue up 5 percent. The European and Middle East region also grew 5 percent, while revenue in the Asia Pacific region slipped 2 percent, mainly because of Japan. Within the regional markets, emerging markets experienced far more rapid growth, with Brazil up 26 percent and India up 51 percent. 
 The recent upturn in the Japanese economy has not yet improved I.B.M.'s business, but Mark Loughridge, the chief financial officer, said he expected that might soon change. ''Japan is poised for a recovery as we enter 2006,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (74%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); TAX LAW (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (69%); ACCENTURE PLC (58%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (69%); ACN (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (69%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



377 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Nassau County Executive Focuses on Local Race First 

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Friend and foe alike predict that in just a few months, Thomas R. Suozzi will seek the Democratic nomination for governor of New York. 
 But before that can happen, he has to be re-elected Nassau County executive on Nov. 8. Statewide, Mr. Suozzi is still a little-known long shot, but on his home turf, he is the favorite for a new term. To garner attention beyond Long Island, Mr. Suozzi, who has acknowledged his ambitions but made no announcement, needs to win here by a hefty margin, politicians say. ''To be taken seriously statewide, he has to score enough of a plurality to project that he's a contender,'' said Desmond Ryan, a Republican lobbyist. 
 Mr. Suozzi's future is also on the line as his party scrambles to keep control of the County Legislature, where it now holds a precarious one-vote majority. A former Democratic assemblyman, Arthur J. Kremer, said, ''To show any kind of coattails, he needs to at least hold the Legislature, and it's literally up for grabs.''
 A second Suozzi term seems almost certain, experts say. ''Beating Suozzi is going to be a big uphill fight,'' said Michael Dawidziak, a campaign consultant for Mr. Suozzi's opponent in 2001 who is not involved in the race this year. ''The guy's got good poll numbers, lots of money in the bank and is good-looking.'' 
 But this election may not be as lopsided as the last, when Mr. Suozzi swept nearly two-thirds of the vote and vaporized Nassau County's reputation as a Republican stronghold. His opponent, Bruce R. Bent, was a Conservative in his first race who alienated Republicans after they nominated him.
 This time, the challenger is Gregory P. Peterson, a seasoned pro. Now a private lawyer, he once served as the chairman of Nassau's legislative body and for a decade was supervisor of Hempstead, whose 760,000 residents account for 57 percent of the county population.
 A natty dresser whose tan sets off snowy hair, Mr. Peterson, 62, ''is a credible candidate from central casting, somebody voters are familiar with and have elected and who looks like an executive,'' Mr. Dawidziak said. 
 The Republican Party county chairman, Joseph Mondello, said that Mr. Peterson had cut Mr. Suozzi's initial lead in the polls in half and ''is closing the gap'' in a county where the Republicans' lead over the Democrats in voter enrollment has dwindled to 36,000 today from 98,000 eight years ago. 
 Seeking to energize the electorate as its power wanes, the party is focusing on two issues: taxes, and the county executive's record.
 At the cornerstone of Mr. Suozzi's campaign is his claim that he fixed the county's finances, evident in his campaign slogan: ''bringing Nassau back.'' Four years ago, he rode in on voter resentment of Republican mismanagement. Despite an economic boom and Nassau's affluence, the county verged on bankruptcy with deficits, $2 billion in debt, a near-junk bond rating and a state-imposed fiscal monitor. A health insurance kickback scheme involving the chief deputy county executive cost more than $50 million.
 ''I was hired by the voters to fix the county's finances,'' Mr. Suozzi, 43, said in a recent interview. Referring to his predecessors, he said: ''My basic message is, they screwed it up, and we fixed it. Don't take my word for it. All these outside agencies are saying it.'' He cited 10 bond upgrades in his term, restoring Nassau's ''A'' rating.
 Mr. Suozzi claims credit for cutting the work force to its lowest in 30 years, wringing concessions from unions, balancing the budget, turning deficits into surpluses, reducing borrowing, halting health care agency deficits and, after raising the county portion of the property tax rate 19 percent his first year, freezing it the next three. As founder of the Fix Albany campaign and leader of the New York State County Executives Association, he pushed the state to cap local Medicaid costs, saving Nassau County $26 million. 
 But Mr. Peterson discounts the turnaround as a ''no-brainer'' that bore a high price tag. ''I give credit to the county taxpayers, because they footed the bill,'' he said in an interview. ''Suozzi picked their pockets to the tune of $129 million,'' he added, and reaped $105 million in special state aid. ''With that kind of money, sure you can turn things around.'' 
 As part of Mr. Peterson's focus on ''three main issues: taxes, taxes and taxes,'' he cites the new annual reassessments of home values. ''People are ballistic,'' he said. ''It goes up every single year. It's a hidden tax.'' He proposes a five-year freeze.
 ''That's just a lie,'' Mr. Suozzi said of the Republican claims of an increase. ''These are the guys who created the whole problem in the first place.''
 In fact, a judge ordered the previous assessor, a Republican, to revalue yearly, as is done in many places, to remedy inequities caused by Nassau County's failure to reassess since 1938. Challenges to the old system forced tax refunds, mostly to businesses, running up a $1 billion debt that taxpayers are still repaying. Updated assessments do not increase total tax collections but do shift taxes between properties if values on some change more than others.
 ''I agree taxes are too high,'' Mr. Suozzi said. ''People can't take it anymore.'' But the county froze its taxes while school districts and some other local governments increased theirs, he said.
 Republicans are also calling Mr. Suozzi ethically challenged. The Legislature's minority leader, Peter J. Schmitt, accused him of ignoring competitive bidding, steering contracts to campaign donors and tacitly allowing the corruption that forced two deputies to resign, one of whom was convicted of harassing a female aide and charging personal expenses to the county. 
 Mr. Peterson accused Mr. Suozzi of neglecting his duties in pursuit of higher office: ''That's why he's had so many of these scandals, when he's flitting around to Buffalo and Albany and Binghamton, wherever.''
 The drama on Election Day might center not on Mr. Suozzi's bid for re-election but on whether his party retains legislative control. The Legislature now has 10 Democrats and 9 Republicans. The major battlegrounds are two districts where each party is gunning to knock off an incumbent, and possibly a third district.
 ''They're real tight,'' the Democratic chairman, Mr. Jacobs, said of two contests. Similarly, his Republican counterpart, Mr. Mondello, commented on one of those districts and another one: ''They're 50-50. They could go either way.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LAWYERS (60%); GOVERNORS (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



378 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: China Builds Its Dreams, and Some Fear a Bubble 

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
Move over, New York. This year alone, Shanghai will complete towers with more space for living and working than there is in all the office buildings in New York City.
 That is in a city that already has 4,000 skyscrapers, almost double the number in New York. And there are designs to build 1,000 more by the end of this decade.
China's real estate market is so hot that miniature cities are being created with artificial lakes, and the country's nouveau riche suddenly seem eager to put down as much as $5.3 million for a luxury apartment in skyscrapers with names like the Skyline Mansion. 
 For decades after the Communists took over in 1949, there was relatively little housing construction or office building under central planning. But since the early 1990's, Shanghai and other cities have been making up for lost time. And this year the building boom is at a frenzy, with the nation expected to lay down the finishing blocks on 4.7 billion square feet or more of construction, a record, up from 2 billion in 1998. 
 ''There's no doubt what is happening in parts of China is on a scale we've never seen before,'' said Richard Burdett, professor of architecture and urbanism at the London School of Economics. ''But more importantly, it's the fastest pace of development in the past 50 or 100 years.''
 In Beijing, the remains of an old Taoist temple now stand in the middle of the parking lot of a new mall more than twice the size of the Mall of America. Big developers are acquiring huge swaths of prime land in the largest cities to build huge residential campuses with kitschy names like Cloudland Water Manor, Eastern Venice, Palais de Fortune and Skyway Oasis Garden.
 Such developments dwarf anything being built today in the West. ''I'm working on a master plan for a 46-kilometer riverfront area,'' said Robert Egan, who runs a landscape architecture firm in Beijing called PlaceMakers. ''Scale like that doesn't happen in the U.S.''
 It is not uncommon to see a residential development with 10, 20 or even 30 identical high-rise apartment buildings clustered around sculpted green spaces and artificial waterways.
 For increasingly wealthy Chinese, the American dream of a home and a yard has become more like a French villa with a community lake, a town square, a post office, a hospital, a cinema, a church, a hotel, a shopping mall and, of course, a power plant. 
 A top-of-the-line unit at one development project has a 25-acre palm-shaped artificial lake, which brochures say will feature docks with berths for private yachts.
 Prices are soaring. Luxury apartments in Shanghai and Beijing with names like Home of the Tycoons now sell for prices comparable to some high-end properties in New York.
 Rising prices have created a circus-like atmosphere in parts of China. Real estate fairs are mobbed, land speculation is rampant and some poor farmers dream about converting their wheat fields into the next Beverly Hills.
 Indeed, prices have risen so fast over the last few years and the pace of building has been so furious here and in other large cities that the government and some leading economists have been warning about a huge property bubble in China.
 The building boom is a principal reason that China is searching around the world for energy and natural resources: it needs the raw material to build new cities, and the energy to power them. That is helping drive up world commodity prices and threatening global environmental damage .
 China's heavy reliance on coal to power its overcharged economy has already made it the world's second-largest producer of greenhouse gases, after the United States. And the World Health Organization says China has 7 of the world's 10 most-polluted cities.
 The construction boom is also beginning to wipe out what little is left of the old China, alarming historic preservationists. Indeed, as the world's most-populous country, at 1.3 billion, rapidly modernizes and urbanizes, producing millions of new homeowners, its social and economic fabric is being fundamentally altered.
 China's housing rush is being fueled by mortgage rates around 5 percent and huge inflows of foreign capital. But the boom is also driven by landmark government housing reforms from the 1990's that for the first time since the Communist revolution of the late 1940's allowed Chinese to acquire their own homes rather than live in government housing.
 As a result of this privatization, thousands of new residential projects are rising in the bustling coastal provinces. And sprawling satellite towns and luxury villa developments are sprouting in what was once farmland.
 This may just a suggestion of what is ahead. China expects 75 million more farmers to move to cities over the next five years, amounting to one of the biggest mass migrations in history, according to CLSA, a brokerage house specializing in the Asia-Pacific region. 
 ''China's demand for housing is just getting going,'' says Andy Rothman, a CLSA analyst in Shanghai.
 The boom is most evident in the largest cities like Beijing, which will be host for the 2008 Olympics and is now draped in construction projects that are straining water and power supplies. Every big city seems to have plans for a central business district. And every big housing project seems to have a Phase 1, 2 and 3.
 ''Everyone wants to build a Manhattan,'' said Jun Xia, a principal in the Shanghai office of Gensler, a global architecture and design firm. ''In China, I say 'smaller, smaller' and the clients say 'wider, wider.'''
 Some of the greatest financial rewards have been going to the country's new real estate tycoons -- people like Pan Shiyi and Zhang Xin in Beijing, and Wang Shi in Shenzhen. A property tycoon in Tianjin, Sun Hongbin, once served a two-year prison term for embezzlement but now graces the cover of magazines like China Entrepreneur.
 It is not surprising that in a country where 170 metropolitan areas have more than a million people, according to government figures, everyone seems to want to be a developer. State-owned oil and steel giants, automobile companies, shipbuilders and even Communist Party newspapers are creating real estate subsidiaries.
 The developer of the Fortune Residence in Shanghai, a high-end property, is a subsidiary of People's Daily, the leading newspaper of the Communist Party. And China Central Place in Beijing is being developed by Guohua Electric, a power company that for 50 years has occupied land in an area the city recently designated as its new central business district.
 Guohua's real estate arm is now building a $1.2 billion complex that consists of three high-rise office buildings, a 1.8-million-square-foot shopping mall, 1,300 luxury apartments, two five-star hotels and a man-made lake and river walk.
 Foreigners are also scrambling to enter the Chinese real estate market. Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch have invested in property. And Morgan Stanley has acquired about $700 million worth of commercial real estate this year in Shanghai. The city says it now has more than 4,000 skyscrapers -- buildings 18 stories or higher -- far more than New York, according to Emporis, a global real estate research group based in Germany. 
 Also considering investments here are Simon Property, one of the world's biggest retail developers; Triple Five Group, developer of the Mall of America; and a Japanese real estate tycoon, Minoru Mori, who is spending nearly $1 billion to build one of the world's tallest buildings -- the 1,614-foot Shanghai World Financial Center in the Pudong district.
 There is, of course, a dark side to this real estate boom. In the scramble to reallocate land and create boomtowns, China has spent much of the last decade demolishing millions of old homes and buildings and relocating tens of millions of people, many against their will.
 And there are broader risks. The Chinese government is concerned that soaring prices might overheat the nation's economy and even threaten social stability. It moved this year to impose new taxes and other tough administrative measures aimed at cooling off the property sector.
 Housing sales have slowed since June. But in recent months, real estate construction has picked up steam again, according to UBS. And that growth is bolstering new demand for energy and raw material. China is already the world's largest producer and consumer of steel, cement and coal.
 In his report, ''China Eats the World,'' Mr. Rothman of CLSA predicted that in coming years, ''the Chinese dragon will stay very, very hungry.'' 
 Many Chinese are acting as if the housing boom will not fizzle any time soon. The economy is soaring, income is rising, Ikeas and Wal-Marts are popping up in second-tier cities and tens of millions of people are giddy about the prospects of owning their own homes, driving their own cars and adopting a more modern lifestyle.
 ''You know for a half-century, nothing was built in China,'' Mr. Jun of Gensler said. ''Now there's a lot of excitement and demand for new houses, and excitement about a new way to live.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page picture caption yesterday with an article about the real estate boom in China misidentified the skyscraper at the center of the photograph. It was the Citic tower, in downtown Shanghai; the Marriott Hotel was at the left, with a triangular roof.

GRAPHIC: Photos: New apartment towers, some with slightly fanciful names like Skyline Mansion and others with sea views, rise in the Pudong area of Shanghai.
An apartment complex going up in Shanghai. With mortgage rates around 5 percent, energetic foreign investment, rising income and official approval, the nation is making up for years of inattention to construction. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. C8)
 The changing Shanghai skyline includes a Marriott hotel, center, and small houses in the Puxi area, right. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Cause for Alarm?''The rate at which China's real estate market is growing has raised concern about a huge property bubble.Graph tracks China's real estate development as a percentage of total fixed investment since 1986.Average housing priceFor an estimated 1,000-squarefoot homeGraph tracks average housing price for Beijing, Shanghai, and National average since 1998.Graph tracks per-capita annual income for Beijing, Shanghai, and National average since 1998.(Source by National Statistics Bureau of China)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LAKES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); STUDENT HOUSING (75%); TRENDS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); TAOISTS & TAOISM (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Building (Construction); Housing; Real Estate

PERSON: David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); EAST CHINA (94%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%) China; Shanghai (China); Beijing (China); China

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



379 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Asians Angered, Again, by Visit To War Shrine by Japan Leader 

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's visit to a nationalist war memorial here on Monday drew immediate and fierce criticism from Asian countries, threatening to isolate Japan and worsen its strained relations with China.
 Beijing condemned the visit to the memorial, the Yasukuni shrine, as ''a serious provocation to the Chinese people,'' and canceled bilateral talks on the North Korean nuclear crisis that had been scheduled for Monday. South Korea announced that it would cancel or postpone a trip to Japan scheduled for December by President Roh Moo Hyun.
 On Monday morning, after months of speculation about the timing of a visit, Mr. Koizumi fulfilled his promise of praying annually at the shrine. The Shinto shrine, which deifies Japan's 2.5 million war dead, including war criminals responsible for atrocities throughout Asia, is regarded by most Asians as the symbol of unrepentant militarism. 
 ''Prime Minister Koizumi has to bear the historic responsibility for damaging China-Japan relations,'' China's ambassador to Japan, Wang Yi, said in a statement on Monday.
 In Seoul, Kim Man Soo, a spokesman for the president, said the South Korean government was no longer planning for a summit meeting in December or one-to-one talks between the leaders at a meeting next month of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation ministers in Pusan, South Korea. 
 At tense talks last June in Seoul, President Roh told Prime Minister Koizumi that the visits to Yasukuni lay at the ''core'' of problems between the nations.
 The visit to the shrine also drew protests from Taiwan and Singapore. The leaders of the Yasukuni shrine have long stood at the center of a movement to justify Japan's prewar conduct, arguing that Japan tried to liberate Asia from Western powers and was pushed into World War II by the United States, and that the war criminals enshrined there were innocent.
 As Mr. Koizumi has led Japan to adopt a more assertive foreign policy, more politicians and public figures have also openly tried to justify Japan's past. Their message has resonated in a country where anxieties over a shrinking population, uncertain economic prospects and China's rise have led to an increase in nationalist sentiments.
 Mr. Koizumi rejected criticism of his visit, saying that he was merely paying homage to Japan's war dead. ''No foreign government should criticize the way we mourn our war dead,'' he said.
 Mr. Koizumi, who arrived in his official car, said he had visited the shrine as a private citizen. He was flanked by a phalanx of bodyguards, and images of him at prayer were broadcast on television sets across the nation. To play down the significance of his visit, he wore a gray suit, in contrast to the formal wear of his previous visits. He also refrained from entering the inner shrine and did not follow the precise Shinto ritual of bowing and clapping.
 While campaigning for his party leadership in 2001, Mr. Koizumi promised the politically powerful JapanWar-Bereaved Families Association that he would visit the shrine every year. So he has found himself cornered every year: yield to outside criticism and risk losing the backing of his nationalist supporters, or go to Yasukuni and enrage Asia. He has chosen the second option, and possible successors in his party have said they will continue the visits. The political opposition has called for an end to the visits and the construction of a new, secular memorial.
 Seiji Maehara, leader of the main opposition Democratic Party, said, ''I think he should surely be aware that the prime minister, as a public official, cannot distinguish the official from the private.''
 The muting of Mr. Koizumi's visit, though, appeared to be a concession to growing criticism at home. 
 Takenori Kanzaki, leader of the New Komeito, the governing party's junior coalition partner, told reporters that Mr. Koizumi probably took into consideration a ruling last month by the Osaka High Court that his visits violated constitutional separation of religion and the state.
 It was perhaps also a slight concession to business leaders. While Japan's political leaders have tended to regard an increasingly powerful China as a threat, business leaders have regard it as an opportunity. 
 Hiroshi Okuda, chairman of Toyota and of Nippon Keidanren, Japan's powerful business association, said the prime minister had given consideration to domestic and international affairs by visiting the shrine as a private person. 
 But Kakutaro Kitashiro, the chairman of the Japan Association of Corporate Executives, another powerful association that supported Mr. Koizumi last month, was more critical, saying, ''We hope that he will fully recognize that it might damage our national interest, that careful explanations must be given to our neighboring countries, and that diplomatic efforts must be made to gain their understanding.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); WAR CRIMES (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (79%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); GENOCIDE (74%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); RELIGION (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) World War II (1939-45); Election Issues; Monuments and Memorials; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; World War II (1939-45)

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (54%)

PERSON: Norimitsu Onishi; Junichiro (Prime Min) Koizumi

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); PUSAN, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) JAPAN (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); CHINA (96%); ASIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TAIWAN (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Singapore; China; South Korea; Taiwan; Japan

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



380 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Starved By Red Tape

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: Niamey, Niger 

 BODY:
In countries like this, children end up being killed not only by malaria and measles, but also by an insistence on the six-week paid vacation.
 This land of mud huts and malnourished babies is the very least developed country on the planet, but local regulations stipulate that companies must give all employees six weeks and two days of paid vacation a year. Not surprisingly, there are almost no employers in Niger.
So if we in the West want to help children in countries like Niger, we should send vaccines and mosquito nets -- but we also must push these countries to open themselves up for business. Right now, many African countries are in effect killing their own citizens by making it staggeringly difficult for entrepreneurs to open shop. 
 The World Bank has published a fascinating ranking of how easy it is to do business in 155 countries of the world. New Zealand ranks first, followed by Singapore and the United States. No African country is in the top 20.
 But of the 20 countries in the world where it is most difficult to do business, 17 are African, according to the study, ''Doing Business in 2006.'' Niger ranks 150th, followed by Sudan, Chad, Central African Republic, Burkina Faso and -- the very worst place to try to do business -- Congo.
 Take a simple construction project -- building a warehouse for books. In Niger, obtaining the necessary licenses would involve 27 procedures over half a year. And in either Nigeria or Zimbabwe, the licenses would take nearly a year and a half to obtain.
 Here in Niger, for example, when people get money (sent to them from a relative abroad, for instance), they often use it to buy a motorcycle or a stereo system, because it is so onerous to invest in a formal business. Or to avoid hassles, they open an unlicensed business -- perhaps a bed-and-breakfast, instead of a hotel.
 The minimum wage is set at $35 a month in Niger, higher than the local market level. Employees are allowed to work no more than nine hours a day, weekend work is basically prohibited, and women are not allowed to work evenings at all. Layoffs are usually not allowed.
 Perhaps those rules (typically inherited from European countries during colonial days) sound as if they protect workers. But the upshot is that companies don't come to Niger and don't hire anyone they don't want on the payroll forever. So almost all people toil in the informal labor sector where there are no protections whatsoever.
 In a village 600 miles east of the capital, Niamey, for example, I met a woman named Aisha whose 2-year-old daughter had just died of malaria (partly because she couldn't afford to take the child to the doctor). Ms. Aisha is five months pregnant, although she is so malnourished you can barely tell she's pregnant at all.
 Her husband has traveled to a nearby country to look for work, and so Ms. Aisha survives by scrounging the countryside for firewood and then hiking three hours each way to the town of Zinder to sell bundles of wood on the street. It's hard work, seven days a week, and it earns her the equivalent of 40 to 50 cents for a very long day.
 Ms. Aisha and the other villagers would be far better off if Nike started a sweatshop here paying the peasants 10 cents an hour to make shoes. But Nike wouldn't do that, both because there would be howls of outrage from American campuses at the exploitative wages and because Niger's labor laws are so uninviting.
 Another casualty of overregulation in poor countries is trade. Farmers in sub-Saharan Africa use less than one-twentieth as much fertilizer as those in the West, partly because import duties and red tape can make fertilizer eight times as expensive here as in Europe.
 In Zinder, Tchiaka Issoufou, the owner of a small shop, explained that he makes regular trips to Nigeria by truck to buy radios and electronic gear to fill his store. The customs officials make him pay a tax of several thousand dollars per truckload, arbitrarily applied -- plus he has to pay off the police at roadblocks and avoid the bandits with machine guns who steal vehicles.
 So let's give more aid to indigent countries. Let's forgive some of their debts. But let's also get them to rip up their red tape, and to help their people by welcoming businesses -- including sweatshops -- and by taking away those six weeks of paid vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALARIA (90%); MALNUTRITION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STARVATION (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); VACCINES (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); DEREGULATION (66%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (54%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (50%) Bureaucratic Red Tape; Foreign Aid; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

PERSON: Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGER (96%); AFRICA (92%); NIGERIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BURKINA FASO (79%); SUDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); CHAD (79%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



381 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Loyal Journal; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Amish May Be Good Neighbors, but Not Their Horses

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Gretchen Ruethling contributed reporting from Chicago for this article.

DATELINE: LOYAL, Wis., Oct. 14 

 BODY:
For years, the residents of this small town surrounded by dairy farms have tried to get along with their Amish neighbors, who commute in horse-drawn buggies to banks and stores in town. 
 But horse droppings keep getting in the way. They often land at Inga Larsen's driveway, making an adventure out of walking to the mailbox for Ms. Larsen, who is 92 and uses a cane. 
The Methodist church, on a busy corner, is particularly unlucky. When the buggies pull up to a stop sign there, horses often relieve themselves. JoAnn Oestreich, who lives next to the church, said she stopped opening her windows because the stench and flies were unbearable.
 ''With all the other things we have to do in life, you just get sick and tired of cleaning up the horse manure,'' Gladys Zuehlke, Ms. Larsen's daughter, said. 
 There is the health concern. ''Maybe horse manure does not carry illness, but flies do,'' Ms. Zuehlke said. 
 Three years ago, people in this town of 1,300 thought that they had settled the dispute with a gentlemen's agreement in which the Amish promised to stay off certain well-traveled roads and to clean up regularly at a handful of hitching posts.
 In return, the town dropped a proposal to force the Amish to put manure-catching ''diapers'' on the bottoms of the buggies and to clean up all droppings or be fined. The Amish, offended by the tone of the debate, withdrew some of their savings from Loyal banks and boycotted city businesses for about a year. 
 Now the dispute has returned, and in a meeting on Thursday residents related their grievances for nearly two hours and debated a suggestion to limit the Amish to truck routes around the town. Residents said that the Amish had not been keeping the hitching posts clean and that the manure continued to cause trouble. Several business owners and the mayor expressed concern that irritating the Amish could cause a new boycott. The City Council plans to discuss the problem again on Tuesday. 
 Although some residents fret that the bickering is as embarrassing as, well, the manure itself, the debate displays fissures in the seemingly cordial relations between the Amish and ''the English,'' what the Amish call non-Amish. The Amish are a Christian sect that favors plain dress and plain living, with little or no reliance on modern conveniences like electricity, cars or telephones. In Wisconsin, with the fourth-largest Amish population after Pennsylvania, Ohio and Indiana, their numbers are growing, exceeding 10,400 in 2002, said Ingolf Vogeler, a geography professor at the University of Wisconsin, Eau Claire, 50 miles west of Loyal.
 Around Loyal, the Amish population has grown to 85 families, or more than 500 people, since the first two families arrived in 1989 from Ohio. The Amish have been loath to defend themselves. Two representatives declined to speak Thursday, watching silently. 
 Emanuel Miller, head of one of the two original families, said in an interview that safety concerns prevented the Amish from cleaning up more manure, though he acknowledged that they could do a better job at the hitching posts. He said it was dangerous to stop carriages every time the horses relieved themselves. 
 This month, cars chased down a horse that ran off with an empty buggy just after an Amish woman had untied it. Amish in nearby Augusta found that manure-catchers, which that city imposed about 10 years ago, spooked some young horses, Mr. Miller said. He added that that he would like to think the manure debate was an isolated problem. 
 ''Over all, I would say we have come to a real good community here,'' he said Friday. ''There are a few oddballs, but the vast majority are very nice people around here. I don't detect any prejudice as a whole.'' 
 Still, at breakfast at Grandma's Kitchen last week, a group of older women spoke about a host of concerns. They recounted that at a funeral three years ago at the Methodist church, the American Legion drill team halted before firing a salute so it could step away from a manure pile. The women also said motorists had a hard time seeing the buggies at night because the Amish had refused to put bright orange slow-moving-vehicle signs on their buggies, as some Amish in other places have. 
 Courts in Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin have upheld the right, based on freedom of religious expression, to use white reflective tape rather than the usual orange triangle, which some Amish consider a symbol of the non-Amish world. 
 Ms. Zuehlke, a nurse, said workers at her hospital could ''never understand'' young Amish children, who grow up speaking German. But she said her mother had, at least, used some of the manure to fertilize her backyard flower garden.
 ''The English community has a number of things they are upset about,'' said Harvey M. Jacobs, a professor in the urban and regional planning department at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, who has studied the Wisconsin Amish. 
 ''The non-Amish community is feeling a sense of alienation, a confusion and anger,'' Professor Jacobs said, adding that its attitude was one of ''these people live amongst us and yet don't live with us.'' 
 ''The horse issue is a way that can express itself,'' he said.
 Residents also fault the city for not cleaning the streets better.
 [Mayor Randy Anderson said on Monday that the question boiled down to economics. City crews clean with a sweeper a few times a week, Mr. Anderson said.''How many times do you send a city crew out there to clean up?'' ]
 Some business owners are clearly concerned about how the Amish will react if pushed. Tom Zettler, who owns the town's hardware store, said he relied on the Amish for a quarter of his business and watched Amish business drop to ''almost nothing'' in the 2002 debate.
 ''I don't believe this is just about horse manure,'' Mr. Zettler said. ''The issue is these people are different than any of the people around here, and that's unfortunate.''
 If an ordinance restricts manure, Mr. Miller said, ''we would avoid Loyal as much as we could.''
 As for health questions, Mr. Miller said: ''This is so highly biodegradable. The good lord created the horse as a beast of burden, and he created it so it would not be so offensive an animal. The manure is much more unsightly than hazardous to health.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Amish in Loyal, Wis., will not put orange triangles on buggies, using instead white reflective tape. Emanuel Miller, with Sam Hershberger, left, at a municipal meeting last week, said safety was a factor in cleaning up after horses. (Photographs by Andy Manis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); HORSES (90%); CITIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CHURCH & STATE (71%); BOYCOTTS (64%); POPULATION GROWTH (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Roads and Traffic; Mennonite Churches; Horses; Church-State Relations

PERSON: Alexei Barrionuevo

GEOGRAPHIC: EAU CLAIRE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Loyal (Wis) 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



382 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Health Care Reality Intrudes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Retirees Confront the Way It Is Now: Co-Pays and Deductibles

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and MILT FREUDENHEIM

DATELINE: SUMPTER TOWNSHIP, Mich., Oct. 17 

 BODY:
When Sam Loggans saw the United Automobile Workers president, Ron Gettelfinger, at an N.A.A.C.P. event last year, he had a message for the union boss.
 ''I said, 'G.M. is going to come after our benefits,''' recalled Mr. Loggans, who proudly displays a plaque on his living room wall honoring his 30 years as an electrician at General Motors. Mr. Gettelfinger, he said, looked him in the eye and assured him that benefits for retirees ''were not going to be on the table.''
But Mr. Loggans, age 69, who serves on a local board of G.M. retirees, said Monday that it was a promise he now knew the U.A.W. had no way of keeping. ''It doesn't sit well, but it's a necessity,'' Mr. Loggans said. ''I hate to admit it's a necessity, but I think it's something we have to do.'' 
 On Monday, as General Motors reported that its losses for the year had climbed to nearly $4 billion, the company said it had reached a tentative agreement with the U.A.W. to cut $1 billion annually from its retiree health care expenses -- benefits that have been so generous that economists and financial analysts have long said they were unsustainable. 
 G.M. said it would not provide specific details about the benefit cuts yet, until local union officials had been briefed. But for retirees like Mr. Loggans and his wife, Linda, 67, who was a G.M. parts inspector for 25 years, the trims may mean that their co-payments for prescription drugs and doctor visits will increase, and that for the first time they will have to start paying annual deductibles before their insurance coverage kicks in.
 Even so, health policy experts said that in shifting more health costs to workers and retirees, General Motors still appeared to be years behind big companies in most other industries in addressing runaway health care costs. 
 ''It doesn't sound like it is any more than most corporations did 15 to 20 years ago,'' said Helen Darling, president of the National Business Group on Health, an organization of large employers that studies benefits. ''This isn't going to solve their problem at G.M. They're still 15 years behind everybody else.''
 In a survey early this year of 458 employers that had retiree health plans, according to the benefits consulting firm Watson Wyatt, all but 23 required monthly contributions by retirees 65 or older. Three of those 23 were automobile companies. And more than half of the others were drug makers or health services companies. 
 G.M. supports 2.5 retirees for every one of its 142,000 active employees in the United States. And like many of those retirees, the Logganses spent Monday absorbing the reality that their Cadillac of a health insurance plan was starting to look more like a Buick -- a step down, but still likely to end up better than the retiree health benefits provided by most other companies. 
 Some other G.M. retirees, even as they conceded that the company's financial situation probably made the move inevitable, voiced bitterness yesterday about a curtailment of what they had long considered a lifetime benefit. 
 ''We fought for everything we got,'' said Ray Bailey, 75, a former G.M. electrician in Belleville, Mich., who along with his wife, Dorothy -- and the Logganses -- worked at the G.M. Willow Run Transmission plant in Ypsilanti, Mich. ''We took benefits instead of wages a lot of different times, so they didn't give us anything. We earned it.
 Albert Mitcham, a 72-year-old former U.A.W. international representative, one of the union's most senior positions, noted: ''We weren't brought up with givebacks. A lot of people thought, and to a degree I did, too, that they were there once you retire as a lifetime benefit.'' 
 But Mr. Mitcham said that over the last six months, most retirees had come to assume that a giveback was finally on its way. 
 The Logganses said that they harbored no ill will, and that they had known that such good medical coverage was not likely to last forever.
 ''Thank God for the U.A.W. and General Motors,'' Mr. Loggans said, ''because we do have such good retirement benefits. They're probably the best in the world.'' 
 The Logganses, who are both diabetic, take nine prescriptions between them. Mr. Loggans requires medication for high blood pressure and Ms. Loggans, who retired the same year as her husband, takes pain medication for a wrist injury she said she sustained while working at the Willow Run plant, about five miles from the couple's house here. Together they pay $45 in co-payments every 90 days for their prescriptions, which might otherwise cost hundreds of dollars. And so, whatever adjustments G.M. is likely to make to its retiree coverage, Ms. Loggans said, ''We'd live with it.''
 Maurice Alexander, who worked as a skilled tradesman for G.M. at the Willow Run plant for 25 years, was also sympathetic to the company that hired him after he returned from World War II. ''The trough is running dry,'' said Mr. Alexander, who lives in Green Oak Township, Mich. ''Sales are down, everything is going overseas, and they're not making the money here that they used to.''
 At age 85, Mr. Alexander relies heavily on his G.M. health care. He has had two heart attacks and takes seven prescriptions for various ailments like high blood pressure, an enlarged prostate and high cholesterol. Still, he said, ''I understand that we're going to have to pay our part.''
 As do many retired workers from many other unionized industries. Retirees covered by union contracts at the big telecommunications companies, for example, have been paying a growing share of health costs over the years. And telecommunications companies like Verizon, which have added wireless units that do not have unions, have granted much less generous benefits to those employees than the ones given union workers. 
 Typically in telecommunications, the employee's or retiree's share of the costs comes in the annual deductibles -- thresholds below which the individual pays all the bills -- and co-payments, in which each doctor's visit, prescription or procedure requires paying an out-of-pocket fee.
 ''Telecommunications retirees have had deductibles and co-pays for some years,'' said Bruce I. Taylor, a former Verizon benefits official who is a consultant with Associates & Wilson in Rosemont, Pa. The union also agreed to contribute part of the monthly premium when a cost ceiling was breached, but this had not yet happened, he added.
 At another big telecommunications company, SBC Communications, most active and retired workers will switch to high-deductible health savings plans next year, even though individuals will still pay no premiums. Coverage including a spouse will cost $143 a month. SBC still pays 70 percent of employee and retiree health costs, Walt Sharp, a spokesman, said. 
 Dallas L. Salisbury, president and chief executive of the Employee Benefit Research Institute, a nonprofit research center in Washington, said, ''Even the granddad companies that maintained these benefits are on a track moving away from it.''
 Uwe E. Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton University, said that General Motors officials and the union had made commitments to unions in the 1970's with no way of knowing that they were promising to cover ''drugs that cost up to $20,000 a month or a $200,000 artificial heart procedure. 
 ''I'm personally delighted that the union is now going along'' with the changes, Professor Reinhardt said. ''Of course the retired workers may feel betrayed,'' he said, but many people in this country were having trouble coping with the soaring cost of health care. ''I say to them, my heart goes out to you, but you are in America.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 20, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Tuesday about an agreement between General Motors and the United Automobile Workers to curtail health benefits for employees and retirees misstated the scope of planned revisions at another big employer, SBC Communications. (The error also occurred in an article in Business Day the same day about the effect on G.M. retirees.) The changes affect active or retired salaried employees not covered by union contracts -- not those covered by contracts.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sam and Linda Loggans take nine medications between them. Of the cut in benefits, he says, ''It doesn't sit well, but it's a necessity.'' (Photo by Andrew Sacks for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
The United Auto Workers tentatively agreed to let G.M. cut $1 billion annually from retiree health care benefits. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Not a Pretty Picture''G.M.'s auto sales dwarf the revenue brought in by its finance operations, but only the finance operations have been profitable lately. That has eroded the company's reserves.Graph shows GROSS CASH* and NET LIQUIDITY+ since 2003.Graph shows REVENUE and FINANCE AND INSURANCE since 2003.*Primarily cash and market securities, excluding finance operations+Gross cash minus debt
 excludes finance operations(Source by General Motors)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Bargaining for Health''A tentative agreement between General Motors and the United Auto Workers would significantly reduce G.M.'s health care costs.Graph shows retiree health care obligations for DEC. 31, 2004 and AFTER THE AGREEMENTGraph shows pretax health care expenses for DEC. 31, 2004 and AFTER THE AGREEMENT(Source by the company)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (90%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (84%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



383 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: G.M. and Tobacco Shares Help Lead Moderate Rally

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street rallied to finish moderately higher yesterday as nervous investors got some reassurance from General Motors' new labor agreement and from a favorable court ruling for cigarette makers. Technology stocks rebounded ahead of three major profit reports.
 G.M.'s tentative deal calmed investors who were concerned about the company's finances. The market also got a lift from strong quarterly earnings in the financial sector and the Supreme Court's refusal to let the government pursue a $280 billion racketeering penalty against tobacco companies. 
 The news helped offset rising crude oil prices, which added nearly $2 a barrel as a strengthening tropical storm posed yet another threat to the Gulf Coast region. A barrel of light crude climbed $1.73, to settle at $64.36 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Ed Peters, chief investment officer at PanAgora Asset Management, said that while corporate earnings had so far been positive, high oil and gas prices and continued speculation about the Federal Reserve's campaign to tighten interest rates had been holding back the market.
 ''I think there's still uncertainty about how far the Fed is going to go, and uncertainty about the effect of higher energy prices on the economy,'' Mr. Peters said. ''We're seeing a modest bounce-back, but it doesn't seem to have a lot of conviction.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 60.76 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,348.10. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 3.53 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,190.10, and the Nasdaq composite index added 5.47 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,070.30.
 With little economic data announced, investors were relying on the first wave of third-quarter earnings reports as a gauge on the economy and Gulf Coast recovery efforts after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
 Technology investors received good news after the session, when International Business Machines said its third-quarter profit dipped but still beat Wall Street targets by 13 cents a share on strength in its services unit. I.B.M. rose 24 cents, to close at $82.59, and gained another $1.73 in after-hours activity.
 Intel and Motorola, also considered major barometers of the tech sector's health, are set to report earnings today. Intel climbed 23 cents, to $23.46, while Motorola sank 22 cents, to $19.94.
 General Motors jumped $2.11, to $30.09, after the company said it had reached a deal with the United Auto Workers to cut health care costs. However, the company posted a $1.6 billion deficit for the third quarter, far greater than analysts had expected.
 The Supreme Court ruling sent shares of tobacco companies surging, with Altria Group, the parent of Phillip Morris USA, rising $4.30, to $74.96, and Reynolds American adding $5.06, to $83.80.
 In the financial sector, Citigroup posted a 35 percent jump in quarterly profit, in part from the sale of its life insurance and annuities businesses. Without one-time charges, the company beat analysts' estimates by 4 cents a share. Nonetheless, Citigroup gave back earlier gains and fell 23 cents, to $44.81.
 Charles Schwab posted its largest quarterly profit since the dot-com era, reversing a loss a year earlier on sturdy asset growth. The discount brokerage firm beat Wall Street targets by a penny a share. Schwab rose 21 cents, to $13.34.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note declined 4/32, to a price of 98 2/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.49 percent, from 4.48 percent on Friday.
 Here are the results of the three-month and six-month bill auctions:



	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.043	97.970	High Rate	 3.785	 4.015	Investment Rate	 3.875	 4.155	Low Rate	 3.740	 3.970	Median Rate	 3.770	 3.995	Total applied for	$43,384,657	$39,697,424	Accepted	$24,533,557	$22,493,529	Noncompetitive	$1,863,777	$1,480,546	




GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); HURRICANES (74%); TROPICAL STORMS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (70%); NATURAL DISASTERS (69%); WEATHER (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (84%); INTEL CORP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); PANAGORA ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (56%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (52%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%); REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); IBMC (BRU) (52%); IBM (NYSE) (52%); IBM (LSE) (52%); MSI (NYSE) (51%); RAI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); SIC2131 CHEWING & SMOKING TOBACCO & SNUFF (50%); SIC2121 CIGARS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



384 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES: SOUNDING OFF; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: How to End Airplane Boarding Bottlenecks

BYLINE: By Christopher Elliott. 
E-mail: elliottc@nytimes.com

 BODY:
NED LEVI watched in amazement as a passenger grunted down the aisle with five bags on a recent flight from Philadelphia to Seattle. ''I was surprised she could even walk,'' said Mr. Levi, a computer consultant from Philadelphia. ''I was even more surprised that the flight attendants didn't try to stop her.'' His remedy for the endless boarding delays that plague airlines these days: enforce luggage limits.
 Sounds reasonable, but United Airlines says it believes it has hit on a better solution. It recently announced a logistics ploy it calls Wilma -- shorthand for window-middle-aisle -- that it claims will cut boarding times by four to five minutes, an eternity in the industry's on-time takeoff sweepstakes. The idea is to fill the window seats in economy class first, then the middle seats, then the aisle seats, thereby eliminating the free-for-all chaos that clogs the cabin when passengers are sent in by row numbers. 
Not to pick on United, because it is, after all, flying under bankruptcy protection and Wilma could save it millions a year. But hasn't this already been tried?
 Yes, it has. The now-defunct Shuttle by United tried it a decade ago, according to Michael J. Boyd, an airline consultant for the Boyd Group in Evergreen, Colo. Back then, he called it the product of ''a deranged M.B.A.'' He feels the same way today. ''It's not going to change anything,'' he said. ''These initiatives sound good, until it becomes clear that you are boarding humans, and not cattle. The cattle will line up and get into a pen. People won't.''
 Maybe that's why Shuttle by United's procedures quietly ended after a year. (Shuttle by United ended, too, but not because its planes took forever to board.)
 United, a unit of the UAL Corporation, bristles at Mr. Boyd's opinion. Wilma works, United claims. ''Come on, haven't you ever boarded a plane, and sat down in an aisle seat, only to have someone come up to you and say, 'Excuse me, could I get past you?''' asked Robin Urbanski, a spokeswoman for United. ''This just makes sense. It's quicker and it's more efficient.''
 Why is shaving a few minutes off the human cattle herd such a big deal? Any business traveler who has ever rushed seconds too late to a connecting flight will be happy to answer that question. And so will any airline that has found itself at either the top or the bottom of an on-time performance ranking. 
 Four out of every five United flights arrived on schedule for the 12 months ending in August, according to the United States Department of Transportation. That is slightly better than average, but it isn't a figure I dwell on when I find myself stuck on a United flight behind somebody who is trying to stuff his luggage into a bin that is already full. I'm too busy biting my tongue. 
 Reginald Lafontaine, a retired principal from Toronto, shares my frustration. As he boarded a flight from Helsinki, Finland, to New York recently, he said, the economy-class section descended into anarchy as passengers clamored about the cabin with bulky carry-ons too big for the overhead compartments. ''They spent an extra 15 minutes or more going up and down the aisles, trying to find a space for their luggage,'' he said.
 He dismisses Wilma as little more than a Band-Aid that won't begin to address the real problem. ''It's hype,'' Mr. Lafontaine said. 
 What is the fastest way to board a plane? ''Back to front,'' said Robert W. Mann, an airline analyst in Port Washington, N.Y. That's because bottlenecks do not happen only in economy class. First-class passengers also can obstruct the boarding progress as they try reach into the overheads for their laptops or make their flight attendant run into the galley for a cocktail. 
 Better yet, said Michael Miller, an aviation analyst with the Velocity Group in Washington, eliminate assigned seating. Southwest Airlines does it. ''And no one boards its planes faster than Southwest,'' he said. ''Bottom line: assigned seats delay flights.''
 I agree. Wilma represents a good start at paring the amount of time it takes to get seated on a plane. But if United and all of the network carriers were serious about reducing boarding delays, they would jettison assigned seating or any kind of preferred seating, and pack people in front to back.
 And they wouldn't let us carry all of our earthly belongings with us.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (63%) Airlines and Airplanes; Delays (Transportation)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: United Airlines

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%)

PERSON: Christopher Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



385 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 845 words

 BODY:

G.M. Reaches Tentative Deal With Union To Cut Benefits for Thousands of Retirees
Seeking a way out of its deepening financial crisis, General Motors said it had reached a tentative agreement with the United Auto Workers union to cut $1 billion worth of annual health care benefits for hundreds of thousands of American retirees. [Page A1.]

After a surge of criticism for increasing the pay of company executives while asking hourly employees to accept deep wage cuts, the chairman of Delphi said that he and other managers were reducing their salaries. [C4.]

Skyscrapers Abound Amid Building Boom in Shanghai
Shanghai is in the midst of a building boom. This year alone, the city will build towers with more space than exists in New York City. That's in a city that already has 4,000 skyscrapers, almost double the number in New York City. And there are designs to build 1,000 more by the end of this decade. [A1.]

United States Suggests Financial Modernization for China
The United States went beyond its recent call for China to increase the value of its currency as the Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, outlined a broader call for "modernizing'' China's entire financial system. [C1]

Prosecutors Widen Tax Shelter Case Against KPMG
Federal prosecutors significantly widened the criminal case against executives involved in the sale of questionable tax shelters by the accounting firm KPMG, filing dozens of criminal charges against 19 defendants. [C1.]

Swiss Biotechnology Company Settles Federal Charges
A Swiss biotechnology company, Serono, agreed to pay more than $700 million to settle federal charges that it illegally marketed an AIDS drug by concocting a dubious medical test for those with the disease and offering doctors an all-expense-paid trip to France to prescribe the drug. [C1.]

ABC Announces New Team of Anchors for 'Nightline'
ABC announced a new lineup of three anchors to succeed Ted Koppel on ''Nightline'' yesterday, in what the network hopes will lead to renewed success for the longtime award-winning news program. Terry Moran, who is now ABC's chief White House correspondent, the veteran ABC reporter Cynthia McFadden, and a newcomer from British television, Martin Bashir, will make up the threesome that, starting Nov. 28, will replace Mr. Koppel, above, who has headed the program since its inception a quarter of a century ago.The president of ABC News, David Westin, made the announcement. [E1.]

I.B.M.'s Quarterly Profit Rises 22 Percent
I.B.M. delivered a solid quarterly performance with earnings rising 22 percent and exceeding Wall Street's expectations, suggesting that corporate spending on information technology is continuing to pick up modestly. [C3.]

Citigroup Posts 35 Percent Increase in Quarterly Profit
Citigroup, the world's largest financial services company, said its third-quarter earnings rose 35 percent, helped by one-time gains on the sale of a business and by increases in trading and investment banking. [C3.]

High Court Rejects Appeal of Limit on Tobacco Damages
The Supreme Court refused to hear an appeal of a decision that limited the monetary damages the industry can be required to pay if the government prevails in its legal theory that the industry has been run as a ''racketeering enterprise'' that falsely promoted its product as harmless. [A18.]

Battle Over $20 Billion in Insurer's Stock Escalates
A legal battle over nearly $20 billion of stock in American International Group, the insurer, escalated, as lawyers for Maurice R. Greenberg, A.I.G.'s former chief executive, argued in a lawsuit that the shares belong to Starr International, which is headed by Mr. Greenberg, and not to A.I.G. [C3.]

Nortel Names Former Motorola Executive as Its Chief
Nortel Networks, a telecommunications equipment maker mired recently in an accounting scandal, named a former president of Motorola, Mike S. Zafirovski, as its new chief executive. [C9.]

Trial Rates Medtronic Device Inferior to a Rival's
Results of a clinical trial showed that Medtronic's Endeavor stent was inferior to Johnson & Johnson's Cypher at preventing the growth of scar tissue within the stent, a device used to prop open arteries after blockages have been cleared. Endeavor and Cypher are part of a new generation of stents that are coated with drugs to reduce the tendency of scar tissue to grow so aggressively that blood flow is seriously impaired. The trial results clarified the challenges Medtronic faces in entering the $3.2 billion domestic market for drug-coated stents. [C3.]

St. Jude Medical said its third-quarter profit surged, helped by two one-time gains and improved sales of its implantable cardioverter defibrillators. [C3.]

Wall Street Gains After G.M. Announces Benefits Deal
Wall Street rallied to finish moderately higher yesterday as nervous investors got some reassurance from General Motors's new labor agreement and from a favorable court ruling for cigarette makers. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.76 points, to 10,348.10; the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 3.53, to 1,190.10; and the Nasdaq rose 5.47, to 2,070.30. [C11.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Medtronic share prices since August, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (67%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); AIDS & HIV (66%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (65%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (63%); ANTIVIRALS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: KPMG (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); MERCK SERONO SA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (72%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



386 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1657 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Influence In All the Right Places

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., Oct. 13 

 BODY:
In the six weeks since Hurricane Katrina struck, Alden J. McDonald Jr. has watched the assets of Liberty Bank and Trust shrink as the bank, once thriving, has struggled through a disaster that has drowned out the homes and livelihoods of most of its customers.
 But now Mr. McDonald, the chief executive of the largest black-owned bank in New Orleans, is relying on less tangible assets to help revive the bank's fortunes: his many connections to people in powerful positions.
In recent weeks, he has met with Bill Clinton and spoken about his decimated business with the Rev. Jesse Jackson. Last month, when Mr. McDonald found himself in Atlanta on his 62nd birthday, Andrew Young, the former Atlanta mayor, put on a celebration for him. 
 Closer to home, Mayor C. Ray Nagin named Mr. McDonald, who has run Liberty since its founding in 1972, to a blue-ribbon commission on the rebuilding of New Orleans. And when Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco crashed the news conference where the mayor named the panel's members, Mr. McDonald and the governor exchanged pecks on the cheek. 
 Yet if his bank is to survive, his knight in shining armor will not be a former president. Nor will his credentials as a bona fide member of the black elite, or even his close ties to some of Louisiana's top elected officials, rescue him. 
 Instead, it is a pair of retired politicians, Robert L. Livingston Jr. and John B. Breaux, now working at two of Washington's better-known lobbying firms, who rank as Mr. McDonald's most important allies. What Mr. McDonald needs now, more than anything, are influence peddlers with lots of political sway in Washington.
 It is not the short term that Mr. McDonald or Liberty's chairman, Norman C. Francis, are fretting over. Liberty has tens of millions of dollars in reserve to cope with immediate cash shortages, caused by many of its customers being without jobs and scattered about the country, well outside the reach of a bank that has branches only in New Orleans, Baton Rouge and Jackson, Miss. Of eight New Orleans branches, seven were damaged by the storm or the subsequent looting.
 But if Liberty is to survive long term, Mr. McDonald said, it needs cash -- enough to start lending money once businesses and individuals return to New Orleans and rebuild. Commercial loans and mortgages, he said, have accounted for most of Liberty's profits in the past. 
 Largely because of their personal relationship with Mr. McDonald, Mr. Breaux and Mr. Livingston have vowed to help Liberty and other small banks along the Gulf Coast. Both have precisely the kind of deep political connections and reputations as political fixers that Mr. McDonald needs to stay afloat.
 The goal, as Mr. Livingston, who represented New Orleans as a Republican member of the House of Representatives from 1976 to 1998, explains it, is to channel at least $6 billion in federal aid through Liberty and other community banks. 
 ''Without that,'' Mr. Livingston said, ''I don't see how Liberty survives.''
 Mr. Livingston was chairman of the House Appropriations Committee through two terms and was briefly designated to become speaker of the House in 1998 until news accounts about adulterous affairs led him to withdraw his name. He resigned from the House a few months later.
 Lobbyists tend to stick to the shadows, out of public sight. Yet both Mr. Livingston and Mr. Breaux were willing to discuss the steps they have taken to help Liberty.
 ''This is a particularly acute situation given this is the largest African-American bank in New Orleans, and everything was underwater,'' said Mr. Livingston, who in 1999 established his own lobbying firm, the Livingston Group. ''This struck me very hard.'' 
 It also struck a personal chord. It was Mr. McDonald, Mr. Livingston said, who lent him the money to finish law school when no one else would. ''I've known the guy forever, but only casually,'' he said. Mr. Livingston, who said he was helping Mr. McDonald at no charge, is using his influence to press the White House for support. 
 The Bush administration could scuttle any proposal by announcing its opposition to a plan to assist smaller banks specifically, just as an endorsement could help speed a resolution through Congress.
 In mid-September, Mr. Livingston sent an e-mail message on Mr. McDonald's behalf to a presidential aide, and by day's end Mr. McDonald was talking to a White House assistant, Mr. Livingston said. ''The White House was interested in knowing how the storm affected us, and how they might help community banks. But basically they were just trying to get information,'' Mr. McDonald said. 
 Another pivotal player in any political battle over whether smaller banks on the Gulf Coast should get special consideration is Jerry Lewis of California, the current chairman of the House Appropriations Committee.
 So great is Mr. Livingston's sway inside Republican circles that he did not have to pick up the phone to contact Mr. Lewis. Instead, Mr. Lewis has phoned him several times to talk about how Congress might best help the Gulf Coast, said John Scofield, a spokesman for the committee, ''because the chairman sees him as someone who has a wealth of information and the institutional memory.'' 
 Former Senator Breaux, a Louisiana Democrat who spent 32 years in Congress before retiring in 2004, joined the law firm of Patton Boggs, which collected more lobbying fees in the first half of 2005 than any other firm, according to the Center for Public Integrity, a watchdog group based in Washington. 
 Mr. Breaux said he offered to help Mr. McDonald, whom he has known for at least 25 years, after they spoke several weeks ago. Mr. McDonald sent Mr. Breaux a list of four items he hoped to see in recovery legislation, including a temporary suspension of some banking regulations and a federal mandate requiring that a portion of all Washington aid be funneled through so-called community banks -- generally banks with less than $1 billion in assets -- in the region.
 Mr. Breaux assigned a team of Patton Boggs lawyers to the task. The list produced by that group, called the Financial Industries Working Group, has grown to an eight-point wish list. Mr. Breaux said he did not yet know what fee Patton Boggs would charge Mr. McDonald or other community banks for its services. ''What we're trying to do,'' Mr. Breaux said, ''is figure out how the federal government can help keep them open.''
 Mr. Breaux said it was too early to say who might be the most logical champion within Congress of such a bill, or even how many of those eight provisions might end up as part of any aid package. 
 The firm has spoken to members of Congress, said J. Gordon Arbuckle, a partner at Patton Boggs, but it has yet to push any specific proposal in discussions with lawmakers. ''The oven is not ready to be opened yet,'' Mr. Arbuckle said.
 Acknowledging that time is critical to Liberty and other similarly situated banks, he said the firm was considering ''interim steps to capitalize on the good will currently in evidence among certain agencies'' in Washington. 
 ''Congressional action will probably be required, but there's certain things we can do to help'' meanwhile, Mr. Arbuckle said.
 Other items on the working group's wish list are the creation of a disaster fund to purchase the bad loans of community banks hurt by Katrina, and legislation that would designate all community banks in the region as preferred lending partners.
 ''What we're saying is that we should have legislation that says, 'Give the money to the banks and let the banks administer the aid,''' Mr. McDonald said. ''Banks can do that much more efficiently than government. This is what we do, assess the risk of lending money to people.''
 Once Mr. Breaux and his staff are ready to buttonhole elected officials, the competition for their attention is certain to be fierce as every powerful Gulf Coast interest group, from the hospital and oil industries to sugar cane farmers and insurance trade groups, seeks relief on Capitol Hill. 
 Larger banks that operate along the Gulf Coast will be among those competing with Liberty for the attention of Congress, as their representatives are pushing their own set of proposals in Washington. 
 ''The case we would make for our institutions is that we have been servicing distressed communities when they were just distressed, as opposed to distressed and flooded,'' said Jennifer A. Vasiloff, executive director of the Coalition of Community Development Financial Institutions. Ms. Vasiloff's organization represents roughly 70 smaller banks and credit unions that suffered storm damage.
 Mr. Breaux agreed that community banks deserve special consideration in Washington. Banks like J.P. Morgan Chase, he said, which has a strong presence in southern Louisiana, have a far wider reach than Liberty and therefore can muddle through on their own. They might have suffered financially because of the storm, but ''if you're a large bank with branches in many, many states, you can spread the loss around,'' Mr. Breaux said.
 Both Mr. Breaux and Mr. Livingston noted that Liberty is hardly the only distressed Gulf Coast business they are representing. Mr. Breaux said his firm was working to help a number of existing clients, though he declined to identify any. 
 Mr. Livingston said that he was also representing some existing clients seeking relief in Washington. But most of his time in recent weeks, he said, has been devoted to trying in any way he can to help businesses in his old Congressional district. 
 ''We've been helping everybody we could,'' he said. More than half of the groups getting his attention, Mr. Livingston said, ''never were clients of ours and never will be.'' 

A Bank Rebuilds
 Articles in this series will periodically examine the struggle by the Liberty Bank and Trust Company to recover from Hurricane Katrina. Previous articles are online at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Heavy hitters in politics and lobbying who have been enlisted to help Liberty Bank are, clockwise from top left, Bill Clinton, Gov. Kathleen Blanco, Jesse Jackson, John Breaux, Andrew Young and Robert Livingston. (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Mayor C. Ray Nagin of New Orleans, right, discussed ways of revitalizing the city's economy last month. (Photo by Robyn Beck/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); HURRICANES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); POLITICS (71%); LOBBYING (64%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (60%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%); GOVERNORS (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LIBERTY BANK & TRUST OF OKLAHAOMA CITY (58%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); ROBERT A LIVINGSTON (79%); JESSE JACKSON (76%); KATHLEEN BLANCO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (92%); JACKSON, MS, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



387 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Fearing Ukrainian-Style Uprising, Belarus Cracks Down

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MINSK, Belarus, Oct. 14 

 BODY:
Ten men gathered in a dim three-room apartment one recent evening to plan the unseating of this country's autocratic president, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko.
 They have little money, no slogans, no songs and, so far, no color like the orange that thousands rallied around during the popular uprising last year in Ukraine.
 What they have is a hope, admittedly slight, that the wave of democracy that washed over Ukraine and other former Soviet republics in the last two years might next hit here.
 ''Lukashenko has exhausted the possibility of strengthening his power,'' said Aleksandr Milinkevich, a physicist who leads an improbable coalition of politicians and civic leaders mounting an even more improbable challenge in the election for president next year. 
 ''Sometimes he thinks if he raises wages a bit, people will love him again, but not everything is measured by bread and salo,'' he said, referring to the salted pork fat that is consid ered a delicacy in this part of the world. ''There is such a notion as human dignity.''
 Few here or abroad believe that Belarus's beleaguered opposition can win the election, expected before July. But with American and European support, its effort is shaping up as a new struggle over democracy in what was once the Soviet Union. It is likely to inflame tensions not only with Mr. Lukashenko's government, but also with that of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, who opposes Western efforts to democratize former Soviet republics.
 ''There will be a road to democracy in Belarus,'' Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice declared in April after meeting with Mr. Lukashenko's opponents in neighboring Lithuania, calling his government ''the last dictatorship in the center of Europe.''
 It is hard to overestimate how difficult that road will be.
 Mr. Lukashenko, first elected as a corruption-fighting reformer in 1994, has ruled this country of 10 million with ever increasing authoritarianism, weakening the other branches of government and stifling independent news media and businesses. He is able to run because of a referendum last year lifting the constitutional limits on his term, a vote that was widely denounced as illegitimate.
 When people gathered then on October Square in Minsk to protest that referendum, police officers in riot gear swiftly suppressed them, beating and arresting dozens. They have done so repeatedly during all public manifestations of dissent ever since.
 ''The Belarussian authorities are particularly concerned with preventing any small thing from becoming a big thing,'' a senior diplomat here said, speaking on condition of anonymity because of diplomatic protocol. ''They're not going to let people put up tents in October Square.''
 As it has in the months before previous elections, Mr. Lukashenko's government has intensified efforts to stifle any voices of opposition.
 A former student, Nikita Sasim, when asked about his arrest, replied, ''Which one?'' He was expelled from a university last year, like dozens of others, and served 10 days in prison after joining the underground youth movement Zubr. Last month he was beaten at an unauthorized rally. On Oct. 7 he was arrested after posting anti-Lukashenko leaflets and held over the weekend by the secret service, still known, as in Soviet times, as the K.G.B.
 ''The pressure from the authorities,'' he said, ''is becoming stronger.''
 Mr. Lukashenko has closed independent organizations by forcing them to reregister with the government, then denying permission to those deemed disloyal. This summer security forces raided the Union of Poles, a group that represents the ethnic Polish minority, prompting a dispute with Poland.
 A decree by the president requires all government employees -- in a country where the state controls 80 percent of the economy -- to work under one-year contracts, which dissenters say are used to enforce loyalty.
 The state media distribution monopoly last month ordered newspaper stands to stop selling the last independent daily newspaper, Narodnaya Bolya, or People's Will. The order, denounced by the European Union as an assault on a free press, has left its survival in doubt.
 ''They are trying to mop up the media, so that the voters can receive information from only one source,'' said the editor, Iosif Seredich.
 Mr. Milinkevich, the opposition leader, said the events in Ukraine last year, when thousands poured into the streets to protest a rigged election for president, inspired many Belarussians. But he noted the essential ingredients of the Orange Revolution that are lacking here.
 ''They had television, radio, newspapers,'' he said. ''They had oligarchs who supported them. Our rich businessmen who support us are either in prison or abroad.''
 Mr. Lukashenko's opponents do have support abroad. The United States has pledged $5 million to support democracy in Belarus, but it has not detailed how the money would be spent. The European Union is paying the German radio channel Deutsche Welle to broadcast into the country, prompting complaints of cold-war-like tactics from Belarus and Russia.
 ''The West will not spare any expenses,'' Mr. Lukashenko said earlier this year. A popular uprising like Ukraine's, he said, is ''the last thing that we need.''
 There are indications, though, that external pressure -- and the continued isolation of Mr. Lukashenko and several other officials, who are prohibited from traveling in Europe -- may be having some impact.
 Mr. Lukashenko agreed last month to allow 800 representatives of the opposition to meet in a cultural center in Minsk. After meeting on Oct. 1 and 2, delegates from across the political spectrum, from Communists to liberals, selected Mr. Milinkevich as a unified opposition candidate.
 Mr. Milinkevich, a professor and television commentator, once served as a deputy mayor in Grodno and then headed an independent organization, which Mr. Lukashenko's government banned in 2001.
 Belarussians, he said, are ready for a change in leadership, something suggested by opinion polls. The main challenge is to overcome people's fear of openly opposing Mr. Lukashenko's state. 
 ''We are only for a peaceful election,'' said Mr. Milinkevich, who has been arrested and fined but has not led the street protests. ''We do not want blood. And if we have to come out to defend our choice, then we shall go out on the streets, but without stones or pistols.''
 For all its control, he added, Mr. Lukashenko's government has fissures in popular support and in the support of those now on its side.
 ''If 100,000 people come out on the streets, I don't think that the government will stand,'' he said. ''One general, during an illegal rally in Minsk, said if you come out with 2,000, we will continue to beat you, as we have. But if we see that 100,000 come out in the street, then we will join you.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Aleksandr Milinkevich, the leader of a newly formed Belarussian opposition coalition, in its headquarters, a small, run-down apartment in Minsk. (Photo by James Hill for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); REFERENDUMS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); CORRUPTION (67%); RIOTS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) Elections; Freedom and Human Rights; Politics and Government; United States International Relations

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (77%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (54%) Steven Lee Myers; Aleksandr G (Pres) Lukashenko; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin

GEOGRAPHIC: BELARUS (98%); UKRAINE (95%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LITHUANIA (79%) Belarus; Russia; Europe; Belarus

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



388 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; THE INCUMBENT: The Manager as Mayor; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3552 words

HEADLINE: While Aides Get Free Hand, Bloomberg Measures Results

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
Barely 12 hours after winning the 2001 mayoral election, Michael R. Bloomberg, still dazed and hoarse from late-night celebrations and early-morning television interviews, wandered into his Midtown campaign office, turned to a key member of his transition team and asked only half-jokingly, ''Now what do we do?'' 
 It was no small question for a man who had never held elected office, had never worked in government and had known only a rarefied slice of the complex metropolis over which he would now preside. He did not even know the names of many of the city agencies he would soon be overseeing.
Mr. Bloomberg, a self-made billionaire, seemed to have pursued his campaign on a dare, and had given scant thought to the nuts and bolts of running the city. On more than one occasion, he openly admitted that his bid was a long shot, and it did not seem necessary to think much past Election Day. Only the night before, as he awaited the results, he told his mother, then 92, that there would be no shame in losing because he had run an admirable race. 
 Yet if Mr. Bloomberg showed a rare sliver of self-doubt the morning after his surprise victory, it did not last very long. Hardly more than a year after taking office, the mayor took control of the schools from a politicized Board of Education, angered many New Yorkers by banning smoking in bars and restaurants, and imposed the largest property tax increase in city history after running on a ''no new taxes'' platform. 
 But perhaps more significant, he reshaped the way the mayor's office runs New York, applying a results-based approach to almost every area of city government, and largely appointing his commissioners based on expertise and giving them nearly free rein to determine policy regardless of political consequences. It was a 180-degree turn from the administration of his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, when even the hiring of secretaries was handled by a circle of mayoral confidants and commissioners were closely watched and controlled. 
 Four years after his election, even Mr. Bloomberg's critics give him credit for using a corporate executive's by-the-numbers approach to nurse the city back to health from the devastation of the Sept. 11 attack, while risking his own popularity in the process. 
 After an extremely challenging first two years as mayor, Mr. Bloomberg is heading into the fall with an enviable list of accomplishments for any incumbent seeking re-election: crime is down from already very low levels, school test scores are up, and unemployment is down from its post-9/11 heights. And he is often credited with helping to soothe race relations in the city. 
 Mr. Bloomberg seems to have successfully debunked the early theories that he would never be able to fill the hero-size shoes of Mr. Giuliani. Democrats now complain that he is getting outsize credit for being the antithesis of Mr. Giuliani: Where Mr. Giuliani used his office as a bully pulpit and reveled in public fights, Mr. Bloomberg generally tries to avoid them, preferring to make his case in personal settings, over golf or food.
 But Mr. Bloomberg's constituents have also had to deal with the sometimes troubling fallout of a mayor who trusts headstrong aides with major public initiatives. When his deputy mayor for economic development, Daniel L. Doctoroff, pushed for a West Side stadium as part of his decade-long vision of bringing the Olympics to New York, the plan became a political quagmire that angered neighborhood residents, drew lawsuits from the owners of Madison Square Garden and was ultimately killed by leaders in Albany who did not feel they were adequately consulted on the plan. And the mayor's signature initiative of improving the public schools has often been met with resistance by the city's educators, with teachers and others saying that the chancellor, Joel I. Klein, has failed to bring them on as partners in the effort.
 And for every compliment that Mr. Bloomberg pursues his agenda with only the city's best interest at heart, there is a complaint that he brooks no dissent once his mind is made up, sometimes taking as personal affronts questions about his motives or approach.
 As he campaigns for a second term, Mr. Bloomberg's personal style remains an uneasy fit in the city politic. He says that he has no political ambition beyond the mayoralty and that by paying for campaigns with his own money, he can operate without the usual pressures that afflict politicians. 
 But the political world is no less curious to Mr. Bloomberg, who says he has found it a far more confusing and self-serving place than the Wall Street he left behind, even as he has struggled to learn its ways. ''I love governing,'' he said during an interview this month at City Hall. ''I don't like politics.''

Wall Street Ways at City Hall
 Mr. Bloomberg's close circle of advisers got an early indication of what the next four years would hold one December evening in 2001 when they to took him on a secret, late-night tour of his new work environment at City Hall. 
 Wandering through the cavernous Board of Estimate chamber on the building's second floor, Mr. Bloomberg said he would make his office there, forsaking an ornate private enclave that was the inner sanctum for previous mayors and their closest aides. The mayor-elect said he would create a huge workspace that would be just like the open-air trading room in which he worked at Salomon Brothers and later recreated at his private company, Bloomberg L.P.
 He would put his desk in the middle of the room and seat his top deputies and staff members around him, he said. Dozens of other aides would sit at cubicles placed side by side, ensuring the access of lower-ranking managers to the mayor's inner circle and bringing with it more accountability.
 The aides recoiled, telling him that to put his office there would be to break with 190 years of history.
 ''This is the mayor's side of the building, right?'' he said, according to Kevin Sheekey, his chief political strategist, who recalled the conversation during a recent interview. ''I'm the mayor, right?'' In short, a Wall Street sensibility had arrived at City Hall.
 The increased accessibility was one of many changes large and small that Mr. Bloomberg brought to his stewardship of the city. He would not live in Gracie Mansion. His schools chancellor would no longer work in Brooklyn but would be based in the Tweed Courthouse near City Hall. And in a decision that threatened to reinforce the image his Democratic opponent, Mark Green, had tried to paint of him as an out-of-touch billionaire, the mayor would not let reporters know when he left town on weekends for one of his several vacation houses.
 Edward Skyler, the mayor's communications director, said he warned Mr. Bloomberg that he risked alienating the news media if he failed to disclose when he was heading for his beach home in Bermuda. But when the question first arose, Mr. Bloomberg said, ''We just have to say, 'No, this is my personal life.'''
 The mayor's close aides learned they had to live by his whims. And to this day, some of Mr. Bloomberg's deputies bristle under the bullpen system. ''It's not my particular cup of tea, but he's the mayor and it actually does works for him,'' said Marc V. Shaw, the first deputy mayor, during a recent conversation in what is in effect his secondary office -- the outdoor garden behind City Hall where he regularly he plants himself, cigar in mouth, cellphone in ear. Others have their own hiding places.
 During the interview at City Hall, Mr. Bloomberg said the office setup had been critical to his management style. ''It promotes cooperation,'' he said. ''When people aren't happy, you see it. When people aren't getting along, you see it. People also want to feel included, and everybody wants -- I keep saying this -- recognition and respect.''
 Just as Mr. Bloomberg's bullpen has eliminated privacy for his staff, it has also eliminated privacy for him. He is there for all to see, sometimes shoeless, barking orders from his chair, asking a deputy mayor for information or asking his assistant to place a call to his mother or two daughters. 
 And he is on public display for his occasional fits of temper, as when he snaps over an open refrigerator door or a dirty fish tank in the bullpen, according to one staff member who has had an up-close seat for outbursts. This person, who agreed to speak candidly on condition of anonymity to avoid the mayor's ire, said Mr. Bloomberg was more a cranky uncle than an abusive father in such moments, which, this person added, have grown less frequent as his comfort level in the job has risen.
 Mr. Bloomberg exercises control over the city much like Mel Karmazin, the former Viacom chief, famously did at his company: by closely monitoring the numbers produced by a team of star department heads who are free to run their agencies as they see fit so long as they meet strict production targets. 
 It is a strategy grounded in his experience in the business world. Mr. Bloomberg spent 15 years on Wall Street with Salomon Brothers, working his way from a $9,000-a-year position in its bank vault to a partner in charge of running the firm's information systems department. Pushed out of the firm in 1981, he then earned billions by using his $10 million severance to create a machine that compiled and analyzed real-time data from the financial markets to help traders gain an edge.
 As mayor he has tried create a similar system from which to govern. Data analysis is religion for Mr. Bloomberg, and numbers are the lifeblood of his administration. They drive policy rather than just track progress.
 It was in large part in the pursuit of more city data that Mr. Bloomberg created the 311 help line. It provides one-stop shopping for people seeking information about everything from parking rules to trash pickups. But perhaps more significant, residents' grievances on the line are also stored in a database so the city can immediately identify a festering problem area, and react.
 Linda Gibbs, Mr. Bloomberg's homeless services commissioner, said she began the first citywide census of homeless people on the streets this year guided by the mayor's results-based approach. The census provoked serious debate within the administration, she said, because by creating a new set of numbers ''you're taking the risk it could go in the wrong direction.''
 ''His reaction was,'' she said, ''you're not going to be able to overcome an issue unless you really understand it.''
 Ms. Gibbs said that at the height of a homeless crisis in 2003, she presented Mr. Bloomberg with a chart showing some good news: an alarming rise in the number of people in shelters was finally stabilizing. But the mayor was not content, and drew a line pointing downward from the plateau on the chart, saying, ''Come back when it looks like that.''
 Such an approach has helped drive nearly all of the city's major indices in positive directions, just in time for Mr. Bloomberg's re-election campaign. But the approach has often drawn criticism, particularly on the schools front, with educators saying the administration is obsessed with test scores at the expense of a more holistic approach to improving student performance.
 And some advocacy groups have complained that Mr. Bloomberg's overall push for immediate results can be shortsighted. Paul Steely White, executive director of Transportation Alternatives, an advocacy group, credited the statistical focus with the city's improved performance in filling potholes, paving roads and reducing traffic fatalities. Still, he said, ''There's just not much happening in terms of long-range planning'' on improving the infrastructure of a growing city. 
 Mr. White, who often works closely with the Department of Transportation, said commissioners have been given ''some very tight parameters: take care of business here and you'll be more or less left alone.''

For His Aides, Long Leashes
 Friends of the mayor, who is 63, say he has not let his new job take over his life. Before becoming mayor, Mr. Bloomberg, who is divorced, had an active social schedule, and colleagues say still he tries to attend as many dinner parties as he can. Except these days, his companion of many years, Diana Taylor, the state banking superintendent, is just as likely to spend evenings with him at a community meeting as at a social function. 
 The mayor's friends marvel at his ability to drink with relish at a dinner or at a cocktail party and then plow ahead with his usual routine: up at 5 a.m. to jog several miles on his treadmill and, except when there are breakfast meetings at his corner greasy spoon, at his office by 7:15 a.m. Aides say he reads several newspapers -- from the major dailies to the civil service broadsheet called The Chief -- before his daily morning meeting with top staff members in the bullpen, where they set the agenda for the day. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's aides speak proudly of the latitude the mayor gives his commissioners and deputies.
 Peter Madonia, the mayor's chief of staff, recounted recently how he signed off on an ultimately politically explosive plan at the height of the homeless crisis to place some families in the former Bronx house of detention for men. ''There was a series of horrific articles on it, and I was really upset,'' Mr. Madonia said. One day he said, 'Don't worry, we did what we thought was right, it got us over a tough hump and we'll move past this.' No second-guessing. He could have been angry. Those are important things to know.''
 Mr. Bloomberg's faith in his commissioners has occasionally alarmed his political aides, who were less than thrilled, for instance, when he decided to back his health commissioner's idea for a smoking ban in bars. Mr. Skyler angrily took it up with the commissioner, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, demanding in the middle of the bullpen, ''What are you thinking?'' several aides recalled.
 But it was too late. The mayor had already bought into the plan. And once that happens, there is rarely any turning back. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's deputies say he invites dissenting views as he weighs options, even relishing shouting matches in the process.
 Dennis M. Walcott, Mr. Bloomberg's deputy mayor for policy, recalled one heated debate over education between him and the mayor that remained unresolved at the end of a meeting. As he walked out of the meeting room to welcome arriving guests, he said, the mayor shouted from behind him, ''Stop moving when I'm yelling at you!'' 
 He said the mayor did not let sore feelings linger, and later, as another deputy mayor approached Mr. Bloomberg in the bullpen, ''He joked, 'I hope this deputy mayor treats me better; the last deputy mayor barked at the mayor.'''
 But for all of the back and forth, ''Once he makes a decision,'' Mr. Madonia said, ''the troops are lined up, and that's it.''
 Officials say that is key to understanding why he pushed so hard for a West Side stadium to the detriment of his own standing in polls. Opponents and allies alike theorized that Mr. Bloomberg did so out of misplaced loyalty to his economic development czar, Mr. Doctoroff. But aides said he had come around to Mr. Doctoroff's thinking.
 Mr. Doctoroff said that on two occasions he approached the mayor and offered to withdraw the plan, saying: ''The most important thing is, in my view, that you are re-elected. None of this is worth you losing the election over.''' Mr. Doctoroff said the mayor had shrugged him off, adding: ''He dismissed me, and said, 'I believe this is the right thing.' What more could you ever ask?''
 Mr. Bloomberg said he sees a certain purity in his pursuits because they are not influenced by moneyed contributors or his ties to political interests. ''From the beginning, people understood that there was not the traditional ways of getting to me,'' he boasted. ''Most elected officials are dependent for help and therefore are willing to be more open to pressure, if you will.''
 Even some critics give him credit for having a City Hall that is as patronage-free as any they have seen.
 Yet some of Mr. Bloomberg's peers say that perceived purity gives him exceeding confidence in his own judgment and that of his people, which they alternatively describe as admirable or bull-headed and sometimes unhelpful to his own aims.

Outreach and Grudges
 After he was elected mayor in 2001, Mr. Bloomberg tried to send a signal immediately that he would be unlike his predecessor, Mr. Giuliani, who reveled in public fights and often alienated leaders in minority communities during his two terms as mayor. Mr. Bloomberg's aides recently recalled how he decided to handle the uneasy situation of having to meet the Rev. Al Sharpton for the first time, at a dinner banquet days after his election. The interaction would be closely watched, and how he handled it could set the tone for the next four years with Mr. Sharpton, whom Mr. Giuliani had pointedly ignored. ''He goes, 'If he's there, I'll shake his hand,''' recalled William T. Cunningham, a senior adviser to the mayor. '''It'll be over and done with.'''
 Mr. Bloomberg did just that and it impressed Mr. Sharpton sufficiently enough to defuse the potential for a very adversarial relationship. Mr. Sharpton, in fact, has credited Mr. Bloomberg's early entreaties with helping to set a new tone for race relations in the city.
 In another of his first moves, he dispatched his sister, Marjorie Tiven, a social worker, to establish a personal connection with Mary Brosnahan Sullivan, the executive director of Coalition for the Homeless, who had been persona non grata in Mr. Giuliani's City Hall.
 But that emphasis on personal ties has a flip side. If the mayor feels betrayed, he will hold a grudge, say people who believe they have been on the other side of one.
 Ms. Sullivan said that she was surprised to learn a few months ago that she was banned from participating in a news conference at which the mayor was to announce a trust fund for affordable housing that her group had been working to establish. She said she was told by a fellow advocate upon arriving for the event that the mayor had asked that she be kept away from the podium because of what he saw as her unfair critiques during his term.
 She also said that years of charitable donations from Mr. Bloomberg dried up as soon as she began criticizing the administration and that intermediaries had told her that she should not bother asking for any.
 Mr. Skyler disputed her account of the news conference, saying the mayor had made no such request. But he did indicate that the mayor had soured on the coalition, saying, ''The mayor respects advocacy, but he does not respect advocacy for the sake of advocacy.''
 Randi Weingarten, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, said her relationship with the mayor took a sour turn after she filed suit against the Board of Education in the spring of 2003 over its plan to lay off classroom aides. ''The mayor took it very personally, it took a very long time to repair that relationship,'' she said.
 And the mayor is openly disdainful of the public brinkmanship that is so part of New York's political culture. Mr. Bloomberg said that in his job as mayor, he had been most frustrated by the amount of what he frequently called horse trading.
 One city councilman, Charles Barron, learned that when he tried to negotiate with the mayor over the 2003 budget and argued that the mayor should reverse plans to reduce the number of city firehouses.
 Mr. Bloomberg, frustrated by the haggling, shouted angrily that he did not care, using colorful language, ''if you vote for my budget or not,'' Mr. Barron recalled in an interview. ''I think he has a real thin veil once you push his button. Remember, he's a C.E.O. used to having his way.''
 Mr. Bloomberg said that he remembered the conversation differently but that he had found the negotiation process in politics much different from that of the business world. ''In business, not with everybody but generally, the objective is to get something done that you're talking about,'' he said. ''Here it's more horse trading. The issues tend to be, 'I'll vote for this if you give me something that's totally unrelated.' The discussion is not about the merits of the particular subject.''
 ''It disappointed me,'' he said.
 Yet the mayor has been forced to adapt. During the battle over the stadium, the administration offered Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the State Assembly, a huge array of goodies for his district -- a new school, new parks, new tax incentives for businesses in his area -- in a failed bid to get support for the plan. 
 And his critics tend to object to his claims of being apolitical, noting, for instance, his new, election-year opposition to a freight tunnel that is woefully unpopular in a politically important area of Maspeth, Queens. He had previously called its financing ''a priority.''
 Still, even now the mayor sees himself as something of a stranger to the political scene. 
 ''Keep in mind, I'm not the average officeholder at the mayoral level or any other level,'' Mr. Bloomberg said during the interview. ''I'm not beholden to anybody; I didn't take any money. I had a freedom, I think, to go and to do things my way.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about Michael R. Bloomberg's management style gave an incorrect attribution in some copies for a statement by an aide, recalling the way Mr. Bloomberg planned to handle his first meeting, at a banquet, with the Rev. Al Sharpton. It was William T. Cunningham, a senior adviser, not Edward Skyler, the mayor's communications director, who said: ''He goes, 'If he's there, I'll shake his hand. It'll be over and done with.'''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Bloomberg meeting with Verna Eggleston, left, commissioner of the Human Resources Administration
John Mattingly, commissioner of the Administration for Children's Services
and Linda Gibbs, commissioner of the Department of Homeless Services. In foreground is Marc V. Shaw, the first deputy mayor. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)
Mayor Bloomberg has a less confrontational style than his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, right, preferring more personal settings. (Photo by Brad Rickerby/Reuters)(pg. B5)
 Mayor Bloomberg at City Hall, in his bullpen-style office. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX INCREASES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); ACADEMIC TESTING (65%); SMOKING (64%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); CRIME RATES (64%); TAX LAW (64%); RACE & RACISM (50%) Election Issues; Mayors; Surveys and Series

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) Jim Rutenberg; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



389 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1958 words

HEADLINE: G.M. AND UNION IN A DEAL TO CUT HEALTH BENEFITS

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Jeremy W. Peters, in Detroit, and Milt Freudenheim, in New York, contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
General Motors said on Monday that it had reached a tentative agreement with the United Automobile Workers union to cut $1 billion in annual health care benefits for more than 750,000 blue-collar workers, retirees and their families as part of an effort to climb out of a financial crisis.
 ''This is a very big step forward that we will build on,'' said Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chairman and chief executive. He called it ''the single biggest cost reduction that we've probably been able to announce in a single day in the history of G.M.''
Even as it disclosed the breakthrough with its union on Monday, G.M. reported a $1.6 billion third-quarter loss, its largest quarterly loss in more than a decade. 
 In a further reflection of its financial distress, the company, which has lost nearly $4 billion so far this year, said it would seek to sell a majority stake in the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, the financial services giant that is G.M.'s most steady profit center. The possible sale, along with the deal, encouraged investors on Wall Street. 
 But for the union, the tentative agreement to cut health care benefits is the biggest strategy shift since the early 1980's, when the U.A.W. made a wave of concessions to head off a bankruptcy filing by Chrysler. 
 This time, with the future of the entire domestic auto industry increasingly at risk, union leaders agreed late Sunday night, after several months of negotiations, to reopen their labor contract before it expires in 2007. 
 Although the specifics of the agreement have not been disclosed, health policy experts said that in shifting more costs to workers and retirees, G.M. still appeared to be years behind big companies in most other industries. And the benefits that G.M.'s retirees retain will probably remain the envy of many other retired Americans. [Page C1.] 
 Retirees covered by union contracts in other industries pay a bigger share of health care costs. At the big telecommunications companies retirees pay more, and companies like Verizon have added wireless units that do not have unions and offer less-generous benefits. 
 Still, while the challenges of the American labor movement came into sharp relief this year when some prominent unions split from the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the retreat of the U.A.W. on Monday sends a further signal about just how difficult it has become for American labor unions to preserve previously won gains. 
 Among industrial unions, none have won richer contracts than the U.A.W., at least for Big Three assembly workers and retirees, many of whom pay no monthly premiums, deductibles or co-payments beyond those for prescription drugs. 
 That will change, though G.M. and the union declined to give details of specific cuts because local union leaders had not yet been informed of the agreement's details. 
 G.M. shares rose $2.11, or 7.5 percent, to $30.09. 
 The Ford Motor Company and Chrysler, now a division of DaimlerChrysler, are already discussing health care cost cuts with the union and will seek similar concessions, since all three Detroit-based companies negotiate labor contracts in tandem. 
 ''We can't be put at a competitive disadvantage,'' said Jason Vines, Chrysler's vice president for communications. 
 The health care agreement would trim about $15 billion from G.M.'s future retiree health care liability, which is $61 billion for hourly retirees and $77 billion including salaried retirees. It will also cut G.M.'s annual health care expenses by $3 billion before taxes, and save it about $1 billion a year of cash, out of a nearly $6 billion annual medical bill.
 In a significant concession to the union, G.M. agreed to make $3 billion in contributions by 2011 to a special fund set up to offset the benefits cuts. 
 ''The tentative agreement on health care matters is the result of an in-depth analysis of G.M.'s financial situation and many weeks of intense discussion between the U.A.W. and G.M.,'' said Ron Gettelfinger, the union president, and Richard Shoemaker, the union's lead G.M. negotiator, in a joint statement. 
 The three Detroit automobile companies are among a handful of large employers that do not ask retirees, 65 or older, to contribute to premiums, according to Watson Wyatt, a benefits consulting firm. 
 In a survey of 458 employers that had retiree health plans early this year, all but 23 required contributions by retirees. Besides autos, the 23 included 3 drug manufacturers and 8 hospital and health services employers. 
 ''Telecommunications retirees have had deductibles and co-pays for some years,'' said Bruce Taylor, a former Verizon benefits official who is a consultant with Associates & Wilson in Rosemont, Pa. The union also agreed to contribute part of the monthly premium when a cost ceiling is breached, but this has not yet happened, he added.
 At SBC Communications, most active and retired workers will switch to high-deductible health savings plans next year but individuals still will not contribute to premiums. Coverage including a spouse will cost $143 a month. SBC pays 70 percent of employee and retiree health costs, Walter Sharp, a spokesman, said.
 ''Even the granddad companies that maintained these benefits are on a track moving away from it,'' said Dallas Salisbury, president of the Employee Benefit Research Institute, a nonprofit research center in Washington. 
 Local union leaders from around the country were summoned to a meeting Thursday in Detroit to discuss the details of the plan, and a ratification vote could come as early as this weekend. A person briefed on the agreement said it would impose deductibles and co-payments beyond those for prescription drugs. 
 Retirees, braced for bad news, were waiting to hear the details. 
 ''All you have to do is declare bankruptcy and you can run away from your contract, so the retirees expect the leaders will have to do something to avoid G.M. declaring bankruptcy,'' said Stan Marshall, 76, a retired G.M. worker and former U.A.W. official who lives near Flint, Mich. He said many retirees were supporting children who had lost jobs in Michigan, a state that has one of the nation's highest unemployment rates.
 Retirees, however, will probably still have benefits that many other American retirees would envy, if not the eye-popping benefits they have now. Many retirees currently have co-payments of only about $10 for prescription drugs. G.M., which insures 1.1 million Americans, spends about $1,500 per car produced in the United States on health care, more than it spends on steel and believed to be about $1,000 more than Toyota spends per car. 
 Dorothy Bailey, 75, retired early from General Motors in 1967 after just a decade, but still gets benefits. Now, she said, if the cost of medical coverage goes up too much she will have to make choices like whether to spend money on pills or groceries.
 ''It's going to hurt me bad,'' she said. ''But do we have a choice? No we don't.'' 
 But Ms. Bailey, a former assembly line worker from Belleville, Mich., said she knew that her benefits were vulnerable because of G.M.'s financial troubles, and she said she expected to shoulder some of the burden. ''I can understand that we're going to have to take some cuts; it has to be. I just have to accept what is.''
 While a deal on health care had been expected, the announcement that the company would seek to sell a majority stake in G.M.A.C. was more of a surprise. The division, which offers everything from car loans to home mortgages to insurance, has been constrained by G.M.'s junk bond ratings, which make it more costly to issue bonds. 
 Robert Hinchliffe, an analyst at UBS, said such a sale could reap $10 billion to $15 billion, though it would also require the company to divide up the division's profits. The three major credit ratings agencies said a sale of a majority stake in G.M.A.C. to an investment grade company could lead them to give G.M.A.C. a higher rating than that of G.M. 
 Many financial analysts see Monday's announcement as a positive step for G.M. But they say much more still needs to be done as the company struggles on a number of fronts, most notably in its failure to make enough cars and trucks that American consumers will buy without heavy discounting. High gas prices have also hurt a company reliant on sales of large sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks. 
 ''It's reflective of the sense of urgency both sides felt,'' said David Cole, the chairman of the Center for Automotive Research, an industry consulting firm. ''The U.A.W. saw the handwriting on the wall. They feared a nuclear option, like killing health care benefits for retirees.''
 Included among the pressures on Mr. Wagoner to take aggressive steps is the emergence of the billionaire financier Kirk Kerkorian as one of G.M.'s newest, and largest, shareholders. Mr. Wagoner said of Mr. Kerkorian, ''we've obviously talked with him, but beyond that I really don't have anything I want to comment on today.'' Mr. Kerkorian indicated recently that his investment firm, Tracinda, might seek a seat on G.M.'s board.
 G.M. also reiterated its plan to cut 25,000 American blue-collar jobs, but suggested that its plans for cuts and plant closings could come sooner than its previous timeline, which was by the end of 2008.
 Mr. Wagoner said he would have further restructuring announcements by the end of the year, adding that the company would also continue cutting salaried workers. All of the cuts in jobs, benefits and other areas are aimed at saving $5 billion annually by the end of 2006.
 When Mr. Wagoner and other executives said in March and April that they needed major health care concessions from the union, they spoke of forcing more ambitious cutbacks on the union. In recent months, G.M. had sought the kind of cuts it won Monday, while the union had made counteroffers of cuts totaling several hundred million dollars. 
 That the union agreed to G.M.'s demands shows how labor leaders in a range of industries, from airlines to steel, have been increasingly under assault. 
 The U.A.W. already has plenty of troubles on its plate. Earlier this month, G.M.'s former parts division, Delphi, filed for bankruptcy protection, saying it would seek sharp labor concessions, including wages as low as $10 an hour for workers. 
 Delphi is also weighing heavily on G.M., which said Monday that Delphi's bankruptcy filing could increase its future liabilities by as much as $12 billion, up from its previous estimate of no more than $11 billion. When Delphi was spun off in 1999, G.M. agreed to pay a large amount of health and pension benefits due Delphi retirees.
 ''It's a one-two punch, and the second one hasn't landed yet,'' said Eldon Renaud, president of a union local in Bowling Green, Ky., referring to the Delphi filing and the fact that he did not yet know the fine print of the G.M. deal.
 If anything, the company's third-quarter results only reinforced how much work needed to be done to right G.M.'s North American operations, which lost $1.6 billion in the quarter, compared with an $88 million loss a year earlier. The company's share of the North American market fell to 25.6 percent from 28.5 percent a year earlier, as the effects of its offer of employee discounts to buyers waned. Efforts to revitalize its car and truck offerings have yet to payoff. 
 Over all, G.M. lost $1.6 billion, or $2.89 a share, and $1.92 a share excluding special charges, well below Wall Street's expectations. G.M.'s European operations lost $105 million in the quarter, compared with a loss of $236 million a year earlier. Asia Pacific operations earned $176 million, up from $78 million. Earnings at G.M.A.C. rose to $675 million in the quarter from $620 million a year earlier.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 20, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Tuesday about an agreement between General Motors and the United Automobile Workers to curtail health benefits for employees and retirees misstated the scope of planned revisions at another big employer, SBC Communications. (The error also occurred in an article in Business Day the same day about the effect on G.M. retirees.) The changes affect active or retired salaried employees not covered by union contracts -- not those covered by contracts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rick Wagoner, the chairman of G.M., announced the tentative agreement yesterday in Detroit. The details have not been disclosed, but the union could vote on the deal as early as this weekend. (Photo by J. Kyle Keener/Detroit Free Press, via Associated Press)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Not a Pretty Picture''G.M.'s auto sales dwarf the revenue brought in by its finance operations, but only the finance operations have been profitable lately. That has eroded the company's reserves.Graphs track G.M.'s auto sales and revenue brought in by its finance operations since 2003.(Source by General Motors)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONTRACT AWARDS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Automobiles; Labor; Organized Labor; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining); Fringe Benefits ; Bankruptcies; Automobiles; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Automobiles

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%) United Automobile Workers; General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%); VZC (LSE) (52%); VZ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (74%) Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



390 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health&Fitness; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Bayer Offers New Antibiotic With Promise in Fight on TB 

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
Dr. Wafaa El-Sadr, who treats tuberculosis patients in central Harlem and in Durban, South Africa, believes that a new drug for tuberculosis is needed ''absolutely desperately.''
 No new medication has been registered for 40 years, she points out. And one of the four drugs she prescribes for new patients clashes with an important H.I.V. drug, meaning that patients who have both the AIDS virus and tuberculosis -- as more than half of her New York patients and 80 percent of her African patients do -- cannot fight both at the same time. ''Every new TB drug is precious,'' Dr. El-Sadr said. ''That's why what Bayer is doing is a big deal.'' 
 In an unusual step, Bayer Healthcare announced yesterday that it had agreed to allow its most promising new antibiotic, moxifloxacin, be tested against tuberculosis, a disease that kills 5,000 people a day and is the immediate cause of death for a third of the world's AIDS victims. If the antibiotic substantially shortens TB treatment, which now typically lasts six months, the company will make millions of doses and sell them at low prices to poor countries.
 Bayer's decision is unusual because major drug companies rarely test their best-selling patented antibiotics against diseases of the poor -- and virtually never test them against tuberculosis -- for fear of hurting sales in rich countries. Bayer makes about $500 million a year from moxifloxacin, which it sells in the United States as Avelox and elsewhere as Avalox, Avelon, Megaxin, Actira and Izilox. 
 The company hopes to have $1 billion in annual sales of the drug soon, according to Dr. Wolfgang Plischke, head of Bayer's pharmaceutical division. First marketed in 1999, moxifloxacin the company's heir apparent to ciprofloxacin, a related antibiotic that, sold as Cipro and other names, has earned billions of dollars but its patent will soon expire.
 Bayer's decision is part of a contract with the Global Alliance for TB Drug Development, a public-private partnership. The clinical trials of moxifloxacin, involving thousands of patients in eight countries including Brazil and Zambia, will be paid for by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the new European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership and the Food and Drug Administration.
 ''As someone who's been working on TB for 12 years, this is one of the most exciting advances I've seen,'' said Dr. Kenneth G. Castro, director of TB elimination at the C.D.C.
 Even Doctors Without Borders, the Nobel Prize-winning medical charity that is often harshly critical of the pharmaceutical industry, praised Bayer.
 ''Moxi is a very promising drug for TB, so it's very good news,'' said Dr. Tido von Schoen-Angerer, research chief of the charity's global campaign for cheaper drugs. He questioned only why the decision took nearly three years, saying, ''valuable time has been lost.''
 Dr. Plischke said in a telephone interview that Bayer had ''an underlying commitment to TB'' and pointed out that isoniazid, a 50-year-old drug that is one of the mainstays of TB treatment, is a Bayer drug. The company also works on low-profit-margin drugs for tropical diseases like sleeping sickness and Chagas' disease, he said.
 Many powerful antibiotics made by many companies can kill the Mycobacterium tuberculosis germ that causes tuberculosis.
 But the more lucrative antibiotic sales lie in curing the ills of the relatively wealthy residents of North America, Europe and Japan: pills for infections of the ears, sinuses, lungs and urinary tracts, and intravenous infusions for dangerous hospital infections. 
 Beside the small profits made serving poor countries, there are other risks to registering a drug for TB. For example, the cheaper pills may be shipped back to rich countries for ''gray market'' sale. 
 In nations with broken-down health systems, the drug may be sold openly and overused, leading to drug-resistant germs that make their way to rich countries and render the company's best-seller useless. And when millions use a drug for months, rare side effects can emerge, forcing its withdrawal, much as unexpected reports of heart attacks forced Merck to pull Vioxx, its best-selling painkiller, from the market. 
 ''Companies are much more likely to offer drugs that have no commercial value, or to piggyback a drug from the veterinary sector and give it a human application,'' said Dr. Mary Moran, an expert on drugs for neglected diseases at the London School of Economics. ''Big companies say 'TB muddies the water.' If it works, governments may try to restrict it for TB use. And if you get a side effect, you've just trashed your best commercial antibiotic.''
 Dr. Plischke said he believed that new side effects were unlikely because moxifloxacin had already been taken by 40 million people. Overuse leading to resistance and gray-market sales were unlikely, he said, because the drug would be mixed into a four-drug pill. 
 Four old antibiotics with expired patents -- isoniazid, ethambutol, rifampicin and pyrazinamide -- are the mainstays of first-line tuberculosis treatment. A typical patient takes cocktails of them for six months.
 In tests in mice with tuberculosis, the substitution of moxifloxacin for one of them cuts treatment time to four months, Dr. Castro said.
 Also, he said, moxifloxacin's close chemical relatives ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin have been used for a decade to treat multidrug-resistant strains of TB. Ideally, tuberculosis specialists want to get treatment down to a few weeks, because many patients stop taking their pills when they stop coughing up blood and start feeling better. Ending treatment early encourages drug-resistant strains.
 To prevent that, patients are put on ''directly observed therapy,'' or D.O.T., meaning a nurse or someone else who will not let the patient slip up must watch them take their pills every other day.
 Six months of that, Dr. El-Sadr said, is very taxing for patients in New York who have to get to jobs, as well as for those who are homeless or have drug problems. It is equally hard, she said, for her African patients many miles from clinics.
 In the last few years, several pharmaceutical companies have begun drug-donation programs, though they often limit them to drugs without lucrative Western markets or limit which diseases the drugs may be used against. 
 Pfizer, for example, donates millions of doses of its best-selling antibiotic Zithromax to programs fighting trachoma, an eyelid infection common in rural Africa that slowly causes blindness. Merck and GlaxoSmithKline donate their veterinary deworming pills to poor countries to treat human worm diseases.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In South Africa, a traditional medicine healer holds prescription pills used to fight tuberculosis. The healers are being used as distributors of such medicines. (Photo by Gary Hampton/WHO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUBERCULOSIS (93%); ANTIBIOTICS (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); AIDS & HIV (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (73%); VIRUSES (71%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%) 

COMPANY: BAYER AG (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Bayer Corp; Global Alliance for Tb Drug Development 

TICKER: BAYN (FRA) (95%); BAY (MCE) (95%); BAY (BIT) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%)

PERSON: Donald G Jr Mcneil; Wolfgang (Dr) Plischke

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); ZAMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



391 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: REBUILDING; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Louisiana Governor, Under Fire, Appoints an Advisory Panel 

BYLINE: By LILY KOPPEL

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco created an advisory commission Monday to lead the state's recovery after two devastating hurricanes, responding to critics who said the pace of rebuilding was moving too slowly.
 The 23-member advisory board, to be known as the Louisiana Recovery Authority, will be led by Norman C. Francis, the president of Xavier University, who will serve as chairman, and Walter Isaacson, former chief executive of CNN and now president of the Aspen Institute, who will be vice chairman. Xavier, in New Orleans, is the nation's only historically black Catholic university. Mr. Isaacson is a New Orleans native. 
In a state known for its bitter political rivalries and history of corruption, the board is intended to set priorities for restoring housing, jobs, transportation, health care and education to New Orleans and other Gulf Coast areas struggling to recover.
 Ms. Blanco said the authority would focus on restoring damaged schools, hospitals, levees, roads and bridges, and on rebuilding the state's faltering economy 
 ''It will be a unified voice with the single focus on rebuilding,'' she said in a statement. ''It will show the nation that we can work across all of the old boundaries that once kept us apart.''
 In an interview, Mr. Isaacson said the task would be formidable.
 ''The reputation is that there is a lot of corruption,'' he said. ''We're going to be squeaky clean, with open bidding and big auditing firms.'' 
 The governor said 1.5 million Louisianians had been displaced by the storms, with 81,000 businesses disrupted and at least 200,000 homes in need of replacement. She said the board should set priorities within 30 days on how to spend federal appropriations to address those problems and more, and should develop a plan to communicate with evacuees scattered around the nation and eventually bring them home.
 Within 100 days, she said, there should be a plan to reconstruct levees, restore critical government functions and complete an environmental evaluation of the damage. 
 Three weeks ago, C. Ray Nagin, mayor of New Orleans, announced the creation of a 17-member business-oriented commission with a similar task for his city. Each commission will share one member with the other.
 The executive director of the governor's panel will be her chief of staff, Andy Kopplin. Other members include the Democratic strategist Donna Brazile and the Republican strategist Mary Matalin; Sibal Holt, former president of the Louisiana A.F.L.-C.I.O.; Laura A. Leach, an owner of the Sweet Lake Land and Oil Company, in Lake Charles, La.; Walter J. Leger Jr., a New Orleans lawyer and business leader; and Susan L. Taylor, editorial director of Essence magazine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (69%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Appointments and Executive Changes; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Restoration and Rehabilitation

ORGANIZATION: XAVIER UNIVERSITY (83%); ASPEN INSTITUTE (57%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (90%) Kathleen Babineaux (Gov) Blanco; Norman C Francis; Walter Isaacson; Donna Brazile; Mary Matalin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (78%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Louisiana; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



392 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Congress Returns, to a Major Spending Fight

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Congress returned to a major confrontation over spending on Monday as Republicans prepared to move forward with cuts in popular programs over objections from Democrats and some fellow Republicans.
 ''It is not going to be an easy job over the next several days and weeks,'' Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, acknowledged as the Senate reconvened after a week away. But, Mr. Frist added, ''We need to stick to a rigorous program of fiscal discipline.'' 
 Democrats immediately criticized that approach, with the minority leader, Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, accusing Republicans of forging ahead with ''unconscionable'' tax and spending cuts while the nation still reels from the hurricanes on the Gulf Coast.
 ''Instead of helping Americans, Republicans have decided to use the months ahead to make problems worse,'' said Mr. Reid, who added that the plan would aim at programs for health care, education, housing and food and nutrition.
 The package to cut spending is one of the difficult issues facing Congress. Lawmakers are also far behind schedule in completing the required routine spending measures for the year. And the Senate is preparing its second Supreme Court confirmation review.
 The atmosphere also has been altered by criminal charges in Texas against Representative Tom DeLay, who stepped aside as majority leader, as well as an inquiry by the Securities and Exchange Commission into stock sales by Mr. Frist.
 Citing the cost of hurricane relief, House Republicans expect to vote as early as Thursday on a broad plan to reduce spending more than $50billion over five years. Also this week, five Senate committees are scheduled to outline their savings plans for agencies under their jurisdiction, and one panel is expected to approve a proposal to generate revenue through drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska.
 The outlook for the spending cuts, which are to be followed by a proposal for up to $70billion in tax cuts, is uncertain. While the House leaders, under pressure from the conservative wing, endorsed raising the target for $35billion in cuts approved in the spring to $50billion after the hurricanes, Senate Republicans have not yet done so, though they are looking for savings above the $35billion.
 ''Let us get ours done first, and then we will worry about working it out with the House,'' said Senator Judd Gregg, the New Hampshire Republican who is chairman of the Budget Committee.
 Republicans are fighting internally over where the savings should come from. Some insist that the Pentagon and Homeland Security Department should be spared. Others are reluctant to cut energy and other aid programs, given the potential for high heating bills in the winter.
 With Democrats likely to be united against the cuts, Republicans cannot afford many defections if they hope to push a final package through Congress. 
 The tension between moderate and conservative Republicans has been on display in the Finance Committee, where Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who heads the panel, is trying to negotiate an approach to satisfy the two factions by balancing $10billion in cuts between Medicare and Medicaid.
 Still, some Republicans said they believed that a final deal could be reached, given the rare opportunity to enact cuts through legislation that is specifically protected from a Senate filibuster. 
 ''It is too tempting a vehicle to pass up,'' said Senator John E. Sununu, another New Hampshire Republican who has been pressing for lower federal spending. 
 At the White House, the spokesman, Scott McClellan, encouraged Congress to act on extending tax cuts enacted for President Bush and paring spending.
 ''It's important to keep the tax cuts in place, because that keeps our economy growing,'' Mr. McClellan said.
 ''In terms of spending issues,'' he added later, ''I think Americans recognize there's a lot of unnecessary spending that can be cut from the budget. And we appreciate the leadership's willingness to work with us to get that done.''
 As Republicans try to maneuver the spending and tax cuts through Congress under a complex process that has not been used in eight years, they will face organized opposition. A group backed by labor, Americans United to Protect Social Security, has turned its attention to the budget plan and is mounting a public relations campaign against it while aiming at about 12 Republican lawmakers to try to press them to oppose the cuts.
 Republican leaders continued to work out the details of the spending proposals on Monday, and aides said they could not provide new details. Besides the $50billion in future reductions on programs like Medicaid and farm subsidies, House leaders are also considering an across-the-board cut in federal spending. The size of that cut has not been decided, mainly because lawmakers are resisting automatic decreases in programs like veterans' health care.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Judd Gregg, left, and John E. Sununu, right, with Representative Charles Bass, inspecting flooding last week in Alstead, N.H. Mr. Gregg and Mr. Sununu are leading advocates of federal spending cuts. (Photo by Jim Cole/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HURRICANES (88%); WEATHER (88%); TAX LAW (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX RELIEF (74%); TROPICAL STORMS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); STOCK OFFERINGS (64%); NUTRITION (53%); WILDLIFE (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (79%); JOHN SUNUNU (74%); HARRY REID (74%); CHARLES BASS (59%) Carl Hulse

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



393 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: In Sign of Conservative Split, A Commentator Is Dismissed

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
In the latest sign of the deepening split among conservatives over how far to go in challenging President Bush, Bruce Bartlett, a Republican commentator who has been increasingly critical of the White House, was dismissed on Monday as a senior fellow at the National Center for Policy Analysis, a conservative research group based in Dallas. 
 In a statement, the organization said the decision was made after Mr. Bartlett supplied its president, John C. Goodman, with the manuscript of his forthcoming book, ''The Impostor: How George W. Bush Bankrupted America and Betrayed the Reagan Legacy.''
Mr. Bartlett, who was a domestic policy aide at the White House in the Reagan administration and a deputy assistant Treasury secretary under the first President Bush, confirmed that he had been dismissed after 10 years with the center but declined to make any further comment. 
 The statement from the organization said Mr. Bartlett had negotiated a deal last year to reduce his workload to give him time to write a book about economic policy and taxation for which he had received a six-figure advance. The statement said that the manuscript he showed Mr. Goodman was ''an evaluation of the motivations and competencies of politicians rather than an analysis of public policy.'' The statement said the organization did not want to be associated with that kind of work.
 In response to a question about whether the administration had pressed the organization about Mr. Bartlett, Mr. Goodman relayed a reply through a spokesman saying he had never had any conversation about Mr. Bartlett with anyone in the White House.
 But the dismissal of Mr. Bartlett comes as the White House is facing a revolt by many conservatives and the prospect of an enduring deep divide within what had been Mr. Bush's most reliable base of grass-roots, financial and intellectual support. Up until the last few months, Mr. Bush had been reasonably successful in two political challenges: presenting himself as a conservative while also laying a claim to the political center, and holding together a conservative movement that has always been prone to internal divisions.
 Mr. Bartlett was an early proponent of supply-side economics, and in the late 1970's was active in promoting the tax-cutting philosophy that later became the basis for President Ronald Reagan's economic agenda. In recent years he has written a syndicated newspaper column as well as articles for academic journals.
 Like many economic conservatives, he has grown increasingly disenchanted with the current administration's fiscal policy, arguing that Mr. Bush has tolerated if not encouraged a federal spending spree, dashing conservative hopes for progress toward a smaller, leaner government.
 He has also joined social conservatives in attacking Mr. Bush's nomination of Harriet E. Miers to the Supreme Court. The Miers nomination, more than any other move by the administration in the last five years, has drawn criticism of Mr. Bush by conservative scholars and commentators, though the White House so far appears to have succeeded in limiting the breach with elected Republicans in Congress.
 In his next column, to be published on Wednesday, Mr. Bartlett wrote that it is dawning on many conservatives ''that George W. Bush is not one of them and never has been,'' citing the administration's positions on education, campaign finance, immigration, government spending and regulation. The choice ''of a patently unqualified crony for a critical position on the Supreme Court was the final straw,'' he wrote.
 In ''Impostor,'' which is scheduled to be published in April by Doubleday and has already attracted attention on conservative Web sites, Mr. Bartlett expands on many of the themes he has struck in his columns and other writings. He is critical of the administration for policy decisions like backing away at times from its commitment to open trade and for failing to sell conservative ideas like introducing investment accounts to Social Security.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (91%); CONSERVATISM (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WRITERS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); BUDGETS (74%); TAX RELIEF (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LITERATURE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (60%) United States Politics and Government; Conservatism (US Politics); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Presidents and Presidency (US); Books and Literature; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CENTER FOR POLICY ANALYSIS (84%) National Center for Policy Analysis

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%) Bruce Bartlett; George W (Pres) Bush; Richard W Stevenson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005



394 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Math: Three Couples Means Marital Misery Times Three

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
Laughing in the middle of a yawn produces a peculiar sensation, rather like swallowing wind. I chanced to discover this little-known fact of physiology at the revival of Alan Ayckbourn's ''Absurd Person Singular,'' which opened last night at the Biltmore Theater.
 As directed by John Tillinger in a Manhattan Theater Club production, Mr. Ayckbourn's classic farce of marital misery and Christmas cheerlessness, a hit on Broadway in the mid-1970's, doesn't exactly make the heart beat faster. The characters often feel more like props than people. The performers assume the right postures, say their lines on cue, even approximate the correct, class-conscious English accents. By and large, though, you have the sense of a talented, appealing ensemble waiting for some whimsical lightning bolt to shock it into a state of inspiration. 
 Such is Mr. Ayckbourn's efficiency in mixing incongruous ingredients to ridiculous perfection that every so often you are startled out of ennui and into abrupt barks of laughter. The combination of elements may be as simple as a man, a woman and a can of bug spray or as elaborate as a parlor game that involves an orange, an apple, a tea cloth, a spoon and the entire cast of six. In either case, such moments are little masterpieces of nearly foolproof comic contrivance, with absurdity seeming to rise both improbably and inevitably out of the everyday.
 Mr. Ayckbourn's mastery in setting up such scenes has made ''Absurd Person Singular'' -- a tale of three couples that is to yuletide angst what Michael Frayn's ''Noises Off'' is to backstage jitters -- a favorite of community and repertory troupes. Mr. Tillinger's production is a step or two up from dinner theater. For starters, it has handsome, sociologically telling sets by John Lee Beatty and a thoroughly professional cast that includes Deborah Rush (who is, for the record, wonderful), Paxton Whitehead and Mireille Enos, who recently scored a hit as the nauseated Honey in Anthony Page's revival of ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?''
 What is generally missing here, though, is a sustained awareness of the ghost in the play's comic machinery, for all of Mr. Ayckbourn's ingeniously constructed fun houses are haunted by failure and loneliness. This hyper-prolific dramatist (more than 60 plays and counting) has never been as popular in the United States as in Britain (though the Manhattan Theater Club, which has produced five other Ayckbourn comedies, has done its best to keep his work before New Yorkers).
 This culture gap would seem to have less to do with American audiences' willingness to accept the sadness in Ayckbourn than with American casts and directors' inability to deliver it. Finding the obvious laughs in Mr. Ayckbourn's work is child's play; uncovering the richer humor requires taking his characters seriously.
 Simply sticking to the lively surface is an understandable temptation. Like much of Mr. Ayckbourn's work (including his recent ''House'' and ''Garden,'' which gave new meaning to the idea of a double bill), ''Absurd Person Singular'' is built with mathematical precision from a very clever blueprint. The play has three acts, each set during a different party in a different kitchen on three consecutive Christmas Eves, bringing together the same three couples.
 When the play begins, these six people are perched on different rungs of the social ladder. Starting from the bottom, they are Sidney (Alan Ruck), an ambitious real estate developer, and Jane (Clea Lewis), a neat freak of staggering proportions; Geoffrey (Sam Robards), a womanizing architect, and the profoundly unhappy Eva (Ms. Enos); and Ronald (Mr. Whitehead), a prosperous banker, and Marion (Ms. Rush), his acerbic, alcoholic wife. But in the economic uncertainty of the 1970's, the British class system is becoming unglued.
 By evening's end, the pecking order will have been stood on its head. And Mr. Ayckbourn will have demonstrated what he has described as his fundamental principles of comedy: ''My work is about men's inhumanity to women and women's inhumanity to men. It's also about the whole physical world's inhumanity to us all.''
 In ''Absurd Person Singular,'' this means that idees fixes -- whether Jane's lust to keep her home spotless or Eva's determination to kill herself -- are destined to be thwarted. And while the characters may chatter like magpies, nobody really hears anybody else. Communication is an impossible dream.
 You can grasp these themes intellectually from Mr. Tillinger's staging, but you are less likely to feel their emotional impact. The first act, set in the antiseptically maintained home of Sidney and Jane, is played as glaringly bright social satire. But as the show moves forward in time, turning progressively somber, the performers don't keep pace with the tone.
 Ms. Enos, who made her mark with the role that brought Sandy Dennis an Oscar in ''Virginia Woolf,'' is again taking on a part once played by Dennis (who was Eva in the first Broadway production of ''Absurd Person Singular''). To her credit, Ms. Enos is not channeling Dennis here, as she did in ''Virginia Woolf.'' But she doesn't seem to have a firm hold on Eva, whose second-act suicide attempts in the midst of cocktail small talk should be a high point of macabre hilarity. Though she retains a lockjawed upper-middle-class drawl, her Eva registers as a different person in each act.
 Most of the cast suffers from similar inconsistency. Ms. Lewis does remain the same chipper cartoon throughout. But only Mr. Whitehead and Ms. Rush (both of the original ''Noises Off'' on Broadway) create a feasible portrait of a relationship. And let it be said that Ms. Rush traces Marion's descent into a gin bottle in splendid comic style while sidestepping the usual cliches of playing drunk.
 Watching Ms. Rush is like spending a night on the town with a worldly woman whose sardonic charms at first seem only enhanced by alcohol. As she grows sloppier and more sentimental, she's still funny, but she is also seriously sad. That's the sensation that Mr. Ayckbourn's plays should produce, a feeling between an ache and a guffaw. Yawns shouldn't enter into it.

Absurd Person Singular

By Alan Ayckbourn; directed by John Tillinger; sets by John Lee Beatty; costumes by Jane Greenwood; lighting by Brian MacDevitt; sound by Bruce Ellman; production stage manager, Diane DiVita; director of artistic operations, Mandy Greenfield; production manager, Ryan McMahon; director of development, Jill Turner Lloyd; director of marketing, Debra A. Waxman; general manager, Florie Seery; director of artistic development, Paige Evans; director of artistic production, Michael Bush; stage manager, Neil Krasnow. Presented by the Manhattan Theater Club, artistic director, Lynne Meadow; executive producer, Barry Grove. At the Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street; (212)239-6200. Through Dec. 18. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes.

WITH: Clea Lewis (Jane), Alan Ruck (Sidney), Paxton Whitehead (Ronald), Deborah Rush (Marion), Mireille Enos (Eva) and Sam Robards (Geoffrey).


GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Clea Lewis, Alan Ruck, Paxton Whitehead and Deborah Rush in ''Absurd Person Singular.'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); CHRISTMAS (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); SOCIOLOGY (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005



395 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Producers Are Absorbing Higher Fuel Costs, for Now

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Wholesale prices surged at a faster pace than consumer prices last month, the government reported yesterday, indicating that businesses are not passing on the full brunt of the energy price spike to customers. 
 The Producer Price Index, which measures the prices received by producers of goods and services, jumped 1.9 percent in September, as energy costs rose 7.1 percent, the Labor Department reported. It was the biggest monthly increase since January 1990, when prices also increased 1.9 percent. Food prices increased 1.4 percent in September after falling for five consecutive months. 
Excluding the volatile energy and food categories, the core rate of the Producer Price Index rose 0.3 percent.
 Economists were expecting a smaller jump in producer prices -- 1.2 percent over all and 0.2 percent excluding food and energy. Compared with September 2004, prices rose 6.9 percent over all and 2.6 percent excluding food and energy.
 Data released last week showed that consumer prices last month rose 1.2 percent over all and 0.1 percent excluding food and energy. Unlike producer prices, consumer prices include taxes, subsidies and distribution costs.
 Prices rose even faster for raw materials, which were up 10.2 percent, and goods that are in intermediate stages of production, up 2.5 percent, than they did for finished goods.
 ''That suggests that we are getting some inflationary pressures building in the pipeline,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight, a research firm. ''Those are the numbers that are likely to show up'' in consumer prices.
 Thus far, businesses have not passed along the entire increase in their costs to consumers. Economists have struggled to explain fully why that may be happening and how much longer it can continue.
 Technology and other cost-saving measures have allowed businesses to become more efficient in the last decade, but those productivity gains have slowed recently. Some companies might not be able to charge more because of competition, even though the price of gasoline was up 12.7 percent and commercial natural gas was up 10.4 percent. 
 ''What is giving us protection is all the global competition that we have,'' said Anthony Chan, an economist at J.P. Morgan Asset Management. ''That is preventing companies from passing on most of the costs. Even though productivity has been slowing down, it's still fairly significant.''
 There does appear to be some spillover in areas like transportation and agriculture. The price of fresh fruits and melons rose 6.4 percent, egg prices soared 49 percent, and pork sold for 4.7 percent more than in August.
 ''It could be the weather,'' Mr. Chan said. ''Distribution costs increase with the cost of energy. Fertilizer goes up when energy goes up. There are various reasons for the surge.''
 But Mr. Chan and other economists said the increases in wholesale prices, though troubling, should ease in the coming months as oil and natural gas production and refining operations that were shut down by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita are restored.
 ''These things look and feel more like spikes rather than sustainable movements,'' he said.
 Crude oil and other energy futures fell yesterday because forecasts indicated that Hurricane Wilma will miss oil and natural gas rigs in the Gulf of Mexico as it turns toward Florida later in the week. Still, consumers and businesses will feel another big pinch from energy costs this winter in the form of higher heating costs. The government estimates that heating costs will rise 30 percent to 48 percent this winter, with natural gas users hit the hardest.
 For the Federal Reserve, the jump in producer prices will serve as another indication that inflation fears need to be addressed through interest rates, economists said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Consumers have so far been spared the effects of higher wholesale prices, but there are signs of inflation in some food categories. Egg prices soared 49 percent in September, the Labor Department said. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCER PRICES (94%); PRICE INCREASES (94%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); FERTILIZERS (60%) United States Economy; Producer Price Index; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Food

COMPANY: MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

PERSON: NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (50%) Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005



396 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Rooms at the Inn

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
Fueled by increasing tourism and business travel, the recovery in the lodging industry that began last year remains solid. Rooms are commanding ever-higher rates and occupancy is improving steadily, industry data shows. 
 But the industry is also benefiting from the fact that the number of hotel rooms is not keeping pace with demand. Relatively few new hotels are being developed, and hotels in some cities and resort areas are being partly or totally converted to other uses. Many metropolitan areas have actually been losing hotel rooms.
 The national supply of hotel rooms has grown an average of 2.2 percent a year for the last 18 years, said Robert I. Bowers Jr., a senior vice president at Smith Travel Research of Henderson, Tenn. But so far this year, the inventory has increased by only half a percent. ''We haven't seen room supply growth this low since the early part of the 90's,'' he said. 
 A dozen of the top 25 markets have lost hotel rooms in the last year, according to Smith Travel data for August. Some rooms have been taken off the market and converted into residential condominiums. In other cases, older hotels have been closed because they can no longer compete with newer rivals, or for renovation and upgrading or conversion into condo hotels, in which individual units are sold separately as second homes or investments.
 In the Tampa area, some of the reduction can be attributed to the fallout from last year's hurricanes, Mr. Bowers said, adding that about 37,000 hotel rooms on the Gulf Coast have closed -- at least temporarily -- in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.
 The trend of conversion to condominiums has been most pronounced in New York, where 15 hotels have pulled all or some of their rooms off the market. In all, 3,579 rooms have been taken out of service since 1999, according to figures supplied by PricewaterhouseCoopers.
 A New York City hotel room worth $1,500 a square foot could sell for as much as $2,500 a square foot as a residential unit, said Bjorn Hanson, who directs the firm's hospitality practice.
 In the last two years, said John A. Fox, a senior vice president at PKF Consulting in New York, which specializes in the hotel industry, half of the rooms in hotels facing Central Park have gone off the market. The Mayflower, on Central Park West, was torn down and is to be replaced by condos.
 Fourteen other hotels are being entirely or partly converted, including the Plaza, the Stanhope and, most recently, the Essex House, which will lose 15 percent of its hotel rooms. The newer hotels that have filled some of the gap have tended to be more modestly priced and situated either in downtown Manhattan, the Far West Side or in other boroughs.
 Hotel owners in other cities where there is a strong market for luxury condos have begun to follow New York's lead. Plans were announced last summer to transform the Park Tower of the 1,300-room Wardman Park Marriott Hotel in Northwest Washington into residential units. In Los Angeles, the Related Companies, the owners of the 32-story St. Regis tower in Century City, have said they will demolish the tower and replace it with condos.
 But in San Francisco, an attempt by the owners of the storied Fairmont Hotel on Nob Hill to remove 226 rooms from the market was recently thwarted after the hotel workers' union helped persuade the city to declare an 18-month moratorium on hotel conversions.
 ''A lot of other hotels were looking to do conversions,'' said Ian Lewis, a research analyst in San Francisco for Unite Here, which represents hotel, restaurant and apparel workers. ''The concern was that an en masse stampede would gut our city's ability to get large conventions and harm the largest industry, which is tourism.'' 
 Thomas E. Callahan, a co-chief executive of PKF Consulting who is based in San Francisco, said that with luxury hotel rooms in his city valued at roughly $300,000 a room and two-bedroom condos selling for $1.5 million or more, a developer would stand to profit handsomely by combining three rooms to create a condo unit even after spending $200,000 on renovations.
 But he said not every hotel lent itself to conversion because the section transformed into condominiums needed to have separate elevators and higher ceilings.
 After plummeting in the wake of the economic downturn and the terrorist attacks of 2001, hotel values have been rising steadily to record levels, with prices so high that the initial rate of return, known as the capitalization rate, can be as low as 5 percent, said Thomas C. McConnell, a senior managing director at Cushman & Wakefield's hotel transaction group.
 In two August transactions, the Westin Copley Place in Boston sold for $403 million, or $486,000 a room, and the Westin Century Plaza Hotel and Spa in Los Angeles changed hands for $293 million, or $402,000 a room. 
 With hotel prices increasing, the condo conversion craze is likely to be temporary, Mr. Callahan said.
 In metropolitan areas like Miami and Honolulu on the island of Oahu, it is not conversion to residential condos that is affecting the supply but rather the proliferation of condo hotels, which remove rooms from the market at least some of the time. Rules vary as to whether owners are required to allow the units to be rented as hotel rooms when they are not using them. 
 Data on this trend is just beginning to emerge. Lodging Econometrics, a research and brokerage company in Portsmouth, N.H., has counted 108 hotels -- both conversions and new projects -- in which some or all of the rooms are sold as condo units. One Los Angeles lawyer, James R. Butler Jr., said he had been involved in 36 condo hotel projects around the country. 
 On Oahu, the number of available rooms was down 4.6 percent through the first eight months of this year, compared with the period last year, the biggest decline in any major market. At the same time, the occupancy rate on Oahu in August was a record 91.2 percent, according to Smith Travel. 
 The island's decreasing supply stems from the growing popularity of condo hotels, and, to a lesser extent, time-share units, said Joseph Toy, the president of Hospitality Advisors, a consulting firm in Honolulu.
 According to Mr. Toy, 2,900 hotel rooms were converted to condo units from 2000 to 2004, and 2,100 are expected by 2010, including the entire 1,150-room Ala Moana Hotel in Honolulu. In addition, Outrigger Hotels and Resorts is redeveloping a major portion of Waikiki and has taken 1,000 rooms off the market. Half will be converted to time-share units, Mr. Toy said. 
 Owners of condo hotel units in Hawaii are not required to put them into the hotel's inventory, Mr. Toy said. About 10 percent of the condo hotel rooms on Oahu are withdrawn from the hotel market, a percentage that rises to 25 percent on other islands, he said. 
 Most of the properties that have or will undergo conversion were in need of renovation that would not have occurred without the dollars provided by the sales of the individual units, Mr. Toy said.
 ''The conversions are a double-edged sword,'' he said. ''On the one hand, there are less rooms when there is very high demand. On the other hand, most of these hotels have been budget and economy hotels that would not have been renovated.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Concern about vanishing rooms derailed a conversion plan at the Fairmont Hotel in San Francisco. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)Chart: ''Less Lodging''Many of the country's top metropolitan hotel markets have lost capacity this year as rooms are converted into residential units and hotels are closed for renovation or conversion into condo hotels.Room availabilityMarket and Aug. '04-Aug. '05 year-to-date changeAnaheim/Santa Ana, Claif.: -0.5%Dallas: -0.2Denver: -0.2Detroit: -0.8Los Angeles/Long Beach: -0.5Miami/Hialeah: -1.4New York: -0.4Oahu Island: -4.6Orlando: -1.8Philadelphia: -0.4Phoenix: -0.8San Francisco/San Mateo: -1.5Seattle: -0.3Tampa/St. Petersburg: -1.3Graphs track large hotels sold* and average sale price per room from 1999 through first six months of 2005.*Hotels with 200 or more rooms.(Sources by Lodging Econometrics
 Smith Travel Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LODGING (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); TOURISM (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CITIES (71%); HURRICANES (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); WEATHER (64%) Hotels and Motels; Industry Profiles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing; Condominiums; Hotels and Motels

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Smith Travel Research

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: Terry Pristin; Robert I Jr Bowers

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005



397 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall as Report on Prices Fans Fears of Inflation 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks declined yesterday after a report showed the biggest jump in producer prices in 15 years, rekindling inflation concerns.
 ''The inflation numbers on the margin are coming out worse than people expected and we would expect that trend to continue,'' said John Forelli, who helps manage $8 billion at Independence Investment in Boston.
''That's going to put some pressure'' on the stock market, he said.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 11.96 points, or 1 percent, to 1,178.14. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 62.84 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,285.26. The Nasdaq composite index lost 14.30 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,056. 
 Producer prices climbed 1.9 percent, a Labor Department report showed, as surging energy prices increased raw-material costs. Economists expected a gain of 1.2 percent for prices paid to factories, farmers and other producers. The core measure, which excludes food and fuel, increased 0.3 percent.
 ''The stock market has been anticipating a slowdown because of pressures from interest rates and energy prices,'' Ron Baron, who manages $12 billion at Baron Capital, said in New York.
 The decline in benchmark gauges was led by Exxon Mobil, which lost $2.56, to $56.30. Energy shares, this month's worst performers, dropped as $1.4 billion of Exxon's stock was sold at a discount in a single trade. The block of Exxon shares changed hands at $57 each. The stock was changing hands at about $57.90 before the block trade.
 ''If a large holder is giving up on Exxon, a large holder gives up on a blue-chip stock,'' said James Monaghan, a trader for AIG SunAmerica Asset Management in Jersey City. 
 Shares of companies like I.B.M. and 3M advanced on better-than-expected results.
 I.B.M. increased 89 cents, to $83.48. Before tax expenses, the company said it had profit of $1.26 a share, beating the $1.13 average estimate from analysts.
 3M was up $2.24, or 3.1 percent, at $74.71. The company, which makes products ranging from software to Scotch tape, said third-quarter earnings were $1.10 a share. That was more than the $1.08 average estimate by analysts.
 Intel, the computer chip maker, rose 26 cents, to $23.72, but shares fell as low as $22.90 in after-hours trading. After the market closed, the company reported earnings that were little changed.
 Merrill Lynch added 12 cents, to $61.21. The securities firm reported third-quarter net income of $1.40 a share, more than the $1.18 analysts estimated.
 Novellus Systems, which makes machines used in semiconductor manufacturing, lost $3.06, to $21.83. The company forecast a fourth-quarter profit, excluding some costs, of 15 cents to 17 cents a share. Analysts had expected 24 cents.
 Guidant, the maker of implantable defibrillators, slid $8.28, to $64.10. Johnson & Johnson said it wanted to renegotiate the $25.4 billion price it had agreed to pay in December for Guidant. 
 Johnson & Johnson slipped 3 cents, to $62.97, even after saying its net income increased to 87 cents a share, a penny more than the average of analyst estimates.
 General Motors and Ford Motor declined after Merrill cut both to sell from neutral. Shares of G.M. fell 97 cents, to $29.12, while Ford dropped 19 cents, to $8.47.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note rose 6/32, to a price of 98 8/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.47 percent, from 4.49 percent on Monday.
 Here are the auction results for four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.726
High Rate: 3.520
Coupon Yield: 3.579
Low Rate: 3.480
Median Rate: 3.500
Total applied for: $38,721,360
Accepted: $16,766,770
Noncompetitive: $126,230

The four-week bills mature Nov. 17, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve'' plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); MICROPROCESSORS (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%); COMPUTER CHIPS (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (96%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (59%); SUNAMERICA ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (53%); INTEL CORP (53%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (96%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: RON BARON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005



398 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: A Profit at Wells Fargo

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Wells Fargo & Company reported record third-quarter profit yesterday, as loan growth helped offset downward pressure on lending margins. 
 ''In some markets we're seeing reasonably strong deposit growth and pretty much across the board, commercial and industrial, middle-market business loans are fairly robust,'' said Mark Batty, an analyst at PNC Advisers. ''It's a sign the economy remains fairly strong.''
 The San Francisco-based Wells Fargo said net income rose 13 percent, to $1.98 billion, or $1.16 a share, compared with $1.75 billion, or $1.02, in the period a year earlier. Revenue rose 16 percent, to $8.5 billion.
 Analysts had forecast profit of $1.15 a share on revenue of $8.07 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (50%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Wells Fargo & Co

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005



399 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Towers Grow in Downtown Brooklyn

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

 BODY:
The resurgence of Brooklyn neighborhoods like Park Slope and Williamsburg is well documented. But what is not as widely known is how well the downtown business district is doing, despite a still somewhat dog-eared appearance. What is more, the area is on the verge of a major transformation.
 In the borough's six million square feet of Class A office space -- modern property in highly desirable locations -- the vacancy rate was only 6.8 percent in the third quarter of 2005; brokers say that is one of the lowest rates in the country. The Gallery at Fulton Street, more commonly known as the Fulton Mall, is regarded as a highly successful urban shopping center, commanding annual rents upward of $200 a square foot and drawing 100,000 shoppers a day. There is even a growing residential population in downtown Brooklyn. 
 And all this has occurred before a dizzying array of planned development and beautification projects have begun, although several will soon be formally announced. 
 The core commercial district is roughly bounded by Tillary Street to the north, Flatbush Avenue to the east, Atlantic Avenue to the south and Court Street/Cadman Plaza to the west. 
 During a recent walking tour, Michael Burke -- director of the Downtown Brooklyn Council, a nonprofit economic development corporation charged with promoting as well as coordinating downtown Brooklyn's redevelopment plans -- pointed out sites where about 2,000 new units of housing, 4.5 million square feet of office space and 900,000 square feet of retailing space are under construction or in various stages of planning. 
 Much of this has been spurred by a rezoning of the area that took effect on July 1, 2004, which allows for residential development and provides for denser commercial and mixed-use projects.
 The center of the new commercial core is Willoughby Square, which will be bordered by three large mixed-use towers; two are already in the planning process and a third is still speculative. Willoughby Square itself will be a 1.5-acre park constructed on land that now has old low-rise buildings and parking lots and is being condemned by the city. A large parking garage will be built underneath the park.
 As a result of a deal recently worked out with the city, Thor Equities, a Manhattan-based development company, expects to begin construction within a year on the first new mixed-use tower on Willoughby Square. This 60-story 1.2-million-square-foot tower will sit opposite the proposed park on a 40,000-square-foot lot that now holds a city-owned above-ground parking garage.
 Disclosing details of their plans for the first time in an interview last week, the developers of the Thor Tower said they expected the building to have 100,000 square feet of stores, 100,000 square feet of commercial office space, 400,000 square feet of hotel space (with two hotels, one moderately priced and the other upscale) and 600,000 square feet of condominiums. 
 Thor Equities has not yet secured an anchor tenant for the office space, but has had expressions of interest from several hotel operators. Construction is expected to take 18 months.
 The city is said to be close to designating a developer for the second tower to occupy the Willoughby West site, and an agreement is expected to be announced within a couple of months. The third piece, called Willoughby South, is envisioned for land that is not yet assembled.
 A developer for a fourth tower, to be built west of Willoughby Square on Boerum Place between Livingston and Fulton Streets, is also expected to be announced within a matter of weeks.
 Willoughby Square is a noticeable departure from downtown Brooklyn's first commercial redevelopment project, MetroTech Center, which was started more than 15 years ago when downtown was a much more run-down and dangerous place. MetroTech's buildings were designed to face inward, creating a protected campus. Most of the commercial space there is occupied by people who work in the back-office operations of financial firms. 
 By contrast, Willoughby Square is envisioned as filling a role like that of Bryant Park in Midtown Manhattan, which is open and heavily used by the public even though there are towers around it. This open plan reflects the fact that downtown Brooklyn is now safer and more attractive, and should be attractive to newer, hipper businesses. 
 ''The next wave of commercial activity is going to be a different type of tenant from the usual back office,'' said Glenn Markman, an executive director of Cushman & Wakefield, who has been working in and around downtown Brooklyn for the better part of 15 years. ''It's going to be publishing companies, media firms and entertainment companies that recognize that their labor pool lives in Brooklyn now.''
 And that labor pool is not only going to be in adjacent neighborhoods like Cobble Hill and Dumbo (for Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass), but downtown as well. Residential projects under way are clustered on the south end of the commercial district along Schermerhorn Street, Boerum Place and Livingston Street. 
 The city is also set to announce that EDAW, an international landscape design firm, will direct an $8 million streetscaping improvement plan for the Fulton Mall. In addition, $13 million has been designated for the reconstruction and streetscaping of Flatbush and Myrtle Avenues. 
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has announced a $162 million renovation of the Jay Street and Lawrence Street subway stations, with an underground tunnel connecting them. 
 And on the edge of the core commercial district is the area where Forest City Ratner has proposed to build a huge mixed-use development that includes a new arena for the New Jersey Nets basketball team.
 ''What's going on in downtown Brooklyn is mind-boggling,'' said Joseph J. Sitt, president and chief executive of Thor Equities. The owner of the Fulton Mall, which opened in 1980, Thor Equities has been making major improvements there, as well as developing two other sites in downtown Brooklyn for a total of roughly two million square feet of commercial and retail space under its control.
 ''People ask if I'm afraid of overinvesting in downtown Brooklyn,'' Mr. Sitt said, ''but I say the timing is perfect.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of Thor Tower. Brooklyn's commercial core will include residential development. (Photo by Perkins Eastman)Map of Brooklyn highlighting areas surrounding Willoughby Street: Three new towers will cluster around open space off Willoughby Street.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); ZONING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); RETAILERS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: Thor Equities

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Willoughby Square (Brooklyn); New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005



400 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Azerbaijani Leader Confident His Party Will Win

BYLINE: By C.J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: BAKU, Azerbaijan, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
President Ilham Aliyev predicted Tuesday that his governing New Azerbaijan Party would post an overwhelming victory in elections next month and said the conditions for a revolution did not exist here.
 Mr. Aliyev's confident prediction came in the final weeks of campaigning for the 125 seats in Parliament, amid growing Western criticism that the government was not ensuring a free and fair electoral process.
 The election is being watched as a sign of whether Mr. Aliyev -- who succeeded his father as president in 2003 after an election that was strongly criticized for fraud, voter intimidation and state manipulation of the tally -- is willing to liberalize his politics and allow alternative voices in public life. 
 The races, pitting the governing party against independent candidates and several small and generally fragmented opposition parties, have been influenced by the popular uprisings since late 2003 that have forced post-Soviet governments from power in Georgia, Ukraine and Kyrgyzstan. 
 Some opposition members here wear orange ties, shirts and scarves, adopting the color of the Orange Revolution in Ukraine. A few have carried posters bearing the face of President Bush and the slogan ''We want freedom too!''
 But the opposition has not been highly visible or able to draw huge crowds, and Mr. Aliyev dismissed its significance in an interview with Western correspondents on Tuesday. ''The opposition seems to be very disorganized, weak,'' he said. ''Their attempts to create a prerevolutionary situation in Azerbaijan failed.''
 Azerbaijan is a post-Soviet republic in an economic boom. Rich in oil and gas, it broke from its former rulers in Moscow and adopted a strategy of collaborating with Western governments and corporations. In a few years, as new pipelines that have been built with Western assistance open, it is projected to begin exporting as much as a million barrels of oil a day.
 Its economy has begun to take off, and a rush of construction is evident here in the capital. The federal budget has expanded and salaries have risen, according to the United Nations Development Program, which reviews Azerbaijan's economic data.
 While 40 percent of the population is living in poverty, the percentage is falling, and a national survey of 1,200 Azerbaijanis, conducted in June by the International Republican Institute and partly underwritten by the United States government, found that 56 percent of those surveyed said the country was headed in the right direction. Thirty-one percent said it was on the wrong track. 
 Mr. Aliyev said that given those economic conditions and signs of optimism, the opposition was unlikely to draw demonstrators to the streets. ''Any similarities with what happened in Georgia and Ukraine are not proper,'' he said, ''and I do not foresee any problem here with respect to the parliamentary election.'' 
 Opposition leaders call his assessments odd, given that security forces have been used to disperse antigovernment rallies, sometimes with force. And for all of his public self-assuredness, Western organizations that are monitoring the elections have warned that the government risks having another tainted vote, undermining its legitimacy.
 Among those urging swift reform is the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. It recently reported that the government had placed excessive restrictions on freedom of assembly, that media attention had favored government-approved candidates, that voter lists were inaccurate or incomplete and that there had been credible reports of coercion or bribery of voters.
 Opposition leaders say the government's actions belie the president's words. ''How can one call the opposition weak if the authorities are afraid to create equal conditions for the opposition candidates?'' said Ali Kerimli, head of the Popular Front of Azerbaijan, one of three parties that have tried to set aside differences and created a bloc called Azadliq, or Freedom.
 Elman Salayev, a deputy leader of the Azerbaijan Democratic Party, another member of the bloc, said, ''If they think the opposition is weak, then why won't they hold free and fair elections?'' 
 Mr. Salayev said the exiled leader of his party, Rasul Guliyev, who was thwarted Monday in his effort to fly to Azerbaijan and campaign for a parliamentary seat when the government mounted a show of police force near the capital's airport, remained in custody on Tuesday in Ukraine, where his plane landed.
 Mr. Guliyev is wanted on embezzlement and other charges that he says are politically motivated. Mr. Aliyev said Azerbaijan was seeking his extradition, and called him the ''head of an international mafia.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ilham Aliyev, the president of Azerbaijan, in his office in Baku. At right is his press secretary, Azer Gasimov. (Photo by Oleg Nikishin/Pressphotos, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (86%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); POOR POPULATION (69%); BUDGETS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); POVERTY RATES (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) AZERBAIJAN (95%); UKRAINE (93%); GEORGIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005

 
