

1 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Far-Flung Houses For Very Young Home Buyers

BYLINE: By PATRICK O'GILFOIL HEALY

 BODY:
ON paper, they could pass for 40-year-olds. They are homeowners living in the Middle of Nowhere, U.S.A., deep in the suburbs of suburbia. They commute an hour to work. They live next door to farmland. They pay mortgages and contemplate amortization schedules and property taxes. They like yard work and quiet nights, and they don't make it into the city much anymore.
 But these mature homeowners are the youngest of the young in real estate terms, buyers who are 25 years and younger. While their friends live in cramped apartments and downtown lofts, small flocks of young adults across the country are forgoing places like Hell's Kitchen or the Castro district for subdivisions named Castlegate and Churchill Club. They are choosing the far-flung exurbs of America.
They give up nightclubs, art galleries and the frenetic urban thrum that serves as a soundtrack for so many people in their 20's. In return, these buyers get new homes, cheap land and the promise of being pioneers in communities rising from old wheat fields and sod farms. 
 Developers, quick to catch on, are starting to advertise on college campuses and in apartment complexes occupied by young renters.
 ''We were surprised by the number of 20-somethings out there who were buying,'' said Scott Smith, president of Great Western Homes near Phoenix, which is a unit of K. Hovnanian Homes. ''We thought it was purely an affordability issue, but they said they wanted to be on the outer edges.''
 Younger buyers helped fuel the real estate boom that sent prices for houses soaring over the last four years. Wary of the stock market, they sprang at low interest rates and riskier financing methods like interest-only loans. 
 There are no statistics that break down exactly where the youngest buyers are purchasing homes, but census data show their strength. Homeowners younger than 25 still make up the smallest fraction of all owners, but their numbers are growing faster than any other age group, more than doubling since 1994. 
 The National Association of Realtors reported that 12 percent of first-time buyers are under 25. Though the under-25 buyer makes up only 1 percent of all homeowners nationally, several exurban developers said these young buyers represent 7 to 12 percent of their sales. 
 Buyers like Ashley Candelaria, 21, who owns a home on the mesas of New Mexico, now represent a new starting point in the housing market, one that developers say has upended the entrenched narrative of homeowner evolution. 
 For years, the story went like this: With their buying power crimped by college debt, entry-level salaries and meager savings accounts, many of the youngest buyers started small. They bought studio apartments, one-bedroom bungalows or modest town houses in desirable neighborhoods or commuter suburbs, sacrificing space for location. They traded up for more space as they had children, received promotions, bought second cars and accrued more and more stuff. 
 But now, ''the 20-somethings don't have the same attitude,'' said Mr. Smith, the developer. ''They're willing to do whatever they can to get it now. They're willing to take a leap.''
 Chad Horne, president of Windward Homes in Tampa, Fla., another branch of Hovnanian Homes, said an 1,800-square-foot house on a one-tenth-acre lot close to the city costs more than a 2,200-square-foot home on a quarter acre in far-flung Pasco County. Younger buyers often take the bigger, more distant house.
 Ms. Candelaria was still in high school when she decided to buy a house, and saved everything from jobs at J. C. Penney and local hair salons. Once she graduated and got an administrative job at a center for mentally disabled adults, she began scouring the outer-ring suburbs of Albuquerque for a home. 
 After seven months of seeing homes that were either too shabby or too expensive, Ms. Candelaria said she stumbled onto a sales office for KB Home, a developer that was building a subdivision in the desert. For $119,000 -- about half of the national median home price, $220,000 -- Ms. Candelaria got a new three-bedroom house with a tile roof and a yard for her dog, Roxy, a German shepherd-Rottweiler mix. 
 A young family lives on one side of Ms. Candelaria; on the other, an elderly woman who marveled that Ms. Candelaria had become a homeowner at 20.
 ''Even though I'm young, partying isn't a priority for me,'' Ms. Candelaria said. ''Where I'm going to sleep at night is more of a priority. I don't mind the fact that I have to drive awhile if I want to get to the clubs.''
 In Queen Creek, Ariz., about 95 miles north of Tucson, Alan and Jenny Bradford, both 25, pay the price of distance in gasoline and time. They bought a $127,900 three-bedroom in the Castlegate subdivision, an affordable but far-flung community connected to highways by an overburdened two-lane road. The Bradfords have a pool in the backyard, but have to drive 20 minutes to get to the grocery store. ''Sometimes, it'll take me two hours to get to work,'' said Mr. Bradford.But those clogged roads symbolized growth and development, harbingers that the Bradfords' investment was paying off. A neighbor across the street recently sold out for $240,000, and Mr. Bradford expects to fare even better when he sells his house.
 ''Looking back, it's the best decision we've made,'' he said.
 Some young buyers have come to love the allure of the far-flung suburbs. The skies are dark at night, and nature preserves or forests abut their subdivisions. They are remote enough to walk the dog down the middle of the road, but near enough to suburban staples like Wal-Mart and Applebee's.
 Britni Wood, 25, a teacher in Springs, Tex., north of Houston, said she feels more rooted on the covered patio of her $116,000 house than surrounded by Houston's skyscrapers.
 ''I know where I am,'' she said. ''This is a home, and this is a neighborhood. Downtown, you don't have that sense.''
 Often, buyers say the exurbs and their new homes are little more than a springboard to more money or something better. Before Bryan Hollermeier bought a home in Littleton, Colo., at age 23, he said, he debated buying a loft in downtown Denver. His friends lived in the city, and he drove downtown on weekend nights to dance at hip-hop clubs. But while the downtown lofts had modest resale values, the new homes south of town seemed undervalued and ripe to appreciate. He pounced and bought a 1,600-square-foot house.
 ''I made my decision based on investment -- whether it will appreciate and whether I can sell if the market turns bad,'' Mr. Hollermeier said. ''I'm pretty conservative with savings. I'm 25 and should probably be having fun, but I have a budget.''
 Mr. Hollermeier said he hopes to earn enough buying and selling homes to retire by age 40. 
 For other young buyers in the exurbs, trading up is a means to a different end. Tom Wasberg, who owns a split-level three-bedroom home in Woodstock, Ill., about an hour west of Chicago, plans to stay for three to five years and sell. He plans to use the profits to buy again, as close to the city as possible.


GRAPHIC: Photos: HAPPY HOMEOWNERS -- Ashley Candelaria, left, bought her three-bedroom home in Rio Rancho, N.M., shortly after graduating from high school. Bryan Hollermeier, right, moved into his Littleton, Colo., house at age 23, and he hopes to earn enough money buying and selling other houses to retire by 40. Britni Wood, who owns a house north of Houston, says she prefers suburbs over skyscrapers. (Photo by Rick Scibelli Jr. for The New York Times)
(Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (61%); CENSUS (50%) Housing; Age (Chronological); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Finances; Rural Areas; Housing

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (56%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (55%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (56%); HOV (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (55%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (55%)

PERSON: Patrick O'Gilfoil Healy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



2 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Long Island; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Livening Up Communities With Temporary Ice Rinks 

BYLINE: By VALERIE COTSALAS

DATELINE: GREENPORT 

 BODY:
KEITH McCAMY glided past a group of wobbly skaters in Greenport's winter ice rink on a December Saturday, crossing one foot over the other as he leisurely rounded a turn on the skating oval.
 A tall, lithe man with a graying sea captain's beard, Mr. McCamy, 67, and five other village workers erected the ice rink walls in Mitchell Park in November, then rolled out mats of coolant-carrying pipes, hooked them up to a refrigeration unit, turned it on and hosed the oval with water for four days. 
The portable 70-by-140-foot ice rink opened to the public in early December in a refurbished waterfront park that was a deserted eyesore a few years ago in this eastern Suffolk village close to the tip of the North Fork. On some days, it has drawn hundreds of visitors from surrounding areas to downtown Greenport to skate.
 ''Christmas week is madness,'' Mr. McCamy, the rink manager, said. ''More than half the annual income comes on the Christmas holidays.'' 
 The bargain rates -- skates rent for $2, and adults can skate all day for $5 and children for $3 -- hint of the real reasons behind the attraction. 
 ''The primary purpose is to provide more recreation for our kids,'' said the mayor of Greenport village, Dave Kapell. ''It also has the added benefit of drawing traffic in wintertime to the business district.'' 
 For that traffic, the Greenport business community is grateful. ''It's been a big lift, especially for me; I'm right across the street,'' said Perry Angelson, owner of the Harbourfront Deli and Loft Restaurant. ''People come with their kids, they skate, they get hungry, so they go out to eat.''
 Greenport's year-round population of about 2,000 swells to 3,000 in summer, Mr. Kapell said, and up to 7,000 visitors on some summer days. 
 But in winter, downtown shops have to compete with the Tanger Outlet Center and big-box stores 25 miles away in Riverhead.
 Rich Tulipano, the owner of the Atlantic Sport Center on Main Street, said sales of hockey equipment and ice skates have doubled since the rink went up (it was open for half the winter last year). While those sales are only a part of his sporting goods business, he said, it has made a difference. ''It's not a fortune we're talking about here,'' Mr. Tulipano said. ''But it's something at a time when I would otherwise put a chaise lounge out in the middle of the street and relax.''
 Other communities in the New York metropolitan area have also seen the draw of ice rinks for downtowns in winter.
 The village of Port Jefferson in western Suffolk opened a 90-by-50-foot rink in early December, just in time for the village's three-day Dickens Festival, where people (and skaters) perform in Victorian period dress. The rink is in the newly renovated Harborfront Park looking out over Long Island Sound. A new village center next door has space for skaters to put on their rented skates, get warm and buy hot drinks. 
 Permanent ice rinks require six or seven acres of flat land, according to Steve Rostkowski, president of Industrial Refrigeration, which built the Port Jefferson rink. Developers would sooner build houses than a rink on that land to maximize their profits.
 ''The real estate really is what's driving the market right now for temporary rinks,'' he said. ''You don't need a lot of property, you can basically build them anywhere, and they're relatively inexpensive.''
 The land that a temporary rink sits on can also be used for other attractions. When the Greenport rink is put away, a sprinkler park opens up at the same site.
 County and state agencies recognize the sense of place that ice rinks add to downtown shopping districts. The New York State Department of Parks and Recreation gave the villages of Port Jefferson and Greenport more than $300,000 each to purchase their rinks. A Suffolk County revitalization program awarded Port Jefferson $25,000 to buy a Zamboni machine to smooth the ice.
 In supporting the rink, ''we were looking for major projects that would have a real economic impact on the downtown,'' said Jim Morgo, Suffolk's commissioner of economic development and work force housing.
 John Burley, the vice president of Pennsylvania-based Burley's Arena Ice Systems, which supplied the Greenport rink, said that while there was always demand for temporary rinks from malls and other commercial enterprises, the interest on the part of municipalities has particularly increased in the last three years. ''Every year it seems like the inquiries for that market is about double,'' Mr. Burley said. 
 Rinks can range from completely portable, with refrigeration units driven in on a trailer, to semiportable, like the $700,000 Greenport rink operation, where the refrigeration unit, ticket office and warming hut are inside permanent buildings. It also offers some features like those in indoor rinks, including 170 pairs of rental skates, a Zamboni machine and hot chocolate ($1.50 a cup, $2 with whipped cream).
 Martha Tuthill, who moved six years ago with her family from Nassau County to Orient on the eastern end of Suffolk's North Fork, took her four children to skate in Greenport on a recent Saturday.
 ''Everybody was very excited'' when the rink opened, Ms. Tuthill said. She planned to take the children for lunch, she said, then to the barbershop for haircuts and finally down the street for Christmas shopping. ''There are great shops and boutiques along Main Street,'' Ms. Tuthill said. 
 Residential and retail developers, especially those that build near the water, are using ice rinks to bring in shoppers. Pier Village in Long Branch, N.J., a waterfront development of 320 condominiums and 30 shops, opened a synthetic ice rink -- a polyethylene icelike surface that does not need refrigeration -- a week before Christmas. 
 Skaters can use the rink for $2 an hour and rent skates for a dollar. The developers are planning a couples-only skate for Valentine's Day (free champagne and roses) and birthday skating parties for children.
 ''We have a lot of retail, so we do a lot to draw people here,'' said Greg Russo, a vice president of the Applied Development Company, which built Pier Village. ''In the summer, it's easy. It's on the ocean. We show movies; we have volleyball tournaments. For the winter, we thought about a bunch of different things and settled on the ice rink.''
 In Greenport on Long Island, in the spot where the full-fledged ice rink now sits, there was once a large puddle ringed with hay bales where children would skate away desolate winter days when the temperature was low enough to freeze the water. 
 By refurbishing the park and adding an ice rink, ''we gave ourselves something as a community,'' Mr. Kapell said. ''It serves as a major focal point and, on top of that, it has proved a dynamo for the local economy.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: WINTER ATTRACTION -- Workers in Greenport set up the temporary ice rink in Mitchell Park in early November (bottom photos), and a month later it was getting active use. Downtown merchants say it provides a lift for stores. (Photos by Top, Doug Kuntz for The New York Times
 bottom, photographs by Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (92%); ICE SKATING (90%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); RETAILERS (85%); CHRISTMAS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%) Ice Skating; Retail Stores and Trade

PERSON: Valerie Cotsalas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Greenport (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



3 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: The Legacies They Left

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER

 BODY:

Paul Townsend
Journalist with a promotional pen
 On his final trip to the pulpit, a 2003 column in Salute to Long Island Business, a journal celebrating the 50th anniversary of Long Island Business News, Paul Townsend called the shots the way he saw them, as he always had. The Island's high property taxes could be trimmed, he wrote, by ''cutting bloated bureaucracy.'' 
 Long Island's 126 public school districts should be consolidated into one regional district, he wrote. ''Long Island can become a leader in affordable housing by adjusting zoning to permit smart growth, apartments in second-story downtown buildings and in large houses,'' he said. 
For 40 years Paul Townsend blurred the line between publicist and journalist, using the power of the printed word as a strong voice to further the social and economic platform he believed in and to bolster his public-relations clients. His forum was The Townsend Letter, a column that appeared on the front page of Long Island Business News, the weekly newspaper he owned with his wife, Terry. 
 ''He stood for and he championed concepts and projects to unify and advance Long Island,'' Mrs. Townsend said. ''He was very outspoken.''
 Mr. Townsend, a 10th-generation Long Islander whose family helped found Oyster Bay, bought Long Island Business News in 1958 for $5,000 from Arthur Hug, who had started the newspaper in 1953 as The Long Island Commercial Review, a weekly. 
 When Mr. Townsend took over, he hoped the newspaper would become ''an aggressive voice for a more aggressive business presence on the Island,'' he once said in an interview. 
 Earlier, Mr. Townsend had helped two of his public-relations clients, William and Alfred Levitt, get approval to use drywall construction rather than plaster, hastening the building of Levittown. Mr. Townsend also aided William Zeckendorf's efforts to develop the Roosevelt Field shopping mall. 
 Mr. Townsend won some battles and lost others, including an attempt to keep Mitchel Field Airport as a major transportation hub. His push for a bridge spanning the Long Island Sound to Connecticut was unsuccessful. 
 But his clout helped win the day when he tried to stop Robert Moses from building a road down Fire Island, and he worked with the federal government to create the Fire Island National Seashore.
 His slogan ''MacArthur Airport -- Use It or Lose It'' helped his campaign to expand the airport in Islip. He also campaigned successfully to have Nassau and Suffolk Counties designated as a separate metropolitan statistical area. 
 Mr. Townsend ran a series of annual ''Star Nites'' at the Roosevelt Field and Belmont Park racetracks featuring celebrities who helped raise money for local hospitals. That effort evolved into an eight-year run as the executive director of the Long Island Fund, now United Way of Long Island. 
 He helped establish and was the development director of North Shore University Hospital and the nonsectarian Mill River and Old Westbury golf clubs. He was the professional development director for 18 Long Island institutions and a volunteer trustee of 26 service groups. 
 Mr. Townsend was instrumental in establishing the Long Island MacArthur Businessmen's Association, the Long Island Forum for Technology, the Fundraising Professionals of Long Island and the Long Island Convention and Visitors Bureau.
 Mr. Townsend was tall and athletic looking, with a shock of white hair. ''He was big as life,'' said Mrs. Townsend, his wife of 44 years. ''He was always loquacious. He always had something to say. And he had a jovial laugh.''
 After suffering a stroke, Mr. Townsend sold the paper in 1998 to the Dolan Media Company of Minneapolis. John Kominicki took over as publisher.
 ''He was such a 'get things done' kind of guy,'' Mr. Kominicki said of his predecessor. ''He lived in a time on Long Island and in a place on Long Island when there were a lot of things that needed to get done and at a time when you could really get things done before the bureaucracy and the politics and the nimbyism.'' 
 At the end of his final column, Mr. Townsend beat the drum optimistically. ''With vision, energy and common sense,'' he wrote, ''Long Island can solve its problems and be the nation's No. 1 region.''
 Mr. Townsend died of pneumonia on April 30. He was 86. MARCELLE S. FISCHLER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); ZONING (76%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (68%); CELEBRITIES (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (61%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (56%); HOSPITALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



4 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER: INTERNATIONAL PHONE SERVICE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: Calling From Abroad at Reasonable Rates 

BYLINE: By DAVID A. KELLY

 BODY:
WHILE internationally capable cell phones make calling home from abroad convenient, they're not always the most economical choice. For travelers looking for inexpensive alternatives, there are several options: new Internet-based voice services, callback services and one of the most low-tech -- and low-cost-- options: prepaid calling cards. 

INTERNET-BASED SERVICES
 The big news in calling home cheaply is ''voice over Internet protocol'' (VoIP) services like Vonage (www.vonage.com), which is based in Holmdel, N.J., or Skype (www.skype.com), a company based in Luxembourg that was recently purchased by eBay. Since VoIP services generally work best with a broadband or wireless Internet connection, they are recommended for travelers who want to make calls from fixed locations, such as their hotel rooms or a conference room -- although they can also be used from Internet cafes, or wireless hot spots if you have a notebook computer. (Some specialized VoIP services or phones like Vonage's Wi-Fi Utstarcom F1000 phone will only work at 'open' hot spots that do not require a user name or credit card.) 
VoIP works by digitizing your voice and sending it via the Internet to the other caller, who hears it on his PC's speakers, or by routing it through regular telephone lines to anyone's standard phone line. 
 ''VoIP is great if you know you'll be close to high-speed data lines,'' says David Rowell, founder of the Travel Insider, a Web site and online newsletter that focuses on travel and travel-related technologies (www.thetravelinsider.info). But, Mr. Rowell adds, ''it's problematic if you're on dial-up,'' in part because of insufficient bandwidth and speed, which may result in voice distortions. 
 VoIP is especially good for travelers with access to the Internet who want to talk a long time or have friends or associates who have VoIP accounts. You'll probably want to sign up for VoIP services before an international trip, since some, like Vonage, typically need a broadband phone adapter or specialized software for your laptop. When traveling, plug the adapter into an Internet connection, then plug the standard landline phone you've brought along into the adapter, and you can make calls like you're back at home. 
 Alternatively, Skype allows users to sign up instantly and start calling right away, as long as they have computers that can connect to the Internet. Signing up with Skype is free, unless you want to call non-Skype phone numbers, in which case you'll need to purchase SkypeOut credits for 10 euros, about $12.30 at $1.23 to the euro. Among the plans that Vonage offers is a $14.99 monthly plan that includes 500 minutes of calls to the United States, Puerto Rico and Canada, and a $9.99 a month SoftPhone option that allows subscribers to use their PC's or Mac's to make and receive calls. 
 While many VoIP services allow you to talk free to other computer-based VoIP users, calls that need to originate (someone calls you) or terminate (you're calling mom) using a standard (non-Internet) phone will cost money. But since the majority of the call transport is done via the Internet and the connections into and out of the Internet are typically done as local calls, the rates are astonishing low. For example, Skype's SkypeOut product allows users to call the United States, Europe and Asia for .017 European cents a minute (about .021 American cents a minute). Vonage calls using the Vonage adapter or Vonage PC-based SoftPhone software from anywhere in the world to the United States are billed as part of your monthly minutes or cost 3.9 cents a minute if you've exceeded your monthly limit. Additional per minute changes apply to calls that terminate in other countries besides Canada and Puerto Rico. 

CALLING CARDS
 ''As high-tech obsessed as I am, I still use calling cards when traveling because they are typically one of the least expensive ways to call home,'' says Mr. Rowell. 
 Calling cards provide the ultimate in flexibility for calling home, since they can be used from most locations -- including pay phones, cell phones and landlines. They're also good for travelers who don't carry computers and who change locations frequently.
 But be aware that not all calling cards are the same -- especially when traveling overseas. ''Some calling cards are basically shams,'' says Mr. Rowell, who typically purchases prepaid calling cards from local convenience stores or news kiosks when he is traveling. ''They don't time the minutes accurately or you don't get what you paid for.'' 
 When buying a calling card overseas, Mr. Rowell recommends shopping around for the best rates. He also suggests buying a low value card first and confirming that the rates are as promised and call times are measured accurately. "Some cards have hidden fees that are only apparent after making some calls" he said.
 It's also a good idea to compare the rate options associated with different cards, whether you purchase them before you travel or while you're on the road. Some charge a per-connection fee as well as a per-minute fee (for example, a call with AT&T's USADirect plan and its calling card incurs an 89-cents-a-call surcharge) If you make a lot of short calls, the per-connection fees can add up quickly. Alternatively, MinutePass provides low rates (for example, 14 United States cents a minute from Canada to the United States) without a connection fee.

CALLBACK SERVICES
 For travelers staying abroad for long periods of time, and who plan on initiating lots of outgoing international calls, callback (or return call) services offer a relatively inexpensive alternative to direct-dial calls and frequently even prepaid calling cards. Callback services operate as one might expect -- you place a call from a foreign location to a ''trigger'' number (a connection to the callback services' computers), let the call ring once and then hang up. The computer than calls back (from the United States, using much lower, predetermined international rates) and prompts the user for his or her account number and the number to be dialed and then makes the connection once the account has been verified. Instead of expensive direct-dial charges, the user is charged a predetermined and frequently much lower price for the long-distance call. For example, a call from Brussels to the United States, using Telestial's (www.telestial.com) callback service would cost 17.1 cents a minute. There is no cost for signing up with Telestial and you're billed only if you use the service. 
 ''Callback services work well anywhere, but we find customers using them primarily in places like the Middle East, Africa, or Latin America where it's expensive to make a direct-dial international call,'' says Ken Grunski, chief executive of Telestial, which sells return call services, prepaid calling cards, mobile phones and more. ''In Europe, it's easy to get prepaid calling cards for inexpensive long distance calls, but in other areas where you're typically dealing with monopolies it's much more expensive to call internationally.''
 Callback services are often cheaper than prepaid calling cards. For example, instead of paying 30 cents a minute plus local charges for a call from Spain to the United States using MCI's MinutePass prepaid card, Telestial's return call service would cost 16 cents a minute. Telestial's customers are billed only when they use the service, so it's a good backup option for any traveler to have -- especially if you anticipate the need for long calls or extended stays. 
 Since some hotels may block computer-generated callback requests, because they may seem like unsolicited calls or the hotels simply want guests to pay higher, hotel rates, callback services may not work well for travelers staying in hotels. They work better for Americans living overseas or travelers staying in one place for a while. Callback services can also be used with mobile phones and can be especially economical with mobile phones that have been set up with a local number (by changing the electronic identification card, or SIM, used in international cell phones), allowing them to receive incoming calls free in most countries outside the United States.
 Another alternative is to agree on some type of code, such as letting the phone ring twice and then hanging up, so that someone back home will know to call you at an agreed-upon number. ''Generally it will be cheaper for someone to call from the United States to foreign countries than the other way around,'' says Mr. Rowell.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tim Robinson)Chart: ''TAKE YOUR CHOICE''Whether you prefer high-tech options or more conventional landlines, there are several affordable ways to call home from abroad, even if you don't carry a cellphone.PREPAID CALLING CARDSWho should use it: Travelers who don't carry computers
technophobes.Options:MCI's MinutePass (www.minutepass.com/GlobalService.asp)No per call surcharge. Rates vary, depending on the country. Calls from Canada to the U.S. cost 14 cents a minute.Kosmos (www.ksurf.net)Available at most Paris kiosks and tabac shops for 15 euros (approximately $18)
 provides 540 minutes of time to the United States, Canada and Europe.CALLBACK SERVICESWho should use it: Those traveling for long periods, and who plan on making a lot of international calls.Option:Telestial (www.telestial.com/callback.php) Sign-up is free. To call the U.S. from Bangkok is 19 cents a minute.VOICE OVER INTERNET PROTOCOL (VoIP)Who should use it: Travelers who have access to broadband or wireless Internet.Options:Vonage (www.vonage.com)In-network calls are free. Choices include a $14.99 plan, which buys 500 minutes a month for calls to traditional phone lines within the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico.Skype (www.skype.com)Sign-up is free. Service between Skype subscribers is free. To call traditional phone lines in Europe, Canada, China, the United States (excluding Hawaii and Alaska) and other countries, Skype offers a SkypeOut Global Rate of less than one cent a minute. Users must puchase credit in advance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET TELEPHONY (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); BANDWIDTH (77%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (76%); BROADBAND (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); PREPAID CARDS (71%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Travel and Vacations; Cellular Telephones; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: VONAGE HOLDINGS CORP (92%); SKYPE SARL (92%); UTSTARCOM HOLDINGS CORP (55%)

TICKER: VG (NYSE) (92%); UTSI (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%)

PERSON: David a Kelly

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); LUXEMBOURG (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



5 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: The Big Winner, Again, Is 'Scandalot'

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
SAME stuff, different year. 
 That's one way to look at 2005, the fourth consecutive year in which corporate chicanery loomed large. But while business titans' transgressions may have lacked creativity last year -- there was the usual hubris, greed and accounting tricks to prop up stock prices -- at least the cast of ''Scandalot 2005'' involved a few new characters.
Maurice R. Greenberg, for instance, the revered chief executive of American International Group, was chased off stage by the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, proving that even the most entrenched and imperious executives can be vulnerable to ouster. And a batch of scoundrels surfaced when a couple of hedge funds blew up last year. It's interesting that Bayou Capital, a $450 million fund, went bust just as Hurricane Katrina swamped New Orleans. 
 Greed was on display throughout 2005 as throngs of executives pocketed pay that was even greater than the previous year's. To hear them talk, they deserved the amounts because -- are you sitting down? -- they enhanced shareholder value. Never mind that many of their companies' stocks ended the year lower than where they began it. 
 Some C.E.O. sinners from previous years got ready for their close-ups in 2005. L. Dennis Kozlowski, formerly of Tyco International, and Bernard J. Ebbers, late of WorldCom, sat for mug shots, donned orange jumpsuits and toddled off to jail. 
 So, again, it is time to administer the Augustus Melmotte Annual Prizes, named for the stock promoter and arriviste strutting through the pages of ''The Way We Live Now,'' the novel by Anthony Trollope. Mr. Melmotte reaches the pinnacle of London society, but then the railroad-company shares he is peddling are found to be a scam.
 Here are the 2005 prizes and winners.

THE TOUGH GUYS FINISH LAST AWARD To Philip J. Purcell, the former chief executive of Morgan Stanley, who was defenestrated last June. Under Mr. Purcell and his legal attack dog, Donald G. Kempf Jr., Morgan Stanley regularly snubbed regulators, flouted e-mail retention rules and so enraged the judge overseeing a lawsuit brought by Ronald O. Perelman that she eased the way to a $1.45 billion jury award against Morgan Stanley in the case. Both men's resignations prove that hardball can sometimes backfire, even on veteran players.

THE ROUND WHEEL AWARD To Mr. Greenberg, the once-autocratic ruler of A.I.G., who often dispatched underlings to browbeat insurance regulators. Last year he finally met a watchdog he couldn't roll -- Mr. Spitzer -- who sued the executive, accusing him of manipulating A.I.G.'s financial results and misleading investors. Mr. Greenberg, who says he did nothing wrong, called it a case of regulatory overreach. That's hardly surprising, though, given that regulatory pushback of any kind was an entirely new scene for Mr. Greenberg.

THE DOG ATE MY DISCLOSURE AWARD To Gary L. Wilson, chairman of Northwest Airlines, who failed to divulge the sale of some $1.8 million in Northwest shares within the two-day period that regulators require. The rules on executives' disclosures of stock sales are designed to keep outside investors informed of insiders' actions, which, of course, can be telling.
 Mr. Wilson's timing on the sales was good: between the days in late August when he dumped his shares and the time he reported his sales almost three weeks later, Northwest filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Mr. Wilson received $5.07 to $5.84 a share for his stock; by the time he filed his disclosure statement, Northwest's shares were trading at less than $1. A Northwest spokeswoman said the disclosure lapse was the result of ''an administrative error.'' 

THE LET THEM EAT CAKE AWARD To Robert S. Miller, the newly installed chief executive of Delphi, the auto parts manufacturer operating in bankruptcy, who made the command decision to cut workers' pay and benefits while pushing for a munificent compensation package for the company's executives. When asking the bankruptcy court to approve the package, worth an estimated $110 million, Delphi's lawyers made no mention of the fact that several executives in line for the generous pay were also on hand during the years when Delphi's accounting wasn't always proper. After an outcry from Delphi shareholders, the company took back the pay package for a do-over. Who knows? Maybe they'll ask for more.

THE RIDIN' THE GRAVY TRAIN AWARD To James M. Kilts, chief executive of Gillette and recipient of $175 million when the company was taken over last October by Procter & Gamble. The money consisted mostly of stock options that became exercisable when Gillette changed hands and are equal to 35 percent of the company's net income in its last quarter as a standalone company. Not bad for four years' work: Mr. Kilts, who serves on The New York Times Company board of directors, joined Gillette in 2001.

THE HINDSIGHT IS 20-20 AWARD To Charles O. Prince III, chief executive of Citigroup and head sanitation man in charge of cleaning up the company's practices. ''I wish we had never heard of Bernie Ebbers,'' Mr. Prince said when he was deposed in a shareholder lawsuit against Jack Grubman, Citigroup's disgraced telecom analyst. Certainly understandable, since Citigroup paid $2.65 billion to settle with investors who contended that the bank had defrauded them when it sold WorldCom bonds a few years before it went bankrupt. But Citigroup sure liked the color of Mr. Ebbers's money all those years that WorldCom was a paying customer.

THE HOPE YOU HAVEN'T SPENT IT ALL AWARD To Joseph P. Nacchio, the former chief executive of Qwest Communications, who reaped $100 million in stock sales that the Securities and Exchange Commission said were illegal. The commission sued Mr. Nacchio on the grounds of insider trading as 2005 was drawing to a close, contending that five years earlier he sold Qwest shares when he knew that the company's prospects were dimming. That suit followed a March case brought by the commission against Mr. Nacchio, accusing him of overstating Qwest's revenue.
 Mr. Nacchio said he looked forward to clearing his name in court. So did Mr. Ebbers. 
 Finally, accolades to Peter F. Drucker, the expert in management theory, who died last year at the age of 95. A truth teller, even to the powerful, he swatted down the propaganda that stock option plans align managers' interests with those of company shareholders. 
 Instead, Mr. Drucker identified option plans as an ''encouragement to loot the corporation.'' As he phrased it, ''Instead of asking, 'Are we making the right decision?' '' option plans encourage executives to say, ''How did we close today?'' 
 Mr. Drucker was equally trenchant on the subject of executive pay. ''It is a business responsibility, but also a business self-interest,'' he said, ''to develop a sensible executive compensation structure that portrays economic reality and asserts and codifies the achievement of U.S. business in this century: the steady narrowing of the income gap between the boss man and the working man.'' 
 Alas, in recent years chief executives have been working to widen that gap, through which they easily drive their G5 corporate jets.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawing by Charlie Powell)(pg. 1)
 (Drawing by Charlie Powell)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LITIGATION (75%); INSURANCE (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); JUDGES (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (68%); VERDICTS (67%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (61%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (61%); JURY TRIALS (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (55%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (82%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (54%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (82%); AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%); TYC (NYSE) (54%); VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (54%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (55%); RONALD PERELMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (77%) LOUISIANA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



6 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Heat From the Earth To Warm Your Hearth

BYLINE: By BARRY REHFELD

 BODY:
RUSS ROOT made an efficient move last year -- to a new home he had built in Goshen, Conn. While it is considerably bigger than his former house, in Chenango Forks, N.Y., it will cost far less to cool and to heat. That is because he did something he had thought about ever since he built his last house, 15 years earlier: he installed a geothermal system instead of an oil-guzzling boiler. 
 Now all the heat to warm his house is supplied by the earth beneath him. It's pumped up, through plastic piping, in water circulating in his backyard six feet underground -- where the temperature stays at about 45 degrees -- and distributed by a fan through the house's ductwork as air warmed to around 95 degrees.
The bill for Mr. Root's geothermal pump, its ground loop of piping and the house's ductwork was just over $21,500. While a geothermal system, including labor, typically costs more than a comparable furnace and air-conditioning system, the price was about the same for Mr. Root, because the extra expense of digging and looping -- $1,500 in his case -- was more than offset by a $2,000 rebate from Connecticut Light and Power. 
 ''I was in the black from the day I moved in,'' said Mr. Root, who is a lineman for the utility, which treated him as it would any customer.
 The water circulates through the geothermal pump over coils containing refrigerant, which absorbs its heat. The refrigerant is then raised to the higher temperature under pressure by a compressor. In the summer, the method is reversed. His home is cooled by circulating hot air out of the house -- a process that is similar to the operation of a refrigerator, an appliance that his basement pump resembles. 
 The system is quiet, clean and odorless, and uses little electricity. Maintenance consists of cleaning a filter every few months; the pipes are guaranteed to last 50 years. There are virtually no moving parts other than the pump. After living for more than a year in the 2,900-square-foot home, a third bigger than his old house, Mr. Root finds that his energy costs are running about 20 percent less than the $2,700 he used to spend, or about 40 percent less per square foot. 
 And he is likely to reap added benefits when he sells the house. A 1998 study commissioned by the Environmental Protection Agency found that a home's value rises an average of $20 for each $1 decrease in the annual utility bill. 
 Although the notion of tapping the earth's heat has been around forever and the basic technology has existed for decades, the many advantages have only recently begun to win widespread attention. The big reasons are concern for the environment and, more to the point, money. Geothermal systems are becoming increasingly competitive, even for homes in which an old furnace and air-conditioning system must first be removed. 
 After a decade in which installations grew 20 percent a year, a million American homes -- both old and new -- now have geothermal heat pumps, said Jessica Commins, a spokeswoman for the Geothermal Heat Pump Consortium. And a growing number of celebrity homeowners who use them -- like the country music star Toby Keith, the Home Depot co-founder Arthur Blank, the actor Ed Begley Jr. and President Bush -- have helped to raise the technology's profile. 
 Energy legislation last summer increased the financial support for these systems. The law provides for $300 in federal tax incentives and includes a provision allowing for a $2,000 federal incentive for home improvements that reduce energy costs by more than 50 percent. Geothermal systems can trim 30 percent to 75 percent of the cost to heat and cool, so many installations would qualify. 
 But the biggest driver is the cost of fossil fuel. With the Energy Department predicting huge jumps in residential oil and natural gas costs for winter heating -- 27 percent for oil and 41 percent for gas -- shipments of geothermal pumps doubled during the last three months, Ms. Commins said. 
 Now, ''the front-end costs are within reach,'' said Roy Mink, director of the Energy Department's geothermal program. At the same time, he said, ''there's more competition for geothermal business, and that's driving down the price of installing them by 10 percent.'' 
 The payback period depends on a variety of factors, including the type of system, the installer and the location and size of the house. Typically, it takes 3 to 10 years before fuel savings equal the cost of the pipes and placing them in the ground; indoors, the cost of traditional and geothermal systems is roughly the same. Of course, the greater the heating and cooling needs and the higher the fuel costs, the quicker the payback. A 2,500-square-foot home in New York City with a standard furnace and central air costs $3,200 a year, on average, for heating, cooling and hot water, versus $1,800 for a geothermal system; in Los Angeles, the figures are $1,600 and $800.
 Installers generally stick to one brand of pump to get better pricing from the manufacturer, so the installer and pump tend to be a package deal. The standard for installers is certification by the International Ground Source Heat Pump Association; the most desirable pumps carry an Energy Star efficiency rating. Among the brands earning that rating are WaterFurnace, ClimateMaster, Trane, Hydro Delta, McQuay and Econar. 
 ''Water Furnace is the Cadillac,'' said Steve Brown, co-owner of Carl Franklin Homes in Dallas, a builder of homes with geothermal systems. ''But there are a lot of good pumps, and it's more important who puts in the system. You have to shop around to get the best deal.''
 Installers generally recommend three types of systems: those with horizontal, open vertical and closed vertical loops. A horizontal loop system, typically an E-formation that requires about a half-acre, is recommended when homeowners have the space, as Mr. Root did. It is generally the least expensive, and its costs fall further if it is part of new construction, because its installation can be combined with the laying of the foundation. 
 The cost of a loop varies greatly, from about $1,000 for a horizontal loop connected to a modest house in the West, where geothermal systems are more common and homeowners have more options, to $50,000 or more for a vertical closed loop attached to a mansion atop New England bedrock.
 A vertical loop, generally two or more connected branches extending more than 200 feet into the ground, is the urban choice; it requires less surface area but is likely to cost more because of the drilling expense. 
 THERE are also open vertical systems, which are drilled in much the same way as a water well and may be used when there is access to an aquifer. These may do double duty in rural areas by providing homes with drinking water. 
 Steve Toma has an open system in his new 7,000-square-foot home in Mendham, N.J., that taps a well 1,400 feet down. Because of its unusual depth, it was expensive to drill. He also has extras like filtration equipment and a radiant-heat grid, which add significantly to the cost. His system cost more than $135,000, roughly 30 percent more than an equivalent traditional oil or natural gas installation; he expects to earn back the difference in about eight years.
 ''It's a big investment, but there's the green aspect,'' he said. ''You can't put a dollar on it.''
 For a relatively few lucky homeowners, there is an option that delivers the best of both green worlds. It's the pond loop, for homes near a body of water that is at least eight feet deep year-round. There are no digging or drilling costs, just the cost of a Slinky-like tubing coil and the labor of placing it at the bottom of the pond or lake. 
 ''It's generally the cheapest,'' said Kirk Bellanca, a co-owner of Enviro-Tech, an installer in Staatsburg, N.Y. ''You should get permission from the town, but they're almost always very supportive. The fish like it, too. It becomes part of their habitat.''
 In a sense, two comfortable homes for the price of one.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Russ Root checking the geothermal system at home in Goshen, Conn., with his daughter, Mackenzie, 6. He said the unit had reduced his energy costs by 20 percent. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); UTILITY RATES (75%); PLASTIC PIPES & FITTINGS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%) Heating; Geothermal Power; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT LIGHT & POWER CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Energy Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (55%)

PERSON: Barry Rehfeld; Russ Root

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



7 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: New World Economy

 BODY:
Matt Bai's essay on the inevitability of Wal-Mart seems to assume that most Americans are willing to give up Social Security, employer-financed health care and a living wage in order to buy Xboxes and laptops at deep discounts (Dec. 18). His argument only strengthens the image of two Americas -- the one, as Bai writes, ''where so many Americans earn stock dividends and where a growing number are self-employed''; and the other, where 1.3 million workers are employed by Wal-Mart, many at a subsistence-level income. 
 This stark choice could define the nature of our democracy in the 21st century: will we elect representatives who care more about our quality of life than about our quantity of stuff? It gives new meaning to the expression ''Being sold a bill of goods.''

Brian Lohmann
 North Hollywood, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LIVING WAGE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (88%); RETAILERS (84%); DIVIDENDS (55%) Retail Stores and Trade

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

PERSON: Brian Lohmann; Matt Bai

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



8 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; Eat, Memory; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: The Kyoto Treat

BYLINE: By Heidi Julavits. 
Heidi Julavits is an editor of the cultural magazine The Believer. Her novel ''The Uses of Enchantment'' will come out in October.

 BODY:
I graduated from college in 1990, an uncertain time indeed. Recession. Gulf war imminent. In keeping with the shaky global mood, I haven't a clue what to do with my life. So I decide to move to Japan to teach the only thing I can confidently claim to know after four years of college: English. In America, I reason, the only thing more shameful than not knowing what you want is knowing, with absolute certainty, that stuffed animals turn you on. In Japan I'll be immersed in a culture that nurtures uncertainty as a form of enlightenment. I remind myself of the Zen-like quotation ''Emotional freedom comes with being aware of the certainty of uncertainty.'' I will go to Japan, I will be certainly uncertain and I will reach a higher plane of existence while eating amazing food. 
I find a sublet in a functional-blah apartment building off Shijo Street in Kyoto, and two things happen: I remain unenlightened by my uncertainty, and I eat amazing food. A typical on-the-cheap lunch bowl, offered in local spots displaying dusty plastic food in the window, is katsu-don, a fried pork cutlet with scrambled eggs, served with rice and a sweet donburi sauce; or tekka-don, strips of raw tuna and pressed dried seaweed over rice. A Japanese family invites me to dinner each week for shabu shabu: a pot of water and enoki mushrooms, set on an electric table-top coil, in which we poach very thin slices of beef or hacked-up Alaskan king crab; after the meat is finished, we dump our rice into the broth and slurp the resulting porridgy soup. 
 As the months pass, I remain miserably uncertain about all things but one: I would kill for a trashy American sweet. I do not miss cheese or pasta or even my friends, but I do miss, with a maddening intensity, that blast of sugar that only a glazed cruller can provide. Plenty of Japanese bakeries offer deceptively Western-looking cakes and cookies, which reveal themselves to be gaggingly dry and possessing a slight aftertaste of fish, as if whatever fat the baker used came not from a cow or a pig but from a hake. I patronize a previously disdained restaurant called Spaghetti and Cake (Kyoto has a number of these ''Western'' establishments; another is Coffee and Golf) and am disappointed -- huge shock. The best of the lousy bunch is ring cake, a rolled-up yellow sponge cut into slices. But one day while working as a movie extra in a period film (1850's Yokohama being the period), I am forced to wear a bonnet and eat slice after slice of ring cake because the lead, a Japanese pop star, can't remember her three short lines. I come to hate ring cake. When another American tells me about a Western breakfast restaurant, I bike 10 miles through a downpour and order French toast as an excuse to deluge my plate with dyed-brown corn syrup, which I eat until I am headachingly ill.
 I orchestrate my own intervention. I remind myself that everybody knows that ersatz American food, or ersatz any food, is a doomed proposition. You must play to a culture's strengths and not order a cataplana of paella when in Green Bay, Wis. Yet my first encounters with the native sweets are alienating. Gummy lime green bean blobs dusted in a flavorless white flour, for example, are not only not sweet, but they also do not appeal to any of my tongue's five regions and are all the more disappointing for appearing so pretty.
 One dusky evening I am biking through Gion, Kyoto's geisha district, examining the window displays with their meticulously wrapped I-don't-know-what. (Jewelry? Art supplies? Stew meat?) One helpfully exhibits what's concealed beneath the wrapping: a bloated Fig Newton look-alike bisected to reveal a dense and grainy maroon center. I buy what I learn, decades later, is called manju. The filling is a paste made from red azuki beans and sugar. I call it a bean cake. I bike to Gion every day and buy two. 
 And so it is that I come to grapple with that oldest of Zen mysteries: the bean-cake conundrum. Of course I've been paddling around this riddle for months, but it's not until I encounter the bean cake that it assumes its most potent form. While eating a bean cake, I reach a moment when I don't need, or want, another bite. I experience what I believe is contentment (rather than ''no thought,'' think ''no appetite''), and despite what my layman's notion of Zen Buddhist nongoal goals lead me to expect, it is no blissfest. My American relationship to sugar is always to want more of it; to encounter a sweet that doesn't court abuse in order to be enjoyed destabilizes my entire concept of craving-cruller-gluttony-happiness. I feel these moments of so-called contentment when I have no pointed desires -- not a petit four to follow the chocolates to follow the tarte Tatin, not even a salt-funky cheese course as counterbalance -- to be physically unbearable and thus, by quick extrapolation, existentially crippling. Does this mean that contentment is anathema to my person? That contentment is a punishing mind-bender (to be content is to be less content than when you weren't content)? That this period of postcollege limbo has been encapsulated, in all its dumb, stereotypical hand-wringing, by a bean cake? 
 Two months later I am spiritually annihilated by contentment. I haven't had a craving in months, and I'm so worried that I won't desire anything ever again that I forget to worry about my uncertain future. I pack my things, and within 24 hours I am on a dawn bus to Phuket, Thailand. Suddenly I am seized by a familiar sense of specific urgency, a hunger disconnected from appetite: I want tekka-don for breakfast. I am on a bus in the south of Thailand, and I want -- no, must have -- a bowl of Japanese rice and raw tuna. While I'm beside myself with relief, I'm simultaneously aware of the bearhug of my iffy future (no job, no place to live, running out of money) tightening around my chest again with an intensity I interpret as affection. My uncertain future missed me, too. I get off the bus at the beach and stare at the aptly blank horizon. I am broke and aimless, I am racked by doubt and worry, I crave a food that's 3,000 miles away and I've never experienced such bliss in my life.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by James Whitlow Delano)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (87%); DESERT STORM (78%); DRAMA FILMS (78%); CHEESE (73%); PORK (73%); RESTAURANTS (68%); BAKERIES (66%); CELEBRITIES (63%) Food

PERSON: Heidi Julavits

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (91%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



9 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE FUNNY PAGES: II: TRUE-LIFE TALES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Snow Daze

BYLINE: By Demetri Martin. 
Demetri Martin is a writer and a comedian.

 BODY:
Not too long ago it snowed in New York City. Here's what I remember.
 Morning. I wake up early, throw on some layers. I head out to get supplies for sledding. First stop: Union Square. I go into a store and manage to grab the last sled in stock -- strong start. It's a round tube. This is good. (Tube = ideal for jumping, because of padding.) Next stop: Toys ''R'' Us. I cross the square, leaving tracks. The snow in the city is white, for now. My face is cold. The city is quiet. I feel great.
Cellphone to ear, I make two calls. I get two voice mailboxes. I leave two messages: ''Hey. It's Demetri. We're going sledding. Central Park. Call me, and I'll give you the details.'' Toys ''R'' Us is already out of sleds. (Probably swiped by some kids. Typical. They don't have jobs, which gives them the advantage here.) The store still has pool floats, though. Perfect. I buy the last two Millennium Falcon pool floats and throw them into my backpack. 
 Back to the subway, heading north to snow country, a k a Central Park. First order of business: configure hat and headphones to provide the optimum combination of warmth and acoustics. This takes some time, because I have those headphones that go directly into the ears. And often, putting them on with a hat means stabbing myself in the ears. A little finessing. . .done. 
 On the train, I get down to business and start to inflate the tube. This is the same as starting to almost faint. I stop and give a nod to some nearby passengers (in order to take my vibe down from ''crazy'' to ''just excited about sledding''). Inflation resumes.
 Out of the train and into Central Park. More fresh snow. More phone calls. I make about a dozen, actually. And I get a dozen voice-mail greetings. Losers. 
 I walk deeper into the park and find a hill near 79th Street. It's already crowded with families. Families and me. At first, my inner child sledder takes over. I scurry up the hill, wait in line and then cut in front of a couple of kids who seem to lack the passion I have for going next. But then, after a few runs and failed attempts at small talk, I realize something: I am a creep. (Note: Most parents don't take kindly to lone, bearded sledsmen who try to talk shop with their kids -- especially on the Upper West Side.) I decide it's time to move on. Losers. 
 At 72nd Street, on the East Side, I find a pretty good hill. It's wide. I do a few runs. Still no calls back. My friends are lame. I never realized how much better sledding is with human interaction. In that sense it's like the opposite of using a bathroom. After learning my lesson at hill No. 1, I steer away from conversations. No chatter, just pure hill riding. (Note: This is even creepier than before -- now I'm the antisocial grown-up solo-sledder guy.) Whatever. Time to move again.
 Heading back west, I get two calls back. On the phone I emphasize that I have Millennium Falcon pool floats. Two friends are on their way up. Excellent. 
 Five minutes later, I come to the Bethesda Fountain, where I find a crowd of people watching one man ride his large tube down the stairs. He is the star of this makeshift slope -- at least until now. When I arrive, he looks up at me and my tube and says simply, ''This is awesome.'' I agree. We both run to the top of the stairs.
 A flat landing in the middle of stairs provides a jump of sorts. The possibilities excite me. He goes first and almost gets air. Now I go. And I most definitely get air. When I get to the bottom: applause. These people are clapping. They get me. My new best friend and I grab our tubes for another run. At the top of the hill a kid says to me, ''You got air.'' I say, ''I know.'' (Subtext: ''No, you can't try my pool float.'') This time I decide that I need a running start. I make the people behind me move to create a clearing. I also decide to go headfirst. 
 The crowd parts. Music: check. Goggles: check. Attitude: check, check. I dive onto the stairs. Immediately, I realize that I've made a grave miscalculation. In an instant I am airborne. But this kind of air doesn't feel good. My legs rotate upward. My face downward. The tube deserts me. Uh, oh.
 In the various experiences of my life up to then, I had never actually landed on my face. It wasn't even on my radar of things to watch out for. I remember hearing a cracking noise and the music in my ears suddenly stopping. It was as if I knocked over a D.J. booth with my face -- if the booth were made of ice. A moment later I was prostrate on the stairs. My hat was somewhere near the Great Lawn. My goggles were cracked. A lady retrieved my headphones. Also broken. Two people helped me to my feet. One thing life has taught me is that when strangers help you, something is definitely wrong. One man said, ''You should be careful.'' I wasn't sure if I had broken my face or what. I walked away, still reeling, numb and kind of scared.
 When my friends finally arrived, I told them about my near-seriously-hurt experience. The red marks on the right side of my face corroborated my story. I gave them the spaceships and just sat for a while, happy that my neck managed not to break and psyched that I got air. Man, I love snow days.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Shout)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINTER SPORTS (90%); FAMILY (87%); CITY LIFE (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); WEATHER (73%); TRAINS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%) Sleds; Snow and Snowstorms

PERSON: Demetri Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



10 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 7110 words

HEADLINE: The Case For Contamination

BYLINE: By Kwame Anthony Appiah. 
Kwame Anthony Appiah, a philosopher, teaches at Princeton University. This essay is adapted from ''Cosmopolitanism: Ethics in a World of Strangers,'' to be published later this month by W.W. Norton.

 BODY:
1. I'm seated, with my mother, on a palace veranda, cooled by a breeze from the royal garden. Before us, on a dais, is an empty throne, its arms and legs embossed with polished brass, the back and seat covered in black-and-gold silk. In front of the steps to the dais, there are two columns of people, mostly men, facing one another, seated on carved wooden stools, the cloths they wear wrapped around their chests, leaving their shoulders bare. There is a quiet buzz of conversation. Outside in the garden, peacocks screech. At last, the blowing of a ram's horn announces the arrival of the king of Asante, its tones sounding his honorific, kotokohene, ''porcupine chief.'' (Each quill of the porcupine, according to custom, signifies a warrior ready to kill and to die for the kingdom.) Everyone stands until the king has settled on the throne. Then, when we sit, a chorus sings songs in praise of him, which are interspersed with the playing of a flute. It is a Wednesday festival day in Kumasi, the town in Ghana where I grew up. 
Unless you're one of a few million Ghanaians, this will probably seem a relatively unfamiliar world, perhaps even an exotic one. You might suppose that this Wednesday festival belongs quaintly to an African past. But before the king arrived, people were taking calls on cellphones, and among those passing the time in quiet conversation were a dozen men in suits, representatives of an insurance company. And the meetings in the office next to the veranda are about contemporary issues: H.I.V./AIDS, the educational needs of 21st-century children, the teaching of science and technology at the local university. When my turn comes to be formally presented, the king asks me about Princeton, where I teach. I ask him when he'll next be in the States. In a few weeks, he says cheerfully. He's got a meeting with the head of the World Bank.
 Anywhere you travel in the world -- today as always -- you can find ceremonies like these, many of them rooted in centuries-old traditions. But you will also find everywhere -- and this is something new -- many intimate connections with places far away: Washington, Moscow, Mexico City, Beijing. Across the street from us, when we were growing up, there was a large house occupied by a number of families, among them a vast family of boys; one, about my age, was a good friend. He lives in London. His brother lives in Japan, where his wife is from. They have another brother who has been in Spain for a while and a couple more brothers who, last I heard, were in the United States. Some of them still live in Kumasi, one or two in Accra, Ghana's capital. Eddie, who lives in Japan, speaks his wife's language now. He has to. But he was never very comfortable in English, the language of our government and our schools. When he phones me from time to time, he prefers to speak Asante-Twi. 
 Over the years, the royal palace buildings in Kumasi have expanded. When I was a child, we used to visit the previous king, my great-uncle by marriage, in a small building that the British had allowed his predecessor to build when he returned from exile in the Seychelles to a restored but diminished Asante kingship. That building is now a museum, dwarfed by the enormous house next door -- built by his successor, my uncle by marriage -- where the current king lives. Next to it is the suite of offices abutting the veranda where we were sitting, recently finished by the present king, my uncle's successor. The British, my mother's people, conquered Asante at the turn of the 20th century; now, at the turn of the 21st, the palace feels as it must have felt in the 19th century: a center of power. The president of Ghana comes from this world, too. He was born across the street from the palace to a member of the royal Oyoko clan. But he belongs to other worlds as well: he went to Oxford University; he's a member of one of the Inns of Court in London; he's a Catholic, with a picture of himself greeting the pope in his sitting room.
 What are we to make of this? On Kumasi's Wednesday festival day, I've seen visitors from England and the United States wince at what they regard as the intrusion of modernity on timeless, traditional rituals -- more evidence, they think, of a pressure in the modern world toward uniformity. They react like the assistant on the film set who's supposed to check that the extras in a sword-and-sandals movie aren't wearing wristwatches. And such purists are not alone. In the past couple of years, Unesco's members have spent a great deal of time trying to hammer out a convention on the ''protection and promotion'' of cultural diversity. (It was finally approved at the Unesco General Conference in October 2005.) The drafters worried that ''the processes of globalization. . .represent a challenge for cultural diversity, namely in view of risks of imbalances between rich and poor countries.'' The fear is that the values and images of Western mass culture, like some invasive weed, are threatening to choke out the world's native flora.
 The contradictions in this argument aren't hard to find. This same Unesco document is careful to affirm the importance of the free flow of ideas, the freedom of thought and expression and human rights -- values that, we know, will become universal only if we make them so. What's really important, then, cultures or people? In a world where Kumasi and New York -- and Cairo and Leeds and Istanbul -- are being drawn ever closer together, an ethics of globalization has proved elusive. 
 The right approach, I think, starts by taking individuals -- not nations, tribes or ''peoples'' -- as the proper object of moral concern. It doesn't much matter what we call such a creed, but in homage to Diogenes, the fourth-century Greek Cynic and the first philosopher to call himself a ''citizen of the world,'' we could call it cosmopolitan. Cosmopolitans take cultural difference seriously, because they take the choices individual people make seriously. But because cultural difference is not the only thing that concerns them, they suspect that many of globalization's cultural critics are aiming at the wrong targets.
 Yes, globalization can produce homogeneity. But globalization is also a threat to homogeneity. You can see this as clearly in Kumasi as anywhere. One thing Kumasi isn't -- simply because it's a city -- is homogeneous. English, German, Chinese, Syrian, Lebanese, Burkinabe, Ivorian,
 Nigerian, Indian: I can find you families of each description. I can find you Asante people, whose ancestors have lived in this town for centuries, but also Hausa households that have been around for centuries, too. There are people there from every region of the country as well, speaking scores of languages. But if you travel just a little way outside Kumasi -- 20 miles, say, in the right direction -- and if you drive off the main road down one of the many potholed side roads of red laterite, you won't have difficulty finding villages that are fairly monocultural. The people have mostly been to Kumasi and seen the big, polyglot, diverse world of the city. Where they live, though, there is one everyday language (aside from the English in the government schools) and an agrarian way of life based on some old crops, like yams, and some newer ones, like cocoa, which arrived in the late 19th century as a product for export. They may or may not have electricity. (This close to Kumasi, they probably do.) When people talk of the homogeneity produced by globalization, what they are talking about is this: Even here, the villagers will have radios (though the language will be local); you will be able to get a discussion going about Ronaldo, Mike Tyson or Tupac; and you will probably be able to find a bottle of Guinness or Coca-Cola (as well as of Star or Club, Ghana's own fine lagers). But has access to these things made the place more homogeneous or less? And what can you tell about people's souls from the fact that they drink Coca-Cola?
 It's true that the enclaves of homogeneity you find these days -- in Asante as in Pennsylvania -- are less distinctive than they were a century ago, but mostly in good ways. More of them have access to effective medicines. More of them have access to clean drinking water, and more of them have schools. Where, as is still too common, they don't have these things, it's something not to celebrate but to deplore. And whatever loss of difference there has been, they are constantly inventing new forms of difference: new hairstyles, new slang, even, from time to time, new religions. No one could say that the world's villages are becoming anything like the same.
 So why do people in these places sometimes feel that their identities are threatened? Because the world, their world, is changing, and some of them don't like it. The pull of the global economy -- witness those cocoa trees, whose chocolate is eaten all around the world -- created some of the life they now live. If chocolate prices were to collapse again, as they did in the early 1990's, Asante farmers might have to find new crops or new forms of livelihood. That prospect is unsettling for some people (just as it is exciting for others). Missionaries came awhile ago, so many of these villagers will be Christian, even if they have also kept some of the rites from earlier days. But new Pentecostal messengers are challenging the churches they know and condemning the old rites as idolatrous. Again, some like it; some don't.
 Above all, relationships are changing. When my father was young, a man in a village would farm some land that a chief had granted him, and his maternal clan (including his younger brothers) would work it with him. When a new house needed building, he would organize it. He would also make sure his dependents were fed and clothed, the children educated, marriages and funerals arranged and paid for. He could expect to pass the farm and the responsibilities along to the next generation.
 Nowadays, everything is different. Cocoa prices have not kept pace with the cost of living. Gas prices have made the transportation of the crop more expensive. And there are new possibilities for the young in the towns, in other parts of the country and in other parts of the world. Once, perhaps, you could have commanded the young ones to stay. Now they have the right to leave -- perhaps to seek work at one of the new data-processing centers down south in the nation's capital -- and, anyway, you may not make enough to feed and clothe and educate them all. So the time of the successful farming family is passing, and those who were settled in that way of life are as sad to see it go as American family farmers are whose lands are accumulated by giant agribusinesses. We can sympathize with them. But we cannot force their children to stay in the name of protecting their authentic culture, and we cannot afford to subsidize indefinitely thousands of distinct islands of homogeneity that no longer make economic sense.
 Nor should we want to. Human variety matters, cosmopolitans think, because people are entitled to options. What John Stuart Mill said more than a century ago in ''On Liberty'' about diversity within a society serves just as well as an argument for variety across the globe: ''If it were only that people have diversities of taste, that is reason enough for not attempting to shape them all after one model. But different persons also require different conditions for their spiritual development; and can no more exist healthily in the same moral, than all the variety of plants can exist in the same physical, atmosphere and climate. The same things which are helps to one person towards the cultivation of his higher nature, are hindrances to another.. . .Unless there is a corresponding diversity in their modes of life, they neither obtain their fair share of happiness, nor grow up to the mental, moral, and aesthetic stature of which their nature is capable.'' If we want to preserve a wide range of human conditions because it allows free people the best chance to make their own lives, we can't enforce diversity by trapping people within differences they long to escape.

2. Even if you grant that people shouldn't be compelled to sustain the older cultural practices, you might suppose that cosmopolitans should side with those who are busy around the world ''preserving culture'' and resisting ''cultural imperialism.'' Yet behind these slogans you often find some curious assumptions. Take ''preserving culture.'' It's one thing to help people sustain arts they want to sustain. I am all for festivals of Welsh bards in Llandudno financed by the Welsh arts council. Long live the Ghana National Cultural Center in Kumasi, where you can go and learn traditional Akan dancing and drumming, especially since its classes are spirited and overflowing. Restore the deteriorating film stock of early Hollywood movies; continue the preservation of Old Norse and early Chinese and Ethiopian manuscripts; record, transcribe and analyze the oral narratives of Malay and Masai and Maori. All these are undeniably valuable.
 But preserving culture -- in the sense of such cultural artifacts -- is different from preserving cultures. And the cultural preservationists often pursue the latter, trying to ensure that the Huli of Papua New Guinea (or even Sikhs in Toronto) maintain their ''authentic'' ways. What makes a cultural expression authentic, though? Are we to stop the importation of baseball caps into Vietnam so that the Zao will continue to wear their colorful red headdresses? Why not ask the Zao? Shouldn't the choice be theirs?
 ''They have no real choice,'' the cultural preservationists say. ''We've dumped cheap Western clothes into their markets, and they can no longer afford the silk they used to wear. If they had what they really wanted, they'd still be dressed traditionally.'' But this is no longer an argument about authenticity. The claim is that they can't afford to do something that they'd really like to do, something that is expressive of an identity they care about and want to sustain. This is a genuine problem, one that afflicts people in many communities: they're too poor to live the life they want to lead. But if they do get richer, and they still run around in T-shirts, that's their choice. Talk of authenticity now just amounts to telling other people what they ought to value in their own traditions.
 Not that this is likely to be a problem in the real world. People who can afford it mostly like to put on traditional garb -- at least from time to time. I was best man once at a Scottish wedding at which the bridegroom wore a kilt and I wore kente cloth. Andrew Oransay, the islander who piped us up the aisle, whispered in my ear at one point, ''Here we all are then, in our tribal gear.'' In Kumasi, people who can afford them love to put on their kente cloths, especially the most ''traditional'' ones, woven in colorful silk strips in the town of Bonwire, as they have been for a couple of centuries. (The prices are high in part because demand outside Asante has risen. A fine kente for a man now costs more than the average Ghanaian earns in a year. Is that bad? Not for the people of Bonwire.)
 Besides, trying to find some primordially authentic culture can be like peeling an onion. The textiles most people think of as traditional West African cloths are known as Java prints; they arrived in the 19th century with the Javanese batiks sold, and often milled, by the Dutch. The traditional garb of Herero women in Namibia derives from the attire of 19th-century German missionaries, though it is still unmistakably Herero, not least because the fabrics used have a distinctly un-Lutheran range of colors. And so with our kente cloth: the silk was always imported, traded by Europeans, produced in Asia. This tradition was once an innovation. Should we reject it for that reason as untraditional? How far back must one go? Should we condemn the young men and women of the University of Science and Technology, a few miles outside Kumasi, who wear European-style gowns for graduation, lined with kente strips (as they do now at Howard and Morehouse, too)? Cultures are made of continuities and changes, and the identity of a society can survive through these changes. Societies without change aren't authentic; they're just dead. 

3. The preservationists often make their case by invoking the evil of ''cultural imperialism.'' Their underlying picture, in broad strokes, is this: There is a world system of capitalism. It has a center and a periphery. At the center -- in Europe and the United States -- is a set of multinational corporations. Some of these are in the media business. The products they sell around the world promote the creation of desires that can be fulfilled only by the purchase and use of their products. They do this explicitly through advertising, but more insidiously, they also do so through the messages implicit in movies and in television drama. Herbert Schiller, a leading critic of ''media-cultural imperialism,'' claimed that ''it is the imagery and cultural perspectives of the ruling sector in the center that shape and structure consciousness throughout the system at large.''
 That's the theory, anyway. But the evidence doesn't bear it out. Researchers have actually gone out into the world and explored the responses to the hit television series ''Dallas'' in Holland and among Israeli Arabs, Moroccan Jewish immigrants, kibbutzniks and new Russian immigrants to Israel. They have examined the actual content of the television media -- whose penetration of everyday life far exceeds that of film -- in Australia, Brazil, Canada, India and Mexico. They have looked at how American popular culture was taken up by the artists of Sophiatown, in South Africa. They have discussed ''Days of Our Lives'' and ''The Bold and the Beautiful'' with Zulu college students from traditional backgrounds.
 And one thing they've found is that how people respond to these cultural imports depends on their existing cultural context. When the media scholar Larry Strelitz spoke to students from KwaZulu-Natal, he found that they were anything but passive vessels. One of them, Sipho -- a self-described ''very, very strong Zulu man'' -- reported that he had drawn lessons from watching the American soap opera ''Days of Our Lives,'' ''especially relationship-wise.'' It fortified his view that ''if a guy can tell a woman that he loves her, she should be able to do the same.'' What's more, after watching the show, Sipho ''realized that I should be allowed to speak to my father. He should be my friend rather than just my father.'' It seems doubtful that that was the intended message of multinational capitalism's ruling sector.
 But Sipho's response also confirmed that cultural consumers are not dupes. They can adapt products to suit their own needs, and they can decide for themselves what they do and do not approve of. Here's Sipho again:
 ''In terms of our culture, a girl is expected to enter into relationships when she is about 20. In the Western culture, a girl can be exposed to a relationship as early as 15 or 16. That one we shouldn't adopt in our culture. Another thing we shouldn't adopt from the Western culture has to do with the way they treat elderly people. I wouldn't like my family to be sent into an old-age home.''
 It wouldn't matter whether the ''old-age homes'' in American soap operas were safe places, full of kindly people. That wouldn't sell the idea to Sipho. Dutch viewers of ''Dallas'' saw not the pleasures of conspicuous consumption among the superrich -- the message that theorists of ''cultural imperialism'' find in every episode -- but a reminder that money and power don't protect you from tragedy. Israeli Arabs saw a program that confirmed that women abused by their husbands should return to their fathers. Mexican telenovelas remind Ghanaian women that, where sex is at issue, men are not to be trusted. If the telenovelas tried to tell them otherwise, they wouldn't believe it.
 Talk of cultural imperialism ''structuring the consciousnesses'' of those in the periphery treats people like Sipho as blank slates on which global capitalism's moving finger writes its message, leaving behind another cultural automaton as it moves on. It is deeply condescending. And it isn't true.
 In fact, one way that people sometimes respond to the onslaught of ideas from the West is to turn them against their originators. It's no accident that the West's fiercest adversaries among other societies tend to come from among the most Westernized of the group. Who in Ghana excoriated the British colonizers and built the movement for independence? Not the farmers and the peasants. Not the chiefs. It was the Western-educated bourgeoisie. And when Kwame Nkrumah -- who went to college in Pennsylvania and lived in London -- created a nationalist mass movement, at its core were soldiers who had returned from fighting a war in the British Army, urban market women who traded Dutch prints, unionists who worked in industries created by colonialism and the so-called veranda boys, who had been to colonial schools, learned English and studied history and geography in textbooks written in England. Who led the resistance to the British Raj? An Indian-born South African lawyer, trained in the British courts, whose name was Gandhi; an Indian named Nehru, who wore Savile Row suits and sent his daughter to an English boarding school; and Muhammad Ali Jinnah, founder of Pakistan, who joined Lincoln's Inn in London and became a barrister at the age of 19. The independence movements of the postwar world that led to the end of Europe's African and Asian empires were driven by the rhetoric that had guided the Allies' own struggle against Germany and Japan: democracy, freedom, equality. This wasn't a conflict between values. It was a conflict of interests couched in terms of the same values.

4. Sometimes, though, people react to the incursions of the modern world not by appropriating the values espoused by the liberal democracies but by inverting them. One recent result has been a new worldwide fraternity that presents cosmopolitanism with something of a sinister mirror image. Indeed, you could think of its members as counter-cosmopolitans. They believe in human dignity across the nations, and they live their creed. They share these ideals with people in many countries, speaking many languages. As thoroughgoing globalists, they make full use of the World Wide Web. They resist the crass consumerism of modern Western society and deplore its influence in the rest of the world. But they also resist the temptations of the narrow nationalisms of the countries where they were born, along with the humble allegiances of kith and kin. They resist such humdrum loyalties because they get in the way of the one thing that matters: building a community of enlightened men and women across the world. That is one reason they reject traditional religious authorities (though they disapprove, too, of their obscurantism and temporizing). Sometimes they agonize in their discussions about whether they can reverse the world's evils or whether their struggle is hopeless. But mostly they soldier on in their efforts to make the world a better place.
 These are not the heirs of Diogenes the Cynic. The community these comrades are building is not a polis; it's what they call the ummah, the global community of Muslims, and it is open to all who share their faith. They are young, global Muslim fundamentalists. The ummah's new globalists consider that they have returned to the fundamentals of Islam; much of what passes for Islam in the world, much of what has passed as Islam for centuries, they think a sham. As the French scholar Olivier Roy has observed, these religionists -- his term for them is ''neofundamentalists'' -- wish to cleanse Islam's pristine and universal message from the contingencies of mere history, of local cultures. For them, Roy notes, ''globalization is a good opportunity to dissociate Islam from any given culture and to provide a model that could work beyond any culture.'' They have taken a set of doctrines that once came with a form of life, in other words, and thrown away that form of life.
 Now, the vast majority of these fundamentalists are not going to blow anybody up. So they should not be confused with those other Muslims --the ''radical neofundamentalists,'' Roy calls them -- who want to turn jihad, interpreted as literal warfare against the West, into the sixth pillar of Islam. Whether to endorse the use of violence is a political decision, even if it is to be justified in religious terms. Nonetheless, the neofundamentalists present a classic challenge to cosmopolitanism, because they, too, offer a moral and, in its way, inclusive universalism.
 Unlike cosmopolitanism, of course, it is universalist without being tolerant, and such intolerant universalism has often led to murder. It underlay the French Wars of Religion that bloodied the four decades before the Edict of Nantes of 1598, in which Henri IV of France finally granted to the Protestants in his realm the right to practice their faith. In the Thirty Years' War, which ravaged central Europe until 1648 and the Peace of Westphalia, Protestant and Catholic princes from Austria to Sweden struggled with one another, and hundreds of thousands of Germans died in battle. Millions starved or died of disease as roaming armies pillaged the countryside. The period of religious conflict in the British Isles, from the first Bishops' War of 1639 to the end of the English Civil War in 1651, which pitted Protestant armies against the forces of a Catholic king, resulted in the deaths of perhaps 10 percent of the population. All these conflicts involved issues beyond sectarian doctrine, of course. Still, many Enlightenment liberals drew the conclusion that enforcing one vision of universal truth could only lead the world back to the blood baths.
 Yet tolerance by itself is not what distinguishes the cosmopolitan from the neofundamentalist. There are plenty of things that the heroes of radical Islam are happy to tolerate. They don't care if you eat kebabs or meatballs or kung pao chicken, as long as the meat is halal; your hijab can be silk or linen or viscose. At the same time, there are plenty of things that cosmopolitans will not tolerate. We will sometimes want to intervene in other places because what is going on there violates our principles so deeply. We, too, can see moral error. And when it is serious enough -- genocide is the least-controversial case -- we will not stop with conversation. Toleration has its limits. 
 Nor can you tell us apart by saying that the neofundamentalists believe in universal truth. Cosmopolitans believe in universal truth, too, though we are less certain that we already have all of it. It is not skepticism about the very idea of truth that guides us; it is realism about how hard the truth is to find. One tenet we hold to, however, is that every human being has obligations to every other. Everybody matters: that is our central idea. And again, it sharply limits the scope of our tolerance.
 To say what, in principle, distinguishes the cosmopolitan from competing universalisms, we plainly need to go beyond talk of truth and tolerance. One distinctively cosmopolitan commitment is to pluralism. Cosmopolitans think that there are many values worth living by and that you cannot live by all of them. So we hope and expect that different people and different societies will embody different values. Another aspect of cosmopolitanism is what philosophers call fallibilism -- the sense that our knowledge is imperfect, provisional, subject to revision in the face of new evidence.
 The neofundamentalist conception of a global ummah, by contrast, admits of local variations -- but only in matters that don't matter. These counter-cosmopolitans, like many Christian fundamentalists, do think that there is one right way for all human beings to live; that all the differences must be in the details. If what concerns you is global homogeneity, then this utopia, not the world that capitalism is producing, is the one you should worry about. Still, the universalisms in the name of religion are hardly the only ones that invert the cosmopolitan creed. In the name of universal humanity, you can be the kind of Marxist, like Mao or Pol Pot, who wants to eradicate all religion, just as easily as you can be the Grand Inquisitor supervising an auto-da-fe. All of these men want everyone on their side, so we can share with them the vision in their mirror. ''Indeed, I'm a trustworthy adviser to you,'' Osama bin Laden said in a 2002 ''message to the American people.'' ''I invite you to the happiness of this world and the hereafter and to escape your dry, miserable, materialistic life that is without soul. I invite you to Islam, that calls to follow of the path of Allah alone Who has no partners, the path which calls for justice and forbids oppression and crimes.'' Join us, the counter-cosmopolitans say, and we will all be sisters and brothers. But each of them plans to trample on our differences -- to trample us to death, if necessary -- if we will not join them. Their motto might as well be the sardonic German saying Und willst du nicht mein Bruder sein, So schlag' ich Dir den Schadel ein. (If you don't want to be my brother, then I'll smash your skull in.)
 That liberal pluralists are hostile to certain authoritarian ways of life -- that they're intolerant of radical intolerance -- is sometimes seen as kind of self-refutation. That's a mistake: you can care about individual freedom and still understand that the contours of that freedom will vary considerably from place to place. But we might as well admit that a concern for individual freedom isn't something that will appeal to every individual. In politics, including cultural politics, there are winners and losers -- which is worth remembering when we think about international human rights treaties. When we seek to embody our concern for strangers in human rights law, and when we urge our government to enforce it, we are seeking to change the world of law in every nation on the planet. We have declared slavery a violation of international law. And, in so doing, we have committed ourselves, at a minimum, to the desirability of its eradication everywhere. This is no longer controversial in the capitals of the world. No one defends enslavement. But international treaties define slavery in ways that arguably include debt bondage, and debt bondage is a significant economic institution in parts of South Asia. I hold no brief for debt bondage. Still, we shouldn't be surprised if people whose incomes and style of life depend upon it are angry.
 It's the same with the international movements to promote women's equality. We know that many Islamists are deeply disturbed by the way Western men and women behave. We permit women to swim almost naked with strange men, which is our business, but it is hard to keep the news of these acts of immodesty from Muslim women and children or to protect Muslim men from the temptations they inevitably create. As the Internet extends its reach, it will get even harder, and their children, especially their girls, will be tempted to ask for these freedoms, too. Worse, they say, we are now trying to force our conception of how women and men should behave upon them. We speak of women's rights. We make treaties enshrining these rights. And then we want their governments to enforce them.
 Like many people in every nation, I support those treaties; I believe that women, like men, should have the vote, should be entitled to work outside their homes, should be protected from the physical abuse of men, including their fathers, brothers and husbands. But I also know that the changes these freedoms would bring will change the balance of power between men and women in everyday life. How do I know this? Because I have lived most of my adult life in the West as it has gone through just such a transition, and I know that the process is not yet complete.
 So liberty and diversity may well be at odds, and the tensions between them aren't always easily resolved. But the rhetoric of cultural preservation isn't any help. Again, the contradictions are near to hand. Take another look at that Unesco Convention. It affirms the ''principle of equal dignity of and respect for all cultures.'' (What, all cultures -- including those of the K.K.K. and the Taliban?) It also affirms ''the importance of culture for social cohesion in general, and in particular its potential for the enhancement of the status and role of women in society.'' (But doesn't ''cohesion'' argue for uniformity? And wouldn't enhancing the status and role of women involve changing, rather than preserving, cultures?) In Saudi Arabia, people can watch ''Will and Grace'' on satellite TV -- officially proscribed, but available all the same -- knowing that, under Saudi law, Will could be beheaded in a public square. In northern Nigeria, mullahs inveigh against polio vaccination while sentencing adulteresses to death by stoning. In India, thousands of wives are burned to death each year for failing to make their dowry payments. Vive la difference? Please.

5. Living cultures do not, in any case, evolve from purity into contamination; change is more a gradual transformation from one mixture to a new mixture, a process that usually takes place at some distance from rules and rulers, in the conversations that occur across cultural boundaries. Such conversations are not so much about arguments and values as about the exchange of perspectives. I don't say that we can't change minds, but the reasons we offer in our conversation will seldom do much to persuade others who do not share our fundamental evaluative judgments already. When we make judgments, after all, it's rarely because we have applied well-thought-out principles to a set of facts and deduced an answer. Our efforts to justify what we have done -- or what we plan to do -- are typically made up after the event, rationalizations of what we have decided intuitively to do. And a good deal of what we intuitively take to be right, we take to be right just because it is what we are used to. That does not mean, however, that we cannot become accustomed to doing things differently.
 Consider the practice of foot-binding in China, which persisted for a thousand years -- and was largely eradicated within a generation. The anti-foot-binding campaign, in the 1910's and 1920's, did circulate facts about the disadvantages of bound feet, but those couldn't have come as news to most people. Perhaps more effective was the campaign's emphasis that no other country went in for the practice; in the world at large, then, China was ''losing face'' because of it. (To China's cultural preservationists, of course, the fact that the practice was peculiar to the region was entirely a mark in its favor.) Natural-foot societies were formed, with members forswearing the practice and further pledging that their sons would not marry women with bound feet. As the movement took hold, scorn was heaped on older women with bound feet, and they were forced to endure the agonies of unbinding. What had been beautiful became ugly; ornamentation became disfigurement. The appeal to reason can explain neither the custom nor its abolition.
 So, too, with other social trends. Just a couple of generations ago, most people in most of the industrialized world thought that middle-class women would ideally be housewives and mothers. If they had time on their hands, they could engage in charitable work or entertain one another; a few of them might engage in the arts, writing novels, painting, performing in music, theater and dance. But there was little place for them in the ''learned professions'' -- as lawyers or doctors, priests or rabbis; and if they were to be academics, they would teach young women and probably remain unmarried. They were not likely to make their way in politics, except perhaps at the local level. And they were not made welcome in science.
 How much of the shift away from these assumptions is a result of arguments? Isn't a significant part of it just the consequence of our getting used to new ways of doing things? The arguments that kept the old pattern in place were not -- to put it mildly -- terribly good. If the reasons for the old sexist way of doing things had been the problem, the women's movement could have been done in a couple of weeks.
 Consider another example: In much of Europe and North America, in places where a generation ago homosexuals were social outcasts and homosexual acts were illegal, lesbian and gay couples are increasingly being recognized by their families, by society and by the law. This is true despite the continued opposition of major religious groups and a significant and persisting undercurrent of social disapproval. Both sides make arguments, some good, most bad. But if you ask the social scientists what has produced this change, they will rightly not start with a story about reasons. They will give you a historical account that concludes with a sort of perspectival shift. The increasing presence of ''openly gay'' people in social life and in the media has changed our habits. And over the last 30 years or so, instead of thinking about the private activity of gay sex, many Americans and Europeans started thinking about the public category of gay people. 
 One of the great savants of the postwar era, John von Neumann, liked to say, mischievously, that ''in mathematics you don't understand things, you just get used to them.'' As in mathematical arguments, so in moral ones. Now, I don't deny that all the time, at every stage, people were talking, giving one another reasons to do things: accept their children, stop treating homosexuality as a medical disorder, disagree with their churches, come out. Still, the short version of the story is basically this: People got used to lesbians and gay men. I am urging that we should learn about people in other places, take an interest in their civilizations, their arguments, their errors, their achievements, not because that will bring us to agreement but because it will help us get used to one another -- something we have a powerful need to do in this globalized era. If that is the aim, then the fact that we have all these opportunities for disagreement about values need not put us off. Understanding one another may be hard; it can certainly be interesting. But it doesn't require that we come to agreement.

6. The ideals of purity and preservation have licensed a great deal of mischief in the past century, but they have never had much to do with lived culture. Ours may be an era of mass migration, but the global spread and hybridization of culture -- through travel, trade or conquest -- is hardly a recent development. Alexander's empire molded both the states and the sculpture of Egypt and North India; the Mongols and then the Mughals shaped great swaths of Asia; the Bantu migrations populated half the African continent. Islamic states stretch from Morocco to Indonesia; Christianity reached Africa, Europe and Asia within a few centuries of the death of Jesus of Nazareth; Buddhism long ago migrated from India into much of East and Southeast Asia. Jews and people whose ancestors came from many parts of China have long lived in vast diasporas. The traders of the Silk Road changed the style of elite dress in Italy; someone buried Chinese pottery in 15th-century Swahili graves. I have heard it said that the bagpipes started out in Egypt and came to Scotland with the Roman infantry. None of this is modern.
 Our guide to what is going on here might as well be a former African slave named Publius Terentius Afer, whom we know as Terence. Terence, born in Carthage, was taken to Rome in the early second century B.C., and his plays -- witty, elegant works that are, with Plautus's earlier, less-cultivated works, essentially all we have of Roman comedy -- were widely admired among the city's literary elite. Terence's own mode of writing -- which involved freely incorporating any number of earlier Greek plays into a single Latin one -- was known to Roman litterateurs as ''contamination.'' 
 It's an evocative term. When people speak for an ideal of cultural purity, sustaining the authentic culture of the Asante or the American family farm, I find myself drawn to contamination as the name for a counterideal. Terence had a notably firm grasp on the range of human variety: ''So many men, so many opinions'' was a line of his. And it's in his comedy ''The Self-Tormentor'' that you'll find what may be the golden rule of cosmopolitanism -- Homo sum: humani nil a me alienum puto; ''I am human: nothing human is alien to me.'' The context is illuminating. A busybody farmer named Chremes is told by his neighbor to mind his own affairs; the homo sum credo is Chremes's breezy rejoinder. It isn't meant to be an ordinance from on high; it's just the case for gossip. Then again, gossip -- the fascination people have for the small doings of other people -- has been a powerful force for conversation among cultures.
 The ideal of contamination has few exponents more eloquent than Salman Rushdie, who has insisted that the novel that occasioned his fatwa ''celebrates hybridity, impurity, intermingling, the transformation that comes of new and unexpected combinations of human beings, cultures, ideas, politics, movies, songs. It rejoices in mongrelisation and fears the absolutism of the Pure. Melange, hotch-potch, a bit of this and a bit of that is how newness enters the world.'' No doubt there can be an easy and spurious utopianism of ''mixture,'' as there is of ''purity'' or ''authenticity.'' And yet the larger human truth is on the side of contamination -- that endless process of imitation and revision.
 A tenable global ethics has to temper a respect for difference with a respect for the freedom of actual human beings to make their own choices. That's why cosmopolitans don't insist that everyone become cosmopolitan. They know they don't have all the answers. They're humble enough to think that they might learn from strangers; not too humble to think that strangers can't learn from them. Few remember what Chremes says after his ''I am human'' line, but it is equally suggestive: ''If you're right, I'll do what you do. If you're wrong, I'll set you straight.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An essay on Jan. 1 about the advantages of cosmopolitanism over enforced homogeneity in world cultures throughout history misstated the religion of a 17th-century English king. Charles I was a member of the Church of England, not a Catholic.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Connected In the Ghanaian cities of Accra, Cape Coast and Kumasi, cellphones are part of the culture. (Photographs by Lyle Ashton Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); FAMILY (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Social Conditions and Trends; Culture; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Kwame Anthony Appiah

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) GHANA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); JAPAN (78%); SPAIN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



11 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: A Weak Finish Ensures a Flat Year for the Dow

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
It's official: 2005 was essentially a wash, at least for blue-chip stocks. Spooked by high energy costs and cooling home prices, investors pushed down the Dow Jones industrial average on Friday, causing that gauge to end the year about six-tenths a percentage point lower than where it started. 
 Sales of previously owned homes fell 1.7 percent in November, to an annual rate of 6.97 million. That is the slowest pace since March, according to the National Association of Realtors. Prices continued to rise, but economists say that is unlikely to continue as the slower rate of sales increases the number of homes on the market.
Crude oil for delivery next month rose back above $60 a barrel, or more than 40 percent higher than a comparable price at the beginning of 2005.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 165.77 points, or 1.52 percent, to close at 10,717.50. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 20.37 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 1,248.29; it gained 3 percent for the year. The Nasdaq composite index lost 44.1 points, or 1.96 percent, to close at 2,205.32; it rose 1.4 percent in 2005.
 In the bond market, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.39 percent from 4.38 percent the previous week. MARK A. STEIN


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Luby'sNYSE: LUBThe cafeteria-style restaurant operator swung to a first-quarter profit on increased traffic at some restaurants and on catering events related to hurricane-relief efforts in Texas. The company said its sales rose 6.9 percent.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $13.30WEEK'S CHANGE: +9.02%EST. '05 P/E: 17.50Hilton HotelsNYSE: HLTThe hotel and resort chain agreed to acquire the lodging properties of Britain's Hilton Group for $5.7 billion. Hilton Hotels would thereby regain control of the international unit it sold in 1964.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $24.11WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.68%EST. '05 P/E: 28.84AlkermesNNM: ALKSThe drug maker said the Food and Drug Administration had granted conditional approval for using its drug Vivitrol to treat alcoholism in adults, as long as it was prescribed with counseling.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $19.12WEEK'S CHANGE: +5.11%EST. '05 P/E: --ExpressJetNYSE: XJTContinental Airlines said it would cut by 69 the number of planes that ExpressJet, a regional carrier, will operate for it. Continental is soliciting offers from other carriers to try to get a lower price.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $8.09WEEK'S CHANGE: -24.81%EST. '05 P/E: 4.87Overstock.comNNM: OSTKThe online discount retailer warned that its full-year earnings results would probably come in lower than expected. The company's chief executive, Patrick M. Byrne, cited a disappointing holiday season.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $28.15WEEK'S CHANGE: -16.32%EST. '05 P/E: --GuidantNYSE: GDTThe Food and Drug Administration said in a letter that the heart device maker had not fully responded to its concerns about manufacturing procedures at the company's biggest plant, which is in St. Paul.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $64.75WEEK'S CHANGE: -3.33%EST. '05 P/E: 32.36Lifeway FoodsNNM: LWAYThe maker of a yogurtlike beverage called kefir and other dairy products said that it would begin selling two-packs of the drink at certain Costco Wholesale stores in the Midwest as a marketing test.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $12.44WEEK'S CHANGE: +16.33%EST. '05 P/E: 46.07CelgeneNNM: CELGThe company's Revlimid capsule was approved by the federal government for treating a rare blood cancer. The medicine will cost pharmacies $215 to $225 a pill.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $64.80WEEK'S CHANGE: +10.58%EST. '05 P/E: 159.21(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BONDS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%) Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%)

PERSON: Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



12 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: THE GOODS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Orange Juice in Its Original Carton

BYLINE: By BRENDAN I. KOERNER

 BODY:
THE United States is hardly alone in having a surfeit of overly chubby children. The World Health Organization estimates that a tenth of children ages 5 to 17 worldwide are overweight, and that 30 million to 45 million qualify as obese. 
 The situation is particularly dire in Scotland, where the popularity of deep-fried foods -- from fish to pizza -- has helped to balloon more than a third of 12-year-olds beyond their recommended weights; in the United States, the overweight rate is about 30 percent. 
Economists deplore the worldwide trend toward plumper children, warning of higher health care costs and reduced worker productivity. But the trend also provides an opportunity for entrepreneurs like Tamas Nyisztor, a co-inventor of the Juiceator, a strawlike contraption that allows a user to suck the juice directly from an intact orange or grapefruit. 
 ''The government has scared the hell out of people here about childhood obesity,'' said Mr. Nyisztor, who lives in London. ''I thought we could definitely help combat it, if I came up with a good design.''
 Mr. Nyisztor and his business partner, Sarah Barnard, first brainstormed the idea for the Juiceator in October 2004, while sharing a bottle of wine and lamenting the increasing girth of schoolchildren. Trying to think of alternative snacks to potato chips and soda pops, the pair recalled eating orange wedges in their younger years -- a healthy choice, to be sure, but one that requires arduous peeling. What if that gustatory experience could be enjoyed, Mr. Nyisztor and Ms. Barnard wondered, without removing the fruit's skin?
 Mr. Nyisztor, who previously worked at a product-design firm in London, quickly sketched out some ideas at a local cafe. He got a piece of plastic tubing from a hardware store and glued it to a ballpoint pen casing; the nib was used to puncture the fruit's flesh, allowing the tube to be inserted and the juice siphoned upward.
 This prototype proved the concept's feasibility, but its faults were obvious: without any kind of filtration, the tube would soon become clogged with pulp. Mr. Nyisztor tweaked the design so that the straw was encased in a perforated polypropylene tube. Seeds and bits of citrus have a tricky time passing through the tube's holes, decreasing the likelihood that they will obstruct the interior straw. 
 The perforated tube also replaced the pen as the Juiceator's cutting tool. The tube's ends are sharp enough to puncture citrus skin; a few twists of the device remove a nickel-sized hunk of peel, creating a point of entry for the Juiceator.
 When the product was almost ready for market last spring, Mr. Nyisztor noticed a crucial problem: it was far too silent. ''I thought to myself, 'There's no fun in it because there's no noise,' '' he said. ''I wanted an audio effect -- there should be an occasional slurping sound.'' So Mr. Nyisztor instructed his Chinese manufacturer to increase the aperture of the straw holes by about a millimeter, which added a sonic dimension.
 Mr. Nyisztor and Ms. Barnard started selling the Juiceator, priced at $:3 (about $5.15), in March, setting up booths at health food expos. They soon attracted the interest of Tesco, a British supermarket chain that would stock the product, as well as Paul O'Grady, a television personality who would feature it on his show (which Mr. Nyisztor described as ''a late-afternoon housewife kind of thing''). 
 Overseas sales from the company's Web site, juiceator.org.uk, have been relatively sparse, though Mr. Nyisztor still hopes to crack the American soccer-mom market. Of course, it's not soccer-playing children who threaten to burden the American economy; it's the children who rarely leave the couch and think orange is just a Kool-Aid flavor.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Juiceator presses into oranges and grapefruits and filters out the pulp. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (91%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (91%); OBESITY (90%); TRENDS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); SNACK FOODS (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); SOFT DRINKS (65%); POLYPROPYLENE (62%) Juices; Oranges; Grapefruit; Citrus Fruits

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: Tamas Nyisztor; Sarah Barnard; Brendan I Koerner

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



13 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: ARMCHAIR M.B.A.; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Novel Thinking As a Survival Tactic

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN. 
William J. Holstein is editor in chief of Chief Executive magazine.

 BODY:
LARGE American companies, not just small start-ups, are capable of breakthrough innovations, says Vijay Govindarajan, professor of international business at Dartmouth. He is co-author, with Chris Trimble, of ''10 Rules for Strategic Innovators: From Idea to Execution,'' (Harvard Business School Press, 2005, $29.95). Here are excerpts from a conversation: 


Q. Why is the subject of innovation so hot these days?

A. In the 1990's, people were just rolling the dice and spending billions of dollars. It was reckless innovation. Post-9/11 and the dot-com bursting, people went back to cost-cutting. But now they also said, ''After Act I is over, we must create growth and innovation.'' This time, they're saying, ''We want to grow, but minimize risks and grow profitably.'' Innovation has come back with a different twist. It's very much on the agenda of chief executive officers. Without growth and innovation, organizations die.

Q. Is this fascination with innovation being driven by the emergence of new competitors from China and India?

A. The emergence of India and China has made innovation extremely critical. Together they are about $2 trillion in gross domestic product. That's only 5 percent of the world's G.D.P. But if these two economies grow at the rate at which the World Bank and Goldman Sachs predict, then tens of trillions of dollars worth of economic activity will be created in the next 25 years.

Q. Are larger companies a more important source of American innovation than smaller ones?

A. I would not say it is ''either'' or ''or.'' We need small start-ups to continue the innovation stream. But I believe that only large companies like General Electric can solve big, complex problems, which can make a huge difference to humanity.

Q. Which are the most innovative large companies today?

A. There is no perfect example. G.E., eBay, Johnson & Johnson and 3M come to mind. This is a topic that almost every company is concerned about. When you are a large, established, tradition-bound company, to fundamentally innovate, it's not in your genes. Fundamental innovation implies that you have to selectively forget some of the things you're doing well today. That's not so easy.

Q. You say that Apple is among the best innovators in the technology world. Which other companies belong on that list?

A. Motorola. They stumbled in the 90's and missed the boat on several things. But in the past three or four years, it has regained its dominant position. A third company is Google. Some people said it was just a fad and would disappear. But they have created a whole new space and continue to change the rules of the game.

Q. The largest 500 companies in the country have been net shedders of jobs. Shouldn't they be considered consolidators, not innovators?

A. Yes and no. It is true that if you look at Fortune 500 companies, many of them have focused on cost-cutting, re-engineering and restructuring, all of which means shedding jobs. It will be a real shame if companies go bankrupt because they just simply shed jobs. The question is, how do we stop it? They have a lot of capabilities. We as a country must help these companies to maintain an innovative spirit.

Q. Say I'm the chief executive of a major company. Is there a secret to achieving innovation in my company?

A. First, strategic innovation is critical for you. Don't ignore it. In addition to continuous process improvement, focus on strategic innovation. Secondly, coming up with a new idea is only the starting point. You need to pay attention to execution of the idea.

Q. What else do I need to do?

A. You must be able to forget some of the success formula by which you are succeeding today. By definition, that's irrelevant. Secondly, you must be able to borrow one or two of the core assets of your company and lend them to the new idea.

Q. What's the final part of the challenge?

A. The new venture must learn to resolve uncertainties. There are always questions about the size of the market, what the customer needs, what the technology solutions are -- these are always unknown. It's the person who resolves the uncertainties and learns the fastest who will win.

Q. Exactly who should manage the hot new idea?

A. You must hire an outsider to run the breakthrough idea because insiders are always wedded to orthodoxy and the inside success formula. You must also hire liberally from outside. Hiring from within kills breakthrough innovation. And the business should report to the C.E.O. even if it is very small. It must get the same organizational status as other business units or it is going to be suffocated.

Q. So would you say the chief executive has an important role in making breakthrough innovation possible?

A. A tremendously important role. I consider the C.E.O.'s role in the modern corporation to be building the capacity to continuously innovate in a breakthrough way. The C.E.O. doesn't create the strategy, but should be listening to the voices of people who are able to see the future. It is the role of the C.E.O. to spot and encourage them. Then, once an idea has promise, you must help build a separate organization around that person.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Reed)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCT INNOVATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); WRITERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); EXECUTIVES (52%) Science and Technology; United States Economy

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%); GOOGLE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (91%) Dartmouth College

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (63%); GS (NYSE) (54%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); MSI (NYSE) (51%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: Vijay (Prof) Govindarajan; William J Holstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (78%) INDIA (90%); CHINA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



14 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Don't Want to Leave the Hotel? Buy the Room

BYLINE: By JENNIFER ALSEVER

 BODY:
IMAGINE loving a hotel room so much that you buy it, mortgage and all.
 That is what Tony Garcia and an investment partner will do this month when they close on the sale of Room 309 at the Hotel Telluride in Telluride, Colo. The price is $279,000, complete with maid, concierge and room service.
The definition of a second home continues to stretch, as buyers increasingly invest in rooms in what are called condo hotels. Unlike traditional time shares, which give owners access to properties for defined periods, condo hotel units are fully owned and deeded properties that are rented by a hotel when the owner isn't using them. 
 At Hotel Telluride, Room 309 looks like any other upscale hotel room, with a king-sized bed with leather headboard and a bathroom with granite countertops. The room has also been renovated to include a kitchenette with microwave, sink and mini-refrigerator. 
 As part of the purchase, Mr. Garcia, a photographer in Los Angeles, or the investment partner, Justin Page, an architect in Phoenix, can use the room at any time -- up to a total of 60 days a year. During the remainder of the year, the hotel management can rent it out to guests for up to $395 a night. Mr. Garcia and Mr. Page get 40 percent of the revenue from room rentals; the hotel gets 60 percent. 
 Mr. Garcia acknowledges that he is paying a hefty price for one small room, but he says it's worth it.
 ''I love the town of Telluride, and there's nothing left really for that price, not a lot of new construction,'' said Mr. Garcia, 49. ''And I think people will enjoy coming for the amenities of the hotel. It's a popular hotel.'' 
 The condo hotel concept has been around for more than a decade, but chains like Marriott, Remington, Westin and W Hotels are promoting them more than ever as a way to raise cash for expansion without going to investors or banks. For hotels, construction costs have climbed and financing can be hard to get, primarily because the industry has yet to return to the kind of operating profits it registered before Sept. 11, 2001. 
 ''Condo hotels are an explosive part of the lodging industry,'' said James R. Butler Jr., who leads the global hospitality group at the law firm Jeffer, Mangels, Butler & Marmaro in Los Angeles. ''Baby boomers are looking for second homes. A lot of money has come out of the stock market and into condo hotels.'' 
 Up to 105 condo hotel projects are planned or under construction nationwide, and will eventually produce 29,042 hotel rooms for sale in vacation spots like Las Vegas and Miami and Orlando, Fla., according to Lodging Econometrics in Portsmouth, N.H., which tracks real estate deals in the hotel industry. Those units range from small, traditional hotel rooms like Mr. Garcia's to three-bedroom quarters that can be separated and rented out as separate rooms. 
 But are hotel rooms really a good buy? It's difficult to say. 
 The payoff can depend on factors like occupancy rates and the split of rental income. So a buyer must consider the location's popularity and growth potential as well as the hotel's general quality and reputation -- and have enough cash to cover expenses that could arise if the room is too often vacant.
 Owners typically get 30 percent to 60 percent of proceeds from room rentals. At Hotel Telluride, a $279,000 unit might cost an owner $16,570 in annual mortgage payments if he or she put down 20 percent on a 30-year loan at 6.3 percent interest. But that owner could realize $24,000 in rental income if he or she received a 40 percent share on a room that rents for $300 a night 200 days a year. That income must be reported for tax purposes. Any day an owner stays, there is one less day that rental income can be collected.
 What owners may gain in convenience in a condo hotel, however, they can give up in control. Individuals own the room, but the hotels typically wield most of the power. While some developers sell all the units to individuals, who as a group can then hire and fire management, a number of hotels do not give owners much say in operations, whether the concerns are poor food, shoddy service or ugly drapes. Nor do they always provide access to the resort's finances and overall occupancy rates. 
 ''That would stop me,'' said Jim Miller, an investment adviser in Columbiana, Ohio. ''That's like buying a stock where you're not allowed to see a chart of the last five years.''
 Hotel owners argue that they cannot deal with hundreds of owners telling them how to run their business. Yet to Mr. Miller, the condo hotel concept appears to carry the same risks as time shares did in the late 1980's, when some owners would ultimately lose their investments after a number of resorts fell into disrepair or went bankrupt. 
 For maintenance and services like utilities and cable television, some buyers may pay monthly homeowners' association fees. A typical fee may be $350 a month, though it can be lower or much higher. Other resorts take 1 or 2 percent of rental sales for a reserve account for upgrades, like new carpeting or bedding. 
 The money put into the reserve account cannot be deducted on income taxes until management actually spends the money on specific upgrades. Some hotels charge extra for daily housekeeping, for instance, or for breakfast in the hotel's restaurant when the owners are in residence.
 Some buyers have watched the value of their condo hotel units surge in recent years. Brian Greenberg bought his one-bedroom unit at the Watson's Regency Suites in Ocean City, N.J., for $112,000 in 1996. He estimates that it is now worth $400,000. But he did not buy it as an investment. Rather, the payoff is a summer home for his family.
 ''Ultimately, it costs me a couple of thousand dollars a year for having a property on the Jersey Shore,'' he said. ''The concept is nice. When I go there, the room is clean, and when I leave, they clean up after me.''
 That kind of appreciation in value is not guaranteed, because buyers may be getting in at the top of a housing bubble. Condo hotel units tend to sell at a premium, costing $250,000 to $3 million, depending on location and size, while their appreciation tends to stay equivalent to that of traditional condominiums, said Karen Johnson, a vice president in Los Angeles for Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels, a consulting firm. ''You won't get rich on condo hotels,'' she said.
 STILL, condo hotels have been popular for many companies, including Great Wolf Resorts in Madison, Wis. Great Wolf is to build its third resort, in Traverse City, Mich., with rooms at $369,000, after it sold out of similar units at two other hotels, in Blue Harbor, Mich., and in Wisconsin Dells, Wis., before they even opened. The resorts feature large indoor water parks.
 Rich Rosko of Lake Villa, Ill., will put his money on a unit in the Traverse City resort. He already owns property at the other two Great Wolf resorts, and at condo hotels in Myrtle Beach, S.C., and Lake Geneva, Wis. 
 ''I like the rental income,'' Mr. Rosko, 48, said. ''The management takes care of marketing, bringing in the customers. They take a credit card. With a rental house, you can get bad tenants who can destroy your house, or you can't get them out.''
 Mr. Rosko makes his living providing coffee supplies to corporate offices. But eventually, when he retires, he hopes to own a condo hotel unit in every major United States travel destination. ''My job when I retire is to go check each of them out,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 1 about condo hotels, which allow investors to buy rooms, misstated the location of one such property of Great Wolf Resorts. It is the Blue Harbor Resort in Sheboygan, Wis., not Blue Harbor, Mich.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian Greenberg in his hotel room at the Watson's Regency Suites in Ocean City, N.J. He bought the unit in 1996 for $112,000. (Photo by Mary Godleski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LODGING (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); HOTEL AMENITIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); LEISURE TRAVEL (64%); BABY BOOMERS (60%) Hotels and Motels; Housing; Condominiums; Renting and Leasing; Travel and Vacations; Hotels and Motels

COMPANY: JEFFER MANGELS BUTLER & MITCHELL LLP (62%)

ORGANIZATION: Lodging Econometrics

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (62%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (62%)

PERSON: Jennifer Alsever

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (64%) COLORADO, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



15 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; OP-ED; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Last Call

BYLINE: By Peter Thomas Fornatale. 
Peter Thomas Fornatale is the author of ''The Poker Aficionado.''

 BODY:
FOR the last nine years, the Blind Tiger Ale House on Hudson Street in the West Village was one of the best places for New York's beer lovers to be on New Year's Eve. But last night, its doors were locked. The wee hours of Dec. 29 marked the end of an era -- the last pint was poured at the Tiger. No one knows yet what will take its place, but if the neighborhood trend continues, it will be a high-end retail store, perhaps another Ralph Lauren boutique. 
 The place had been around for only a decade, but in that time it became practically world famous for its beer selection. American microbrews, classic Belgians and a selection of others handpicked from around the globe were poured from 24 taps, two handpulls and endless bottles. 
But the Tiger was more than just a place where you could count on drinking a Sierra Nevada Harvest Ale in the fall and Southampton Double Espresso Stout in the winter. It was a cornerstone of the West Village, a place where people from the neighborhood and beyond came to enjoy good company and great beer.
 It didn't seem special at first glance. It was dark and a little dingy, just one small room with a few wooden tables. The graffiti in the downstairs men's room elevated profanity to an art form, and not all the barstools had their legs intact. The bar itself was elegant -- a deep brown wood with zebra-like stripes in the grain. There were two televisions, but the Tiger was no sports bar. (Though I did discover it while looking for a place to watch football on Sundays with my friend and his 6-month-old daughter. Baby-friendly bars in Manhattan are few.)
 I soon became one of the regulars. So regular that on Friday afternoons, the Tiger became my office. I sat at the corner of the bar with my laptop and cellphone, drinking seltzer, chatting with Louise the bartender and trying to make sure the bar cats (Sierra and Liberty) didn't pounce on my keyboard.
 And though the Tiger was a good place to work, it was an even better place to socialize. I met two of my closest friends, Phil and Ray, there. Three of the bartenders were at my wedding. Louise even catered the affair. 
 But now, the bar is closed. Apparently, what has happened one block over on Bleecker Street is now happening on Hudson. The small, independently owned businesses are giving way to the fancy chain stores. As the rents go up, the antiques stores and neighborhood bars, the bakeries and card shops, the hardware stores and funky clothing shops are vanishing and being replaced by stores selling $1,500 handbags. 
 In the Tiger's case, the building on the corner of Hudson and 10th is being remodeled, and the rent will more than double when the job is complete. Even a cash cow like the Blind Tiger can't make the numbers work. How do the fancy chain stores make money? They don't necessarily have to.
 When you're a high-end retail brand, your profit isn't made in a West Village storefront. A downtown boutique can simply be a branding statement. In other words, if you have a shop in the ''right'' neighborhood in Manhattan, your brand has the perceived cachet to sell like hotcakes in low-rent malls across suburbia. 
 While I understand the economics of the situation, it is still galling, even wrong. I have so many memories associated with the Tiger. Of sharing good times, birthdays, engagements. Of rallying behind a friend in need: the benefit party we had for Phil to help him cover his costs when he got colon cancer. And I'll never forget that night in September when regulars and a soot-covered news crew gathered at the bar as Humvees barreled up Hudson Street, away from the smoldering ruins of the twin towers. 
 There's talk that the Tiger will return, a few blocks away, and I would be the first in line for a pint. In a city of strangers, we find our families in funny places -- coffee shops, office cubicles and, sometimes, the corner bar. I haven't yet heard of that happening in a Ralph Lauren boutique. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (92%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (78%); HARDWARE STORES (75%); FASHION DESIGNERS (75%); TRENDS (70%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (70%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: blind tiger ale house (nyc)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (55%) Peter Thomas Fornatale

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



16 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Tear Down That Booth (What a Hoot)

BYLINE: By Paula Span. 
PaulaSpan@nytimes.com

DATELINE: SADDLE BROOK 

 BODY:
IT takes a while to arrange the Ultimate Jersey Driver's Fantasy.
 First, the guys on the roof, wearing fluorescent vests and hard hats and many layers of clothing this bitter morning, torch through the tollbooth's steel beams and aluminum canopy.
Next, a supervisor steers an enormous Caterpillar excavator into position. With tanklike treads, a half-ton grappling claw on the front end -- it looks as if you could invade Normandy with it. 
 ''Grab the light first,'' advises the heavy equipment operator, Joe Surdyka, as I scramble up into the cab. ''Then some of the beams. Then push it over, nice and easy.''
 The southbound Bergen Tolls are about to be history -- and I'm going to help knock them down. 
 Probably there are women whose daydreams run to hunks in hot tubs. But if you regularly drive the Garden State Parkway, you'll instantly grasp why this is a much bigger kick.
 When the parkway took shape in the 1950's, its designers decided to stop traffic 11 times for toll barriers. 
 Was there some logic to this? ''Legend has it that they tried to put one in every county the Parkway went through, so that, um everyone would be equally mad?'' Michael Lapolla, executive director of the Turnpike Authority, is attempting an explanation, but he gives up. ''It never made any sense.''
 At least not in terms of efficiently moving traffic. The planners' prime concern was financial, says Martin Robins, who directs the Voorhees Transportation Center at Rutgers. Because the parkway was supposed to be economically self-sustaining, he says, ''they wanted a foolproof way of collecting every toll they possibly could.'' Yet the highway authority also refused to approve politically taboo toll increases -- there's been only one in all these years -- so the parkway ''has been starved for a very long time,'' he says. 
 When it eventually occurred to transit planners elsewhere that one-way tolls could ease traffic delays (the Port Authority Hudson River crossings adopted them in 1970), the parkway lacked the money to follow suit. So we idled in jams at rush hour and on summer weekends, cursing, because the parkway couldn't afford to tear down booths and double the tolls in the opposite direction. 
 We're quick to blast politicians, usually, so let's blow kisses to two who helped fix this problem. Maybe -- the supreme tribute -- we should name rest stops after them. 
 Our now-rarely-mentioned governor, Jim McGreevey, merged parkway operations into the financially more flexible Turnpike Authority. That made money available for expanding E-ZPass (after its initial stumbles, 60 percent of parkway drivers now use it) and for Express E-ZPass (those overhead gantries that let you pay tolls at 55 miles an hour) -- and, finally, for one-way tolls. Then Dick Codey, the governor who showed what can be accomplished when you don't have to run for re-election, speeded up the pokey timetable. 
 The southbound Bergen Tolls, for instance, weren't scheduled for demolition for another two years. Engineers thought one-way tolls had to be phased in, so drivers could adapt gradually. But guess what? Figuring out the new system takes us, oh, about six minutes. And happy drivers call and e-mail the Turnpike Authority, which is accustomed to less-chipper feedback from its patrons, to cheer the changes.
 So the Raritan, Asbury Park and Union toll plazas came down on one side, followed by Essex and, now, Bergen. Up next: New Gretna, Great Egg and Cape May, just in time for summer. Happy 2006.
 Granted, one-way tolling is not an avian flu vaccine or a Middle East peace treaty. It's a swell turn of events, nonetheless, one pointlessly-irritating pebble fewer in the loafer of life. ''I never thought I'd see this happen,'' one awed toll taker tells me. 
 So I do my bit. With Joe Surdyka murmuring instructions -- ''To your right. Little more, little more. Now to the left'' -- I maneuver the Cat's levers, open the grappler's jaws and wrench off the light. Then, we clunk the grappler down onto the tollbooth's roof, which gives way with a satisfying crack. 
 After about five minutes, the fantasy ends and Mr. Surdyka takes over. There's a limit to how long the demolition can pause for public relations; dump trucks are waiting. 
 The pros work fast. When I pass by days later, an ordinary driver once more, the southbound tolls are gone, and unmourned.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); APPROVALS (65%); PORT AUTHORITIES (65%) 

PERSON: Paula Span

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Garden State Parkway; Bergen County (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



17 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Pass the Microphone, If You Can Get Inside

BYLINE: By WARREN ST. JOHN

 BODY:
AROUND 11 on a Sunday night last month, Sebastian Nicolas, karaoke impresario, leaned back on his banquette at Cipriani Downtown and ticked away at his BlackBerry. The room was empty, save a gaggle of stunning waitresses -- one of them dressed as a Santa's helper -- and in the final moments of calm before his party started, Mr. Nicolas had to take care of some last communiques. He checked on the Boca Juniors, an Argentinian soccer team, his favorite; they'd won. He zapped word to a few friends that the party was starting. Good news: they were on the way. Then he took a sip of Champagne and looked around the room intently, the way a painter might gaze at a blank canvas.
 ''It's all about balance,'' Mr. Nicolas said with the utmost earnestness. ''If there are too many girls, we let in more guys. We don't want that many suits. It's glamorous, but we emphasize the artsy. Whoever is in town is here: Leo, Denzel, Jennifer Lopez, everybody.''
If the prospect of playing host to everybody was unnerving to him, the karaoke impresario wasn't letting on. 
 ''After a while you lose the star-struck attitude,'' Mr. Nicolas said. And there was something else: ''I'm good at this.''
 Using an entirely superficial set of metrics, it is hard to find fault with that claim. In his first time out as a promoter Mr. Nicolas, who grew up in Chile and Sweden and graduated from Columbia University, has put together one of the more exclusive weekly parties in Manhattan, his Sunday night karaoke sing-out at Cipriani Downtown. 
 It's a gathering at which the gorgeous, the wealthy and the accomplished -- and, oh yes, hangers-on aplenty -- mingle, lounge and make out amid a steady flow of vodka and an often terribly off-key vocal soundtrack. On the Sunday before Christmas, the Ralph Lauren model Valentina Zelyaeva swayed willowlike in the center of the room. Anthony Kiedis of the Red Hot Chili Peppers sat impassively on a banquet. Harvey Weinstein and Damon Dash prowled the floor, looking somewhat lost. A clutch of stunning young beauties shared the mike and sang: ''Don't you wish your girlfriend was hot like me? Don't you wish your girlfriend was a freak like me?'' (Later they moved on to a slightly overzealous version of ''I Touch Myself.'')
 ''This is as good as it gets,'' said the photographer Peter Beard, surveying the room -- and the girls -- from the bar. He gestured at the reed roof and exposed timbers overhead. ''It reminds me of the Serengeti,'' he said. It was suggested to Mr. Beard that there were more beautiful women per square foot at the karaoke party than anywhere on the Serengeti.
 ''You should meet my girlfriend!'' he roared. ''She's a dancer.''
 Every season in New York has its model party, a mash-up of extraordinarily beautiful young women and the older men with black Amex cards who seek their company. These days Mr. Nicolas's karaoke party is that event. And yet exactly how it is that Mr. Nicolas, a soft-spoken 26-year-old non-New Yorker, came to preside over one of the more happening scenes in town -- one that routinely attracts people who've been established in the city longer than Mr. Nicolas has been alive -- may seem at first a mystery. 
 As the party thumped around him, Mr. Nicolas took a sip of Amstel Light and explained how it worked.
 ''This is a young man's business,'' he said. ''The girls, they're 19 to 23. If I can relate to them better, I'm in a much better position to be friends. Otherwise it feels unnatural.''
 ''I'm a guy who has access to the top models,'' he added. ''And that's a big thing in night life.'' Mr. Nicolas said he arrived in New York six years ago with no particular advantages. His English was poor, he said. (He still speaks with a thick accent.) He wasn't particularly wealthy; his parents fled the Pinochet regime in Chile and settled in Sweden. (His father is an economist there; his mother, an anthropologist who now lives and works on Easter Island.) But he did have a sister named Monse, who was a model, and Mr. Nicolas soon met and dated some of her friends. 
 ''It was more like a bridge into that world,'' Mr. Nicolas said. ''I never took it seriously. It was just, 'Wow, I'm hooking up.' '' With his international background and his language skills -- Mr. Nicolas spoke Swedish, Spanish and Portuguese, and his English was rapidly improving -- he was a perfect guide for young foreign models settling into New York. 
 He became close with an international crowd of models including Gemma Ward, Caroline Winberg and Petra Nemcova. Whenever possible he gave parties for them. He helped organize an out-of-control birthday party at a bar on the Lower East Side for Ms. Ward, and helped Ms. Nemcova, who survived the Asian tsunami, plan a benefit that raised nearly $800,000.
 Mr. Nicolas said it all suited his temperament perfectly. ''I like hot girls,'' he said.
 One person who felt he could use Mr. Nicolas's connections was Giuseppe Cipriani, who runs Cipriani Restaurants. Mr. Cipriani had opened a membership lounge in a cozy space with a fireplace and sofas above Cipriani Downtown, his SoHo restaurant that is a haven for Europeans for whom a two-hour lunch is as routine as a plain slice for most other New Yorkers. Two hundred fifty invited members pay around $2,500 a year for entree into the lounge, which also draws celebrities; the routine for many is to have dinner downstairs and then move on to the party in the private club above.
 When Sean Combs arrives, it is said, he simply points to the table where he'd like to sit, and if those less famous are sitting there, they are obliged to scatter. With the steep membership fee comes an implicit promise: the crowd, and especially the babes, will be smoking hot. 
 Mr. Nicolas seems to have had little trouble persuading Mr. Cipriani to give him the lounge on Sunday nights, when it was normally closed, to see what kind of scene he could create. It was the promoter equivalent of an unknown comedian getting a gig on David Letterman. 
 There was something special, too, about Sunday night; it is the preferred night out for people who have nowhere in particular to be on Monday morning: promoters, models, celebrities and the lassitudinously rich.
 On this Sunday, Mr. Kiedis, of the Red Hot Chili Peppers, strolled in alone, spotted a model friend, Jessica Stam; the two nuzzled on a sofa for a while, and in no time they were gone. The celebrity crowd can create the potential for awkward moments as well. Only moments after Mr. Kiedis departed, the D.J. cued up ''Under the Bridge,'' the Chili Peppers tune, which was promptly mangled by a guest.
 Mr. Nicolas said his epiphany came last March when he decided to use the Sunday night party to have a birthday celebration for Ms. Winberg, and to bring a karaoke machine. He rejected hip-hop, the preferred soundtrack in most clubs these days, in favor of old-fashioned rock 'n' roll: Lynyrd Skynyrd, Nirvana and Bon Jovi. 
 For his young crowd there is nostalgia about all those old bands, Mr. Nicolas said, which gave his guests something to bond over. Midway through the party Mr. Nicolas realized it was working.
 ''Who doesn't like to be a rock star?'' he said. ''And besides, it's fun to watch people make fools of themselves.''
 Mr. Nicolas has honed his methods. Rather than having a stage, he circulates several microphones in the crowd, so that it's often hard to tell who is singing. ''Having more than one mike makes people more comfortable because if it's bad, they can blame the other person,'' he said. He likes his scene ''messy,'' he said, with people strewn about on the sofas and stretching over one another to pass microphones and to reach for the bottles of vodka on the tables. To an outsider the evening looks like a cross between a beer commercial and a crazed high school party in the basement of some kid whose parents are out of town.
 ''It's really, really 'house party,' '' Mr. Nicolas said. 
 A man at the bar who declined to give his name, for fear of alerting his bosses and clients that he was out past 1 a.m. on a Sunday, described the crowd this way: 
 ''Trustafarian kids, promoters, rich old dudes -- models.'' 
 A bartender delivered his drink and handed him the tab.
 ''Now who in the hell would pay $16 for a Jack on the rocks?'' the man asked. He raised his glass, toasted himself, and tumbled back into the party.


GRAPHIC: Photos: KEY OF COOL -- Sebastian Nicolas, who runs Sunday karaoke at Cipriani Downtown, with Alize Guinochet. (Photo by Christopher Smith for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 LOUNGE SINGER -- Kerry Morgan belts out a tune at Cipriani Downtown's private karaoke night. The weekly event draws celebrities and models. (Photo by Christopher Smith for The New York Times)(pg. 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (77%); RESTAURANTS (72%); SOCCER (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%) Nightclubs and Cabarets; Karaoke ; Models (Professional); Parties (Social)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Cipriani Downtown (NYC Restaurant)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (58%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (51%); RALPH LAUREN (50%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (50%) Warren St John; Sebastian Nicolas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%); CHILE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



18 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Stepping Onto a Career Path Lighted by a Seasoned Guide

BYLINE: By TANYA MOHN

 BODY:
It may seem corny, but Faye Marie Trapani, 28, a second-year M.B.A. student at Baruch College in New York, says she is proud of her school's slogan: The American Dream Still Works. 
 She sees its evidence in the people she encounters at the Executive-Student Partnership, a mentoring program that matches Baruch alumni with students seeking jobs. ''A lot of them came from nothing; they were poor kids from the city, who couldn't afford tuition,'' Ms. Trapani said. 
Her mentor is Norman Brust, a retired marketing and corporate communications executive, who said the Baruch graduates ''were not getting the jobs they deserved to have; we decided to do something about it.''
 Baruch's mentoring program is part of a national trend, experts say. ''In the past five years, there has been a notable increase'' in mentoring programs at business schools, said Timothy Butler, a senior fellow and director of career development programs at the Harvard Business School. ''There is a growing recognition of how important it is.'' 
 To some alumni, it seems only natural to share their business knowledge. ''It's sort of payback time,'' said Dick Merians, chairman and chief executive of Hygrade Integrated Logistics Systems, in Secaucus, N.J.
 When a Baruch professor asked him to become involved about five years ago, Mr. Merians founded Executives on Campus with four fellow alumni from the class of 1955: Mr. Brust; Paul Koren, a certified public accountant; Joel B. Zweibel, a retired lawyer specializing in corporate reorganizations; and Allen G. Schwartz, a federal district court judge, who has since died.
 The mentoring program is part of Executives on Campus, which also includes a lecture series and entrepreneurial competitions.
 Tuition is no longer free at Baruch, part of the CUNY system, but it is modest enough to attract many low-income students, including many who are the first in their families to attend college. About half of the full-time students pursuing M.B.A.'s are foreign-born. 
 Marilyn Kahn, director of the Executives on Campus program, said the mentoring program gives such students role models. 
 On a morning in early September, more than 100 students and prospective mentors mingled over coffee and bagels. ''It's kind of like a meat market,'' Carolyn Stechel, a 27-year-old graduate student in marketing, said with a laugh. ''Like one of those speed-dating events.'' 
 But in less than a minute she met Marianne Hovivian, president of the Rialto Furniture Company, based in Brooklyn, who is now her mentor. ''We just had such a natural rapport,'' Ms. Stechel said. 
 People from both groups exchange background material beforehand. In the days after the breakfast, executives and students name their top five choices; the administration makes the matches. 
 Mentors and students are required to be in contact once a month but are free to focus on any aspect of the job search process. ''I never did any mock interviewing,'' said Justin Garrett, 29, who was mentored by Mr. Brust last year and was recently hired as a vice president doing online marketing for Citigroup. ''I wanted to focus more time on other things.'' 
 Mr. Garrett recalls asking Mr. Brust: ''Who do you know and how can I get to them?'' He added that Mr. Brust ''helped me with connections, and overall strategy,'' and even on how to inject a little humor into the process. 
 Mr. Garrett ''was articulate and accomplished,'' said Mr. Brust, who accompanied him to an interview, but he ''suppressed his sense of humor to appear serious.'' 
 ''When he saw the relationship I had with people, that we were able to throw little digs at each other without feelings being hurt, I think he picked up on that.''
 John C. Braddock, an investment management executive, says that the international students he mentors often face language and cultural challenges. Students from Asian countries, for example, are often uncomfortable marketing themselves and making cold calls seeking jobs. 
 When a student from Mumbai, Vishal Khandelwal, whom he mentored several years ago, came to his office, he said, ''I got the phone and said, 'Let's call right now.' '' 
 ''I sort of pushed the phone to him'' across the desk and said, ''You've got to be a little aggressive. This is America.'' 
 Mr. Khandelwal got the position, a paid internship at Merrill Lynch -- and now works as an analyst for Citigroup in New York. ''I will forever remain grateful to him for that first step,'' he said of his mentor. 
 Not all international students have the same needs. ''I was a little further along,'' said Jacqueline Robinson, a financial analyst for VNU Inc., a global information and media company, who graduated with an M.B.A. in June 2004, among the first group of those mentored. 
 Now 39, she had an established career in the financial services industry in her native Jamaica before attending graduate school. But her mentor ''helped me to define my ultimate career goals,'' Ms. Robinson said. ''She encouraged me to go after my dreams.''
 The mentoring program, now in its third year, has no problem getting executive volunteers. Interest has grown beyond alumni to the general business community and the program now has more than 60 mentors. The program's effectiveness in landing jobs, though, is unknown, said Tracy Handler, director of the Graduate Career Management Center at the Zicklin School of Business. 
 The program is still new, and a fluctuating economy compounds the difficulty in assessing its success, Ms. Handler said.
 ''We see huge leaps in students' confidence and sophistication,'' she said, ''but we can't capture that in a number.'' 
 Mentors say the reaction to the program has been good in the business community. Mr. Braddock said that students were effectively prescreened, saving time for prospective employers, and companies did not have to pay headhunter fees. 
 According to Susan E. Murphy, an associate psychology professor at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont, Calif., mentoring programs are ''trying to emulate what naturally occurred'' in the past, in the mostly homogenous upper echelons of corporate America.
 But with the tight job market and more transience in employment, mentoring is less likely to occur in the traditional fashion, Ms. Murphy said. And with the increase in women and minorities in the work force, there is greater need. ''It helps them get a leg up,'' she said. 
 Mentoring is by no means a one-way street. ''After meeting with Justin, I can't wait to get home,'' said Mr. Brust, who recalls racing to his computer after encounters with Mr. Garrett, who frequently tips him off to Web sites he has never heard off. By staying in touch with young people, ''you stay in touch with the world as it is evolving,'' Mr. Brust said. 
 Though the formal relationship has ended, the two attend jazz clubs together, trade books and catch up over mojitos and key lime pie. ''I have a feeling that we will be friends for years to come,'' Mr. Garrett said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Joel Zweibel, Norman Brust, Dick Merians and Paul Koren, mentors at Baruch College. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); TRENDS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); JUDGES (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%) Labor; Mentors ; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: INTEGRATED LOGISTICS SYSTEMS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Baruch College

PERSON: Tanya Mohn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



19 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Smoke Shops Upset With Surveillance

BYLINE: By MARY REINHOLZ

DATELINE: Mastic 

 BODY:
AFTER about a month of highly visible surveillance by the Suffolk County Police, the tax-free smoke shops on the American Indian reservations of the East End are chafing. 
 Officials say the police are simply after tax evaders and smugglers who buy in bulk for resale. But some smoke shop owners say they think the county's real aim is to shut down the shops, or at least to crimp their business by scaring customers away.
Harry Wallace, the chief of the Unkechaug nation and the owner of one of the four tobacco shops on the nation's 55-acre Poospatuck Reservation here, said the trouble started on the morning of Dec. 8, when police cars appeared outside the reservation. He said the officers handed out fliers to prospective customers saying that possession of untaxed cigarettes was a state crime that cost New York millions of dollars a year in lost excise-tax revenue. 
 On Dec. 14, Mr. Wallace said, the police conducted seat-belt checks on cars entering the reservation. And on Dec. 20, he said, officers in two marked cars were outside his shop, ''telling people that if they purchased more than two cartons, they could be arrested.'' (The state allows possession of two cartons of cigarettes before it believes a crime may have been committed.) 
 During a Dec. 21 meeting with reservation smoke-shop operators and law enforcement staff from the office of the Suffolk district attorney, Thomas J. Spota, Rabbi Steven A. Moss, the county human rights chairman, called for a moratorium on the police presence until there could be further discussions. But Edward Heilig, the assistant district attorney in charge of the economic crimes bureau, which includes a new tax unit that is directing the county's enforcement initiative, said his bureau would not agree to a moratorium. 
 Mr. Heilig said the investigation of the tobacco trade on the perimeter of the Poospatuck Reservation and the Shinnecock Reservation in Southampton would continue ''until people stop going into the reservations to purchase large quantities of untaxed cigarettes to resell for huge profits.'' 
 Excise taxes on tobacco sold to non-Indians have been a source of dispute for years. After numerous attempts, some met by violent protests, the state gave up trying to force reservation vendors to collect and remit the taxes in 1997. In 2003 the Legislature mandated that collection efforts resume; Gov. George E. Pataki vetoed the budget that included the measure, but his veto was overridden. New collection efforts under revised tax laws could begin March 1. 
 Meanwhile, reservation vendors say it is legal for anyone, Indian or not, to buy their untaxed cigarettes in limited amounts for personal use. What no one contends is legal, though, would be to resell those cigarettes without paying the state excise tax, $1.50 a pack. (New York City charges another $1.50 in taxes.) 
 Mr. Wallace said that having the Suffolk police involved was unprecedented and a violation of Indian sovereignty. ''This is an action against our entire reservation, over a state taxation issue that historically has been handled by state taxation and enforcement officials,'' he said.
 Mr. Heilig said that there had been at least six arrests on felony charges since the initiative began, including one person caught with $30,000 cash.
 Richard Dormer, the county police commissioner, and John Meehan, inspector of the department's Seventh Precinct, declined to comment on the operation. Mark Smith, a spokesman for the Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, said that Mr. Levy would not comment, either. ''This really is a law enforcement action and not a policy action,'' Mr. Smith said. ''We're letting the police department and the D.A. run the operation.'' 
 Fred Thiele, the state assemblyman whose district includes the two reservations, said he was somewhat surprised by the way the enforcement action was being handled. 
 ''There are numerous issues between the state and the Indian tribes in the state,'' he said, ''and it's better to deal with these issues in their totality than it is to run enforcement measures for cigarette taxes. I think the better approach would have been to have the state or the county sit down with the leaders.''
 Lance Gumbs, a smoke-shop owner and a former chairman of the Shinnecock's board of trustees, said he knew of no recent cigarette-related arrests near the reservation. He added that bulk sales to non-Indians was ''not something that we do.'' 
 Greater attention was focused on reservation tobacco sales after the Sept. 1 arrest of Brian Bess, a Shinnecock tobacco vendor, on an indictment obtained by the Bronx district attorney, charging him with 16 counts of illegally selling untaxed cigarettes. Some 27 others, mostly immigrants from Jordan, were also arrested, on money-laundering and other charges. 
 ''That case was very troubling to us,'' said Christopher Nickolino, an assistant district attorney who works for Mr. Heilig. 
 Mr. Wallace said he saw a larger motive in the county's action. ''This is not simply a crackdown on individuals engaged in the alleged resale'' of cigarettes, he said. ''This is an attempt to shut us down.''
 Mr. Wallace said that he had lost two days' worth of sales.
 Mr. Heilig said his bureau was not concerned with the consequences of the enforcement action on tribal tobacco sales, but noted that Mr. Spota had directed that no tribe members be arrested. ''The aim is not to put them out of business,'' Mr. Heilig said. ''The aim is to target the people who are buying in bulk.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Indian tobacco shops say customers are being scared away by added police presence outside reservations, like at the Poospatuck, above. (Photo by Doug Kuntz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO STORES (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EXCISE TAX (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); VETO (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RIOTS (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); ARRESTS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%) 

PERSON: Harry Wallace; edward heilig; Mary Reinholz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



20 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: The Army, Faced With Its Limits 

BYLINE: By FRED KAPLAN. 
Fred Kaplan is national security columnist for Slate.

 BODY:
ONE million men and women serve in the United States Army, so why is it proving nearly impossible to keep a mere 150,000 of them in Iraq? 
 The Pentagon expects to face many Iraq-type conflicts in the coming years, wars that involve battling insurgents and restoring stability. As a result, a debate is beginning to churn in defense policy circles: Should the government enlarge the military so it can more easily fight these wars? Or should the government alter its policies, so as not to fight such wars as often, at least not alone?
Senior Pentagon officials argue that neither shift is necessary, that reorganizing the Army's existing combat units into stronger, faster and more flexible brigades will have the same effect as adding more soldiers. But some analysts doubt these adjustments alone will go far enough.
 Lawrence Korb, who was assistant secretary of defense for manpower and reserve affairs in the Reagan administration, states the issue baldly: ''We cannot fight a long, sustained war without a larger ground force.'' He defines a ''long war'' as lasting two years or more. The Iraq war has gone on now for nearly three. 
 The claim may seem strange, until you peel apart the numbers. Of the Army's one million soldiers, fewer than 400,000 are combat troops (the rest are support personnel). Only about 150,000 of those combat troops are on active duty; the rest are in the National Guard and Reserves.
 Then there is the matter of rotation. Combat units, at least in an all-volunteer force, cannot be deployed for much longer than a year. (To do otherwise would risk exhaustion and demoralization.) Replacements come while the battle-weary go out for rest, retraining and resupply. Therefore, to sustain one active brigade (about 3,500 troops) in a war zone, one or two additional brigades must be ready to replace it. 
 Finally, Iraq isn't the only foreign country where American combat troops are stationed.
 In a study published in October, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office calculated that given all these factors the military could not sustain more than 123,000 troops in Iraq for much longer.
 Additional forces, the budget office concluded, would require the United States to ''increase the size of the land forces, terminate some other commitment or rotate forces to Iraq at more demanding rates.'' In the past year, the Pentagon has already stretched the rotation cycle in Iraq, for both active and reserve forces; and it has redeployed one brigade from Bosnia and another from South Korea. ''There isn't much more leeway for simply moving people around,'' Mr. Korb said.
 That leaves the other option: adding more land forces overall. How many? James Dobbins and James Quinlivan, military analysts at the RAND Corporation, have analyzed historical data on the numbers of foreign troops in various occupations after a war. They found that all the successful missions involved troop levels totaling at least 2 percent of the occupied country's population. 
 Taking that figure as a rough rule of thumb, securing Iraq, which has 25 million people, would require 500,000 foreign troops. American and coalition forces now total about 180,000. 
 Gen. Eric Shinseki, the former Army chief of staff, drew on similar historical studies when he told the Senate Armed Services Committee in February 2003, a month before the war started, that ''several hundred thousand troops'' would be needed to restore order after the fighting (a claim that Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, at the time, vigorously disputed).
 A force that large probably could have been mobilized to Iraq for some period, maybe for a year. In 2003-2004, before the insurgency got seriously under way, that may have been enough to impose order. But now, it is generally recognized that it's not possible to send any more troops from the Army as it stands.
 When Representative John Murtha, a Pennsylvania Democrat, advocated withdrawing troops from Iraq in November, he said he did so in part because senior military officers had told him the Army could not sustain even the existing troop levels. 
 As a way to do more with less, the Army has begun to reorganize its forces, so that each brigade has more combat troops and fewer support personnel. John Pike, director of GlobalSecurity.org, an independent clearinghouse for military information, estimates that this shift, if it's fully carried out, will let the military ''sustain its current level of effort in Iraq indefinitely.''
 Top Pentagon officials are also seriously thinking about ways to improve the strategies for waging counterinsurgency wars. In December, Gordon England, the No. 2 official at the Defense Department, issued a directive declaring that ''stability operations are a core U.S. military mission'' and ''should be given priority comparable to combat operations.''
 BUT the 11-page directive notes that carrying out the policy would require not just reshuffling but expanding the armed forces. And the Army's plan for more combat-heavy brigades requires at least keeping the same numbers of troops. Yet in the face of budgetary pressures, Mr. Rumsfeld is reportedly preparing to order cuts in military manpower.
 The Army's recruitment and retention rates are declining, in any case. This has led many experts to wonder if the United States, which has relied entirely on volunteer troops since 1973, should bring back the draft.
 The presidential commission that proposed ending the draft back in 1970 wrote in its report that an all-volunteer force, which it otherwise strongly endorsed, would be good only for short wars. For longer wars, the National Guard and Reserves would be called on for ''the first stage in the expansion of effective forces.'' If war went on still longer and required more manpower, civilians would have to be brought in, if necessary, ''by conscription.'' For this reason, the report recommended, and presidents have retained, mandatory draft registration.
 Few believe Congress will reactivate the draft, short of a threat to national survival or a conflict on the order of World War II. Nor do many senior military officers want to revive conscription. They regard the all-volunteer forces as smarter, more disciplined and more skillful than the draftees of the Vietnam era.
 If the Bush administration lacks the resources to meet its expansive military goals, some experts say, maybe the goals should be contracted to meet the resources. 
 ''After the occupations of Bosnia and Kosovo, people said, 'Look how good we are at this,' '' recalls Barry Posen, professor of security studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''They forget those places are small. Bosnia has four million people, Kosovo two million. It's just hard to impose your will on a larger country, unless you want to be savage about it. It's always been hard.''
 Professor Posen adds, ''If you do need to go in and occupy some place, you should want everybody and his cousin to go in with you.'' This would mean a renewed emphasis on multilateralism, alliances and diplomacy -- stemming not from moral qualms about the use of force, but from simple arithmetic. ''Given the limits on our resources,'' he says, ''it just seems impossible to do it any other way.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lonely Road -- A soldier from the Third Armored Calvary Regiment in Tal Afar. The Iraq war had led to debates over how the military can find enough combat troops. (Photo by Christoph Bangert/Polaris, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (93%); ARMED FORCES (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HISTORY (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); TERRORISM (72%) United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: Fred Kaplan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



21 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 4772 words

HEADLINE: Lives Deserving A Special Remembrance

BYLINE: By Kate Stone Lombardi

 BODY:

Ilse Biedermann
Plant Pathologist and Lover of Orchids
 If you were looking for Ilse Biedermann, it was best to look down, as she was usually to be found at ground level, working on one of her beloved gardens. With a hat pulled low on her forehead, Dr. Biedermann might be nursing her orchids, studying magnolias or, even more likely, working on the grounds of the Lasdon Park and Arboretum in Somers, which she helped develop.
Dr. Biedermann, of Ossining, was a well-known plant pathologist. For 20 years she worked as a research scientist at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, which until 1992 operated a research center in what is now the Kitchawan Preserve in Ossining. At the time the botanic garden left its Ossining outpost, Dr. Biedermann was working on a new species of magnolia at Kitchawan, and she was able to have the plants moved to the Lasdon property, which the county bought in 1986. She was active at the park and arboretum for many years, running the greenhouse with particular devotion to educating children about plants and gardening. 
 The German-born Dr. Biedermann was known for persistence; once she made up her mind to do something, there was no backing down, said Bill Smiles, a friend and the former president of Friends of Lasdon. She was a fierce proponent of protecting open space, and was known to chastise county officials if she thought they weren't managing private development properly.
 In addition to her dedication to Lasdon, Dr. Biedermann was fascinated by orchids, conducting her professional research on the species, and raising them in her own greenhouse. It was at a meeting of the Greater New York Orchid Society that she met Mr. Smiles. Together they decided ''the plant had really outgrown the pot and we needed one up here in Westchester,'' Mr. Smiles recalled. Together they established the Westchester Orchid Society. The group, of which she became president, is still active and meets once a month to discuss the challenges of raising orchids. 
 At Lasdon, there are plans to build an energy-efficient greenhouse that will house a line of exotic trees, shrubs and plants and be used for education. The greenhouse will named for Dr. Biedermann. 
 Ilse Biedermann died June 3 at 76.

Evans Brewster
A Politician and Soft-Spoken Judge
 Evans Brewster spent more than 30 years in public service, in elective politics and on the judicial bench, but he maintained a low-key profile, his influence more often felt behind the scenes than trumpeted in the headlines. 
 ''He was a very well-respected, laid-back, soft-spoken judge,'' said Charles Goldberger, a law partner who knew Judge Brewster for 40 years. ''I never saw him raise his voice, but he commanded presence and respect in his courtroom.''
 Judge Brewster , a White Plains resident for 55 years, was elected to the White Plains Common Council in 1957. He also served on the County Board of Supervisors. He was elected first to the Westchester Family Court and later to the County Court. In 1973 he sought the Republican nomination for Surrogate Court, but the party refused to back him in the primary. He ran anyway, and won the party's nomination. He was surrogate judge for 17 years, retiring at the mandated age of 70. Judge Brewster particularly enjoyed overseeing adoption cases, because he had four adopted daughters. 
 Surrogate cases rarely make news, but in Judge Brewster's court there were exceptions: Jean Harris, who was convicted of murdering Dr. Herman Tarnower, also known as the Scarsdale Diet doctor, renounced her claim to the $220,000 Dr. Tarnower had left to her in his will. Later, Dr. Tarnower's family appeared before Judge Brewster to argue that Ms. Harris should not profit from a book she had written about the case. (The family won the case.) 
 In another ruling, Judge Brewster ended a three-year legal dispute over the bequest of a 96-year-old bachelor, Edwin Irving Johnson, who established a scholarship fund for ''bright and deserving young men'' in the Croton-Harmon Union Free School District. A female student had protested the all-male provision. Judge Brewster declared that the bequest was not illegal because the law didn't prohibit private discrimination and the court had no power to change the will.
 After he retired from the bench, he continued to work at the law firm of McCullough, Goldberger and Staudt, going to work daily, until illness forced him to stop a few months before his death. He was known for his dry sense of humor and passion for golf. He was also a die-hard Boston Red Sox fan and was thrilled when they finally won the World Series in 2004.
 Evans Brewster died July 12 at 85.

Joseph Chichitano
Fighting Fires in Peekskill for 70 Years
 It wasn't easy planning Joseph Chichitano's surprise 100th birthday party. The eldest member of the Peekskill fire department, he didn't like to miss any action, and spent hours listening to the scanner that fellow firefighters had installed in his house. So family members turned down the volume on the scanner. That way Mr. Chichitano didn't hear the chatter as the trucks lined up on the street for the surprise, which took the form of one of his favorite things: a parade. 
 The procession of 10 fire engines and dozens of firefighters, along with many other well-wishers, went directly to his door. It was a fitting tribute to the man who not only founded Peekskill's first Fourth of July parade, now a 45-year tradition, but also devoted himself to firefighting for more than 70 years. 
 Mr. Chichitano joined the Peekskill fire department in 1934, and was elected chief in 1959 and again in 1962. Over those decades firefighting changed dramatically, and he ushered many of the changes into the city. 
 When he first joined the fire company, members pooled their money for equipment, gas and even the department's first fire truck. As chief he introduced radio communication, and oversaw the acquisition of two firehouses. He was also a mentor to younger firefighters.
 ''He was a real hands-on chief,'' said Jim Howard, Peekskill's current chief. ''He was kind of like a teacher, somebody that would explain how he got the information so that you could go get it yourself, and not just tell you the answer. Now that he's not here, I see how valuable that was.''
 Known around town as Chief, Mr. Chichitano also introduced first-aid classes to the department, and founded softball and bowling leagues. He stayed on Peekskill's active list until his death, even taking an annual eight-hour O.S.H.A. refresher course. Mr. Chichitano kept a small museum in his basement with memorabilia he had collected -- old equipment, newspaper clippings and the like -- but the collection was viewed by invitation only.
 ''Not everyone came to see his museum,'' Mr. Howard said. ''You saw it when he felt you deserved it. It was like a coming of age. I'm proud to say I've been there several times.''
 Joseph Chichitano died July 4, just hours before the annual parade. He was 100. 

Ossie Davis
New Rochelle's Voice Across the Country
 Ossie Davis was a nationally known actor and activist, but he was also Westchester's own. A 45-year resident of New Rochelle, Mr. Davis left his mark on the politics and the culture of his home county.
 The rest of the nation knew Mr. Davis for his extensive writing, acting and directing career. His professional life spanned more than a half-century, from a theater production of ''Jeb,'' in 1946, in which he first performed with his wife, the actress Ruby Dee, to recent appearances in three Spike Lee movies, which introduced him to yet another generation of fans. He worked on Broadway, in television and in films. Mr. Davis and Ms. Dee were honored for their work at the Kennedy Center in 2004.
 But those on the home front also knew Mr. Davis for his political activism. He was a national figure in the civil rights movement. He and his wife helped organize the 1963 March on Washington. In 1965, he delivered the eulogy at the funeral of Malcolm X, calling him ''our shining black prince.'' 
 Despite such a high national profile, Mr. Davis managed to stay in the forefront of Westchester's social-justice issues, walking local picket lines, speaking at rallies and supporting a variety of local causes. In New Rochelle, as a member of the local N.A.A.C.P., he sued to bring about a district voting system to improve minority representation. In 1993 he revisited the issue, arguing that newly drawn district lines violated the Voting Rights Act. 
 He marched in White Plains to oppose the death penalty and in Bronxville to support the unionizing efforts of workers at Lawrenceville Hospital; he was also host to Westchester's Million Mom March in support of stronger gun laws. 
 Mr. Davis campaigned for the New Rochelle library budget, headed the fund-raising campaign for New Rochelle's Meals on Wheels, and spoke at a college diploma ceremony for prisoners at Sing Sing Correctional Facility. The day after he died, Mr. Davis had been scheduled as master of ceremonies at the American Red Cross of Westchester's Dr. Jerome Holland Power of Humanity Awards.
 ''Ossie Davis was a towering figure, dedicated to helping others and improving the lives of people in Westchester and around the world,'' said Andrew J. Spano, the county executive, when he proposed this fall to rename a county park for Mr. Davis. ''Despite his fame as an actor, he never forgot his home city and county. His work in all areas of life has been a source of pride for the county that he called home for most of his years.''
 Ossie Davis died Feb. 4 at 87.

Victor Frias
A Passion for Teaching and Coaching Chess
 One spring morning in Yonkers, some 800 children sat down to play chess. The year was 2001 and the guiding force behind the event -- the New York Chessathon -- was Victor Frias, an international master of the game. The parking lot of the Yonkers Metro-North station was transformed into a giant chessboard with 64 squares, and the children had the opportunity to play against some of the world's top players, including Mr. Frias, who moved from board to board.
 A Millwood resident, Mr. Frias was a professional chess player as well as a teacher and coach who worked in and around Westchester. He not only coached national champions but also taught chess to children who lived in public housing in Yonkers. His nonprofit organization, Chess for Kids, introduced chess to hundreds of children.
 In 1994 Mr. Frias became the director of the Yonkers Projects Chess Clubs Program. The following year he sponsored a tournament there with more than 200 children. The program was so successful in Yonkers that other communities looked to it as a model for their own chess programs. 
 Born in Santiago, Chile, Mr. Frias moved to this country in 1979. He achieved his international master title in 1982. He was featured in the best-selling book ''Searching for Bobby Fischer,'' and was a consultant on the movie based on the book. 
 Known for his sense of humor and high energy, he coached both a junior world champion and a two-time United States women's champion, as well as the United States junior chess team. He also ran after-school programs at public and private schools in Westchester, Connecticut, New Jersey and Manhattan, and held chess clubs in his home. There, students played with the family's cats, munched on snacks and ran around Mr. Frias's backyard to let off steam before they settled down to chess. 
 ''Victor was kind, generous and dedicated to making life better for everyone, especially children, through chess,'' said Joan Dubois, a spokeswoman for the United States Chess Federation. The federation was a co-sponsor the Chessathon with Mr. Frias's Chess for Kids group. 
 Mr. Frias died Jan. 15 at 48.

Mary Helton
Teacher Who Instilled a Love of Music
 Mary Helton never planned to be a teacher. She began her career as a piano accompanist. But for thousands of children in Westchester and beyond, Mrs. Helton's legacy was as an educator, mentor and, for nearly 30 years, the guiding force behind the Hoff-Barthelson Music School in Scarsdale.
 Mrs. Helton began teaching piano at the school in 1952 and became its director in 1972. Until her retirement in 1999, she set a tone that combined the love of music with a warm and welcoming atmosphere for students, no matter what their musical ability. 
 ''She was equally wonderful with all the children,'' said Ruth Alperson, dean of the music school. ''The aim of Hoff-Barthelson is not to train professional musicians, although we certainly turn out professionals, but to give children a love of music that will stay with them all their lives.''
 Indeed, Mrs. Helton once told a reporter, ''I pay just as much attention to the kids who will be the audience of tomorrow as to those who will be the artists of tomorrow.''
 Under her leadership the nonprofit school grew substantially. One orchestra expanded to three; chamber groups were added; and she established festivals of Baroque and contemporary music. Mrs. Helton was a strong proponent of music theory, which she considered the basis of musical development. The school currently offers 51 different theory classes, many of which were begun under her direction. 
 The school also expanded physically. The original building, a hotel, was renovated, but eventually, with the number of students growing to roughly 1,700 under Mrs. Helton's leadership, Hoff-Barthelson bought a Tudor house next door. It was redesigned to include teaching studios. Several years ago the school was named the Helton House. 
 In 1988 Mrs. Helton opened a branch of the school in Mount Vernon, known as the Mount Vernon Music Academy. Several hundred children were enrolled and scholarships were available, as they were for the Scarsdale program. The Mount Vernon branch closed in 2002, but other outreach programs in other communities continue. 
 Dr. Alperson, who studied piano with Mrs. Helton, described her as a wonderful musician who produced ''beautiful, buttery, sweet and very rich tones'' on the piano. It was not uncommon for Mrs. Helton to put in 15-hour days at the school. Her devotion inspired loyalty, both in longtime staff members and in former students, who enrolled their own children at the school.
 Mary Helton died Aug. 13 at 78.

Audrey Hochberg
A Politician With Many Passions
 For nearly three decades, Audrey Hochberg held public office, first on the County Board of Legislators and later in the State Legislature. Throughout her career, she was known for her integrity and her attention to detail.
 Ms. Hochberg, a Scarsdale resident, was elected to the county board in 1971, the second woman to serve and one of the few Democrats to win a seat. She remained on the board for more than 20 years and had a significant impact on who was appointed and what received funding in Westchester County government. Serving on the budget committee, she was known for reviewing every page of county contracts. She thoroughly analyzed the backgrounds of proposed commissioners.
 In 1992 she was elected to the State Assembly, where she represented the 88th district, including Scarsdale, Eastchester, Pelham and parts of New Rochelle and White Plains. In Albany she was noted for her work on environmental issues, consumer affairs, gun control, abortion rights and education. 
 ''Audrey made a lot of things happen positively and she stopped a lot of things in government that shouldn't have been happening,'' said Sandra Galef, who served with Ms. Hochberg on the County Board of Legislators and the State Legislature. ''She was just so intelligent;. She researched everything so thoroughly and made such strong presentations, that almost everybody would just change their minds when they heard her review of the issue.''
 As chairwoman of the Commission on Solid Waste Management, she sponsored bills to improve the state's recycling program. Ms. Hochberg wrote laws to increase the penalties for the illegal sale of weapons. She became active in preventing used airbags from being reinstalled in automobiles and led the effort to ban tolls on the Saw Mill River and Hutchinson River Parkways. 
 Supporting adult literacy was another of her passions. In 1996, when endorsing her re-election, The New York Times wrote, ''Audrey Hochberg is one of several Democratic women from suburban districts who have brought a refreshing independence to the Assembly's majority caucus.''
 In 2000 Ms. Hochberg announced her retirement after four terms in the State Legislature. She loved to travel, enjoyed the opera and wanted more time with her family. She went on to serve on the board of directors of Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic and the Westchester Children's Association. Reflecting on her career, she told The Journal News, ''You always think, 'If I had been smarter, worked harder, I could have done more.' But I feel pretty good about what I accomplished.''
 Audrey Hochberg died June 8 at 71.

Renoda Hoffman
Historian and Expert on White Plains
 The way Renoda Hoffman saw it, the United States as we know it today all came down to the Battle of White Plains. 
 ''If we had lost in White Plains, if the British Army had managed to overrun Washington, what would have happened?'' she asked during a re-enactment of the Revolutionary War battle in the fall of 2001, on its 225th anniversary. ''We would have been under British rule.''
 There was little Ms. Hoffman didn't know about White Plains history. She was the White Plains city historian for nearly 30 years. She wrote three books on the city: ''It Happened in Old White Plains,'' ''The Changing Face of White Plains'' and ''Yesterday in Old White Plains: A Picture History of a Vanished Era.'' All were published by the White Plains Historical Society. 
 The picture history included photos of Main Street from 1887 and the White Plains Hotel, which was razed in 1907. ''Like a frontier town, the street is dirt and there are hitching posts and horse blocks,'' reads one caption. 
 Ms. Hoffman fought hard for historical preservation. She was instrumental in saving the Jacob Purdy House, for instance. In an article published in the Westchester Historical Society Bulletin, Ms. Hoffman asserted that the Purdy House had been used as George Washington's headquarters in 1776. At the time, not everyone agreed. The White Plains chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution believed Washington's headquarters had been in a small frame house on Virginia Road in North White Plains. After years of painstaking research and some controversy, historians in both camps agreed that it was likely that both homes had been used as headquarters. 
 Feisty, not quick to back down and known for her sense of humor, Ms. Hoffman would show frustration when she sensed people did not fully appreciate the rich history of White Plains, said John Harrington, trustee of the historical society. But she never let up on her efforts, insisting that any profits from her books benefit the society.
 She was born in Peekskill, but her family moved to White Plains in 1909 when she was 6 months old; she lived there the rest of her life. She led an unsuccessful effort to keep the old White Plains courthouse from being razed to make way for the Galleria mall. She was also the first female president of the Westchester Historical Society and edited the society's magazine for 20 years. 
 Renoda Hoffman died Jan. 6 at 95.

Gwendolyn Lynch
Community Activist Who Won the Lottery
 Gwendolyn Lynch was a woman associated with the word ''first.'' She was the first black president of the Elmsford PTA, the first black Democratic district leader for the village of Elmsford and the first black co-chairwoman of the upstate region of the Women's Division of the New York State Democratic Committee. 
 Her advice and support were sought by a variety of local and national politicians. She was the campaign manager for Assemblyman Richard Brodsky in his first campaign in the 1980's, an adviser to the Rev. Al Sharpton when he ran for the Senate in New York in 1992 and a delegate for Jesse Jackson when he ran for president the same year. 
 As a longtime community activist, she was also a founding member of the White Plains Branch of the Black Women's Political Caucus, treasurer of the Rainbow Coalition and president of the White Plains-Greenburgh Chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. 
 ''She was a Democrat for over 40 years and she was the person that everyone would call,'' said Michael Lynch, Ms. Lynch's son. ''If they had a speech, she would have been the one to correct it. If they had a plan, she would review it.''
 Not all of her firsts were pleasant ones. When Ms. Lynch and her husband moved from Harlem to an all-white street in Elmsford in 1961, ''white people gathered in my yard and shouted epithets, threw rats and nails in my driveway,'' Ms. Lynch told The Journal News in 1999. ''We were lulled into the false belief that in integration, we were entitled to live where we wanted.''
 In other interviews, Ms. Lynch said racism was still pervasive in Westchester. 
 ''Whites have always felt that race relations are getting better,'' she told The Journal News. ''When you question them, no one is racist, no one is prejudiced. White people tend to back up and go into denial even at the mention of the word, without understanding the breadth of racism.'' 
 Ms. Lynch worked as a parole officer for New York State. She was a stylish woman, a great cook and a lover of animals, said Alfreda Williams, the Greenburgh town clerk, a friend who considered Ms. Lynch a mentor. 
 Fortune favored Ms. Lynch in 1984, when she won the New York State Lottery. Her winning ticket -- the numbers for which she picked ''out of the air,'' she said -- garnered her $1,167,000. A woman of strong propriety, she did not make radical changes in her life after her windfall, her son said.
 ''She was always the star of whatever she did,'' he said, ''so winning the Lotto didn't really change that. It helped, of course, but she had always been on top.''
 Gwendolyn Lynch died May 1 at 77.

John Passidomo
Harrison's No. 1 Citizen
 John Passidomo, a Civil War buff, had his own secession to deal with as supervisor of the Town of Harrison. In the early 1970's, a group in the Purchase section of town tried to leave Harrison to form their own village. At the time, Purchase residents were concerned about the town's overdevelopment. Had they incorporated as a village, they could have controlled their own zoning. 
 In an act that became legendary in local politics, Mr. Passidomo entered his office through the fire escape to avoid being served papers that would have begun the legal proceedings for Purchase to incorporate. The supervisor characterized the insurrection as an attempt by 7 percent of Harrison's population to remove 35 percent of its tax base. In a counterattack, he quickly moved to have Harrison become a village as well as a town. That effectively shut down Purchase's plans, because a village can't be formed in another village.
 Mr. Passidomo, who was town supervisor for 18 years, played a major role in developing what is known as Harrison's ''Platinum Mile,'' the string of office parks that included corporations like PepsiCo and Texaco. His first election, in 1965, was inauspicious: after spending a frenetic fall campaigning, he was elected by only 67 votes. 
 But Mr. Passidomo clearly enjoyed the job; he was re-elected eight times. He gained the nickname Smiling John, not only for being able to attract huge corporate taxpayers to Harrison, but also for patiently listening to constituents complain about late garbage pickups or snow removal problems.
 In 1983, Mr. Passidomo resigned as supervisor to become commissioner of the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who had become acquainted with Mr. Passidomo during the Purchase battle, appointed him to the post. Mr. Passidomo spent two and a half years on the job, helping pass one of the nation's first seat-belt laws. It was controversial at the time, and he traveled around the country to proselytize for it. 
 He was such a local fixture that when he announced in 2001 that he and his wife, Gloria, were retiring to Florida, The Journal News carried the headline ''Passidomo Leaving Harrison.''
 At a tribute at town hall, he was named ''Harrison's No. 1 Citizen.''
 John Passidomo died March 2 at 83.

The Rev. Rufus A. Strother Jr.
Preaching Tolerance and Togetherness
 Next to the Antioch Baptist Church in Bedford Hills is a lane known as Strother Crossing. The Town of Bedford named it so in 2000 after the church's longtime pastor, the Rev. Rufus A. Strother Jr. 
 In the 39 years that he led the church, Mr. Strother preached a message of tolerance and love. 
 He joined the church at the height of the civil rights movement in 1965. At the time, the town was still segregated in many areas. From the beginning, he used his leadership to help foster community understanding. 
 ''The church is the vehicle to dissolve barriers, to share, to help resolve problems within the community,'' he told The Journal News last year, when reflecting on his career.
 Mr. Strother organized interfaith services and educational seminars that brought together different groups to celebrate the life and accomplishments of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. He also founded an annual banquet in Dr. King's honor. 
 Among many other community roles, Mr. Strother acted as adviser to the Reader's Digest Association on Community Relations and served on the advisory board of the Northeast Westchester Committee on Equality, a citizens group formed by local churches to encourage community understanding. 
 In the 1970's he became active in local housing issues, and his proposal for low- and moderate-income housing met with strong opposition.
 ''It got dramatic -- quite ugly,'' he said in another interview. ''But it was very good for the community. It brought us together to share and talk about it.''
 Under his leadership the church grew to 250 active congregants from about 50 members. Founded in 1894 to serve domestic workers living in and near Bedford Hills, the church today draws from a wide area and economic base. A dynamic gospel choir drew the attention of the conductor Andre Previn, who in the early 1990's asked the group to record a jazz and gospel album with him.
 Mr. Strother lived in Katonah for nearly 35 year before moving to Fishkill. He retired from Antioch Baptist Church in December 2003. In his last sermon he told his congregation: ''This is your family. Be good to each other.''
 The Rev. Rufus A. Strother died Jan. 20 at 74.

David Weld
Voice of Reason About Lyme Disease
 Diseases rarely become politicized, but controversy about the tick-borne Lyme disease -- how to diagnose and treat it -- seemed to spread as quickly as the illness traveled from Connecticut, into New York and well beyond. David Weld, a biologist and educator, was the first director of the American Lyme Disease Foundation, and was known as a voice of reason, respected by patients, researchers and the medical community alike. 
 ''David dedicated the last 17 years of his life to battling misconceptions, misinformation and medical mistreatment of Lyme disease,'' said James Handelman, who with Mr. Weld was one of the founders of the organization. ''There is a tremendous hysteria around the disease, between patients who feel they are not adequately cared for by doctors, and doctors who feel they have a responsibility in terms of not abusing drugs, specifically antibiotics.''
 Mr. Weld built the foundation into a widely esteemed, accurate source of information, Mr. Handelman said. Founded in 1990 and based in Somers, the group also raised money to support research. 
 Mr. Weld became involved with Lyme disease as part of an advisory committee at New York Medical College in Valhalla in the late 1980's. In his work with the foundation, he developed brochures and tick charts to educate the public. Gradually the Web site aldf.com was developed into a clearinghouse for information.
 An inveterate outdoorsman, Mr. Weld pulled his share of deer ticks off his own body. He loved both trout fishing and hunting, and was devoted to protecting the environment. Mr. Weld, a Pound Ridge resident, was also executive director of the Lower Hudson Chapter of the Nature Conservancy and was an active member of Ducks Unlimited. He was a brother of the former Massachusetts governor, William Weld.
 ''Dave was a man's man,'' Mr. Handelman said. ''He was wonderfully warm and generous and very, very polite. He was a real old-fashioned kind of gentleman.''
 David Weld died June 5 at 66.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ossie Davis in ''The Secret Path,'' a 1999 television show, with Della Reese, front, and Madeline Zima. ''He never forgot his home city and county,'' said Andrew Spano, the county executive, of Mr. Davis, shown below with his wife, the actress Ruby Dee. (Photo by Monty Brinton/CBS)
(Photo by The Brooklyn Botanic Garden)
(Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
(Photo by United States Chess Federation)
(Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
(Photo by Roberta Hershenson)(pg. 6)
(Photo by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)
(Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)
 The Rev. Rufus Strother Jr. was pastor of Antioch Baptist Church in Bedford Hills for 39 years. (Photo by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOTANY (90%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (90%); GARDENING (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); COUNTIES (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); POLITICS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (61%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHESS FEDERATION (59%)

PERSON: Kate Stone Lombardi; ilse biedermann; evans brewster; joseph chichitano; Ossie Davis; victor frias; Mary Helton; Audrey G (Assemblywoman) Hochberg; renoda hoffman; gwendolyn lynch; john passidomo; Rufus A Jr (Rev) Strother; David Weld

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Westchester County (NY); Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



22 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1991 words

HEADLINE: Blood Flows With Oil in Poor Nigerian Villages 

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: OBIOKU, Nigeria 

 BODY:
At first glance, it is hard to imagine anyone fighting over this place.
 Approached by a creek, the only way to get here, a day's journey by dugout canoe from the nearest town, it presents itself as a collection of battered shacks teetering on a steadily eroding beach.
On Sunday morning, the village children shimmy out of their best clothes after church and head to a muddy puddle to collect water. Their mothers use the murky liquid to cook whatever soup they can muster from the meager catch of the day. 
 Yet for months a pitched battle has been fought between communities that claim authority over this village and the right to control what lies beneath its watery ground: a potentially vast field of crude oil that has caught the attention of a major energy company. 
 The conflict has left dozens dead and wounded, sent hundreds fleeing their homes and roiled this once quiet part of the Niger Delta. It has also laid bare the desperate struggle of impoverished communities to reap crumbs from the lavish banquet the oil boom has laid in this oil-rich yet grindingly poor corner of the globe. 
 ''This region is synonymous with oil, but also with unbelievable poverty,'' said Anyakwee Nsirimovu, executive director of Institute of Human Rights and Humanitarian Law in the Niger Delta. That combination is an inevitable recipe for bloodshed and misery, he said. ''The world depends on their oil, but for the people of the Niger Delta oil is more of a curse than a blessing.''
 Africa is in the midst of an oil boom, with companies and governments pouring $50 billion into projects that may double the continent's oil output in the next decade. 
 In the world's thirst for oil and the United States' efforts to obtain it outside the troubled Middle East, African oil has become essential. Africa is expected to provide the United States with a quarter of its oil supply in the next decade, compared with about 15 percent now, and much of it will come from the Gulf of Guinea, where the Niger Delta sits. 
 But much of that oil will come from places like Obioku, and with it a tangled and often bloody web of conflict marked by poverty and a near abdication of responsibility by government.
 Even though Nigeria elected a democratic government in 1999, which raised hopes for the long-suffering delta region, almost none of the enormous wealth the oil creates reaches places like this. The isolation of Obioku is total. With no fast boats available, the nearest health center or clinic is a day's journey away. No telephone service exists here. Radio brings the only news of the world outside. Nothing hints that the people here live in a nation enjoying the profits of record-high oil prices. 
 ''It is like we don't exist, as far as government is concerned,'' said Worikuma Idaulambo, chairman of Obioku's council of chiefs. 
 Nigeria is a longstanding OPEC member that exported nearly $30 billion of oil in 2004, the United States Department of Energy said. Nigeria sends 13 percent of revenues from its states back, a hefty sum for the underdeveloped ones where oil is produced. Much of that is siphoned off by corrupt regional officials who often pocket the money or waste it on lavish projects that do little, if anything, for ordinary people.
 A result has been a violent struggle over the jobs, schools and other aid that oil companies have offered to encourage local residents to cooperate. Here in Obioku, as in many towns in the delta, an oil company, in this case a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell, has brought the only signs of modernity. In 1998, Shell bought the rights to drill for oil near a small fishing settlement at the edge of Obioku, no more than a handful of rough shelters made of grass and wood. 
 Shell signed agreements with the chiefs of Obioku and with leaders in the nearest town, Nembe-Bassambiri, to help develop Obioku. In time, Shell built a water tower, gave the village a generator and built a primary school. In return, the village agreed to allow Shell and its contractors to work freely. 
 For years Shell did nothing with the field. Then, early last year, a Shell contractor arrived to begin work, and trouble started. 
 Officials in a nearby town, Odioma, laid claim to the land, and demanded that the oil company pay tribute if it wanted to drill. 
 ''This is Odioma land,'' said Daniel I. L. Orumiegha-Bari, a member of Odioma's council of chiefs. ''It belongs to us. Anyone claiming otherwise is an interloper wanting to revise hundreds of years of our history.'' 
 Chiefs in Nembe-Bassambiri, who were receiving payments on the premise that the land was theirs, rejected Odioma's claim.
 Human rights and environmental groups have long criticized the practices of Shell, the oldest and largest of Nigeria's oil producers. As a result of a stinging internal report in 2003 that said Shell, whether intentionally or not, ''creates, feeds into or exacerbates conflict,'' the company revamped its community relations strategy. Shell immediately withdrew from the Obioku area and referred the dispute to local government authorities to resolve.
 In this serpentine labyrinth of rivers and creeks, where fishermen eke out a living casting homemade nets, who owned Obioku was academic to the chiefs of Odioma and Nembe-Bassambiri until Shell arrived. But with the sudden promise of payment, the dispute escalated, first in increasingly belligerent letters among the three villages. 
 Words soon gave way to action, and blood began to flow into the rivers and creeks. In February, a boat filled with local government councilors on a mission to broker a deal among the feuding communities was attacked, and a dozen people were killed. 
 Officials in Nembe-Bassambiri blamed a militant youth group in Odioma for the slaughter. The group is believed to be involved in bunkering: stealing oil by breaking into pipelines. 
 As is common here, group members had been hired by an oil company contractor to provide security on the waterways, chiefs in Odioma and other villages said. Such contracts are often a way to buy cooperation from youths who would otherwise attack oil installations and harass workers. 
 Contending that it sought to arrest the members of the youth group, a unit of the Nigerian military known as the Joint Task Force, charged with security in the Niger Delta, went to Odioma on Feb. 19. 
 Thinking that the task force was coming to help them, Odioma's chiefs had gathered in the village king's palace to receive it. But shots were fired, and the chiefs scattered. 
 ''We thought they came in peace,'' said Mr. Orumiegha-Bari, the Odioma chief. ''But they destroyed our village.'' 
 The army flattened Odioma, residents said, leaving behind a barren moonscape covered with a carpet of ash, broken glass and burned concrete where an idyllic village once stood. At least 17 people died in the raid, including a 12-year-old boy called Lucky, Mr. Orumiegha-Bari said. 
 Ayebatari Silgbanibo had been sitting in the tiny office of his computer business, which he started with a grant from Shell, when the gunfire started. ''I didn't want to leave my computer because it is all I have,'' Mr. Silgbanibo, 22, said. ''But I was afraid.'' 
 When he returned, his computer and printer had been destroyed. He is a fisherman now, like his father and most of the men in this village, earning about a dollar a day. The computer, which he received because Odioma has its own oil wells, apart from Obioku, was supposed to lift him out of generations of poverty. 
 ''How can I ever buy a new computer?'' he said. ''It is impossible.'' 
 Brig. Gen. Elias Zamani, commander of the Joint Task Force, said his soldiers opened fire on Odioma only after being fired upon. ''They were lying in wait for the arrival of our troops,'' he said of the youth group. 
 He said some houses had been destroyed when stray bullets struck buildings where petroleum was stored. The army disputes the death toll, saying army officials asked to see bodies and graves and could not find any. But a report on the attack by Amnesty International in November concluded that the destruction seemed to have had specific targets, destroying the houses of the village king and other officials. 
 And yet, Mr. Orumiegha-Bari said he was grateful that it was the Joint Task Force that had attacked his village and not their neighbors in Nembe-Bassambiri. 
 ''If Bassambiri people came first you wouldn't have seen anybody here to talk to,'' the chief said. ''They would have slaughtered every last man.'' 
 The village has asked the army to stay to protect residents from their neighbors. 
 ''We don't like that they are here, but it is better that they stay,'' Mr. Orumiegha-Bari said. The arrival of the soldiers, village leaders said, is the first time any federal government representative has had a presence in Odioma. 
 It is hard to say who is to blame for the violence that has wracked this pocket of Nigeria. Some villagers and human rights groups blame the oil companies and their contractors, which pay for economic development and employ youths, creating an incentive for communal violence. Still others blame the federal, state and local governments, which collect and distribute millions of dollars in the names of local residents yet never seem to produce much benefit.
 ''These conflicts are a direct result of the abandonment of these communities by their government,'' Mr. Nsirimovu said. ''If their government took care of them they wouldn't be fighting over these little scraps and rewards from the oil companies.'' 
 Federal officials acknowledge that corruption is a big problem but point out that even if Nigeria is having an oil boom, it does not amount to great wealth per capita. In 2004, after costs were deducted, Nigeria's oil money amounted about 50 cents for each of the country's 130 million people, they said.
 Shell officials defended their role in the crisis, saying they withdrew from the area as soon as a conflict over ownership arose. They said it was primarily the job of Nigeria's elected officials to develop the country, but added that in addition to taxes and royalties, they contributed 3 percent of their annual operating budget to a fund to help develop the delta. In 2004, the company's contribution to that fund was nearly $70 million.
 ''Government is so removed that they see the oil companies as being the nearest government to them,'' said Don S. Bonham, a spokesman for Shell in the oil capital of Port Harcourt. ''The expectations of government have not been met.'' 
 The communities fighting over the oil fields are in Bayelsa State, which produces a third of Nigeria's oil and has an annual budget of more than half a billion dollars to spend on its three million people. But most of it goes to white elephants like a mansion for the governor and his deputy. 
 ''This is what we eat,'' said Paulgba Tekikuma, an Obioku resident, gesturing to a small bowl half-full of tiny fish and crustaceans she would mix with milled cassava. ''The water, sometimes it get the babies sick when they drink. But we no get any other.''
 Corruption is largely to blame. The state's governor, Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, was arrested in London on money laundering charges in September, then fled to Nigeria, where he enjoyed immunity even from prosecutors, in November. He is suspected of stealing hundreds of millions of dollars from the state since he was elected in 1999. He has since been impeached, and as a result charged with corruption and money laundering in Nigeria. After an inquiry in 2005, Amnesty International concluded, ''As with many violent disputes within communities in the Niger Delta, access to oil resources is at the root of the Odioma incident.''
 Mr. Nsirimovu, the human rights advocate, said the underdevelopment of the region both caused and exacerbated the violence. Until real development begins, ''blood will flow freely in the Niger Delta,'' he said. ''Mark my words.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the struggle by impoverished communities in the Niger Delta to reap any benefits from the oil boom misstated the amount of money the oil industry generates for Nigeria. It is 50 cents each day for each of the country's 130 million people, not 50 cents per capita over all in 2004.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Odioma, a Nigerian village, was damaged by the army last year in a dispute over oil rights, residents said. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Children drew water from a muddy pool, the only source of water for Obioku, top. A woman, above, from Odioma and her sick child traveled to a distant town for care because Odioma has no medical facilities. The area is oil rich but both villages are poor.
 Royal Dutch Shell's oil plant in Bonny, Nigeria. Shell bought oil drilling rights near a fishing settlement at the edge of Obioku, an isolated village, and agreed to help develop it. (Photographs by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)(pg. 6)Map of Nigeria highlighting Obioku: Obioku, Nigeria, sits atop a potentially vast and lucrative field of crude oil. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); ETHICS (74%); EROSION (73%); BEACHES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Ethics; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: Royal Dutch Shell

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) NIGERIA (97%); NIGER (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%) Nigeria ; Obioku (Nigeria); Odioma (Nigeria); Niger River

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



23 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Popularity Endures Despite His City's Problems

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, Dec. 29 

 BODY:
A few days after William A. Johnson Jr. became mayor of this city in 1994, he took a phone call from a constituent concerning a local issue.
 The caller was 11. The issue was his neighborhood playground, which was scheduled to close.
Mayor Johnson arranged a breakfast meeting. The boy's mother served pancakes. 
 Rather than closing, the playground got new equipment. 
 In Mr. Johnson's 12 years in office, perhaps no other municipal problem has been solved so easily. Like many other cities in the state, Rochester (population 219,000) has struggled with a loss of manufacturing jobs, a flight to the suburbs, and crime.
 Mayor Johnson's last year in office has been grim. He has attended the funerals of young murder victims in the latest bout of urban violence and has tried to rescue a bankrupt ferry service to Toronto.
 Yet perhaps because of projects like the playground renovation and his accessibility to residents, he leaves office a popular figure. ''If you work with him, he'll work with you,'' said Roxie Sinkler, whose son, Jamaal, now 23, was the 11-year-old activist.
 Mayor Johnson, 63, decided not to seek re-election this term, citing a desire for less stress and an easier workload. He leaves office on Sunday. 
 Sometime in 2006, he plans to start a teaching job at Rochester Institute of Technology. His friends joke that it will be a perfect environment, for he is known for his ability to lecture. ''I don't have any regrets,'' Mayor Johnson said in an interview in his office, which was filled with packing boxes.
 His critics say he should have at least one regret: having championed a high-speed, high-profile ferry service, which was supposed to rejuvenate the local economy and turn Rochester into a tourist destination.
 Displaying a famous stubborn streak, Mayor Johnson ignored the warnings of business advisers, who said the operation would not be profitable, said William Nojay, a former adviser on the ferry project, and he worked with two entrepreneurs to bring a luxury ferry here in 2004.
 The ferry, which crossed Lake Ontario to Toronto in two and a half hours and carried as many as 774 people and 238 cars, was often fully booked. But the business failed after 80 days because of financial and bureaucratic problems.
 This year, Rochester took over the project. City and state officials have invested more than $63 million in the ferry, including the costs of building a terminal and buying the fast ferry at a bankruptcy auction.
 ''He is an honest, good-hearted man,'' George Conboy, president of an investment firm, said of the mayor, ''but I don't believe to this day that he has much business sense.'' 
 This summer, under its first year of city control, the service performed dismally, with a $4.2 million operating deficit, layoffs and dwindling ridership in fall and winter. Initially scheduled to run year round, the ferry closed on Dec. 12. Its troubles have made headlines, but the mayor has not wavered.
 One of Mayor Johnson's last tasks was to ask the City Council to approve an additional $11.5 million in financing to keep the ferry operating through 2006. But the Council deferred to the incoming mayor, the former police chief, Robert Duffy, who had asked to be involved in the decision.
 ''If the ferry continues in 2006, it will be out of deference to Bill Johnson,'' Mr. Nojay, the former adviser, said. ''But after that, it will be gone, because the city cannot continue subsidizing $8 million to $10 million losses.''
 Mayor Johnson insists that the ferry will prove itself. But he has toned down his optimistic language. ''If in 2004, it had shut down, it would have definitely become my legacy,'' he said. ''I prefer to be criticized for trying to save it instead of sitting on my hands and doing nothing.''
 It is that willingness to take on a tough issue that many find appealing. ''He really wanted a major success,'' said a friend and colleague, Pearl W. Rubin. ''He tried very hard. But some problems are so complicated, no city administration could deal with it.''
 One of those was crime. For years, Rochester has had a high homicide rate. The number of killings had declined after the city moved aggressively to dismantle gangs. In 2005, however, a new wave of violence left several children dead and tempered the feeling of progress. ''Every year I've been mayor, a young person has died,'' Mayor Johnson said. ''My heart cries out.'' 
 Perhaps because of his inability to bring major changes on issues like that one, Mayor Johnson has focused on the more understated, and undisputed, successes of his term.
 He helped establish entertainment districts in stagnant areas of the city, kept spending under control and strengthened relationships with the Police Department. As the city's first black mayor, he hired more members of minority groups and made the office more accessible to residents.
 ''He broke new ground in that way,'' said Clayton H. Osborne, vice president for human resources at Bausch & Lomb. ''Accomplishments like that are not always visible.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rochester's mayor for 12 years, William A. Johnson Jr., in his office at City Hall. In the cartons were speeches Mr. Johnson delivered. (Photo by Max Schulte for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); FERRIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (73%); SUBURBS (72%); AUCTIONS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); MURDER (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); LAKES (64%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (50%); TOURISM (50%) Mayors; Ferries; Elections

PERSON: Michelle York; William Johnson Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%) ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LAKE ONTARIO (79%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Rochester (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



24 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Closing of Mine on Tribal Lands Fuels Dispute Over Air, Water and Jobs 

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: BLACK MESA, Ariz. 

 BODY:
The gigantic earth-moving crane sits idle, a 5,500-ton behemoth stilled by a legal, cultural and environmental dispute playing out far from the rich vein of coal beneath the desert of remote northeastern Arizona. 
 The rig, known as a dragline, may never again scrape the earth's surface at the Black Mesa Mine to get at the coal beneath the Hopi and Navajo lands.
Some welcome the idling of the earth-gobbling beast, a symbol, they say, of the rape of the land and precious water below. Others, mostly American Indians who have come to depend on the high-paying jobs at the mine, are furious. 
 For 35 years, the Black Mesa Mine has produced coal for a power plant in southern Nevada. But it suspended operations at the end of December, ending the jobs of nearly 200 people. 
 Most of them are members of the Navajo Nation and the Hopi Tribe whose livelihood and dreams depend on work at the mine, jobs that pay as much as $80,000 a year in wages and benefits, 10 times the average annual income on the reservations.
 The mine is ceasing work indefinitely because the sole power plant it supplies, the Mohave Generating Station 273 miles away in Laughlin, Nev., is shutting down under a legal agreement with environmental groups that sued because of repeated pollution violations. 
 The power plant is owned by four utilities that have balked at paying the estimated $1 billion in upgrades to comply with the court order and keep the plant operating. 
 One idled worker is Myrata Cody, 48, a heavy equipment operator at Black Mesa for the last 27 years. She is a Navajo and a single mother, providing support for three children and her aging parents. Her anger at losing her job drives her to tears.
 ''This income is the only thing I have,'' she said. ''There is no power line to my house, no phone line, no running water. Everybody else has everything at the tip of their hands.''
 She reserved particular ire for the environmentalists who went after the owners of the power plant to try to stop the thick plume of smoke and noxious chemicals it has poured into the atmosphere for decades. The groups contended that the emissions fouled the air over the Grand Canyon and threatened the health of people who lived downwind.
 ''All those people protesting for the environmental groups, none of them live up here,'' Ms. Cody said. ''If this plant shuts down, some of us are going to have to leave our elderly parents behind to go find work. Who's going to go out there and check on them, make sure they get their medication? Nobody from the environmental groups, that's for sure.''
 While many of the players are quick to point to villains -- a heartless coal company, out-of-touch environmentalists, air-fouling utilities -- the facts are more shaded and complex. The coal company has both exploited and enriched the reservations, the environmental groups are offering other sources of income for the tribes, and the utilities are seeking cleaner energy alternatives to the coal-burning Mohave plant.
 The mine is operated by the Peabody Western Coal Company, a subsidiary of the Peabody Energy Corporation, the world's largest coal company, which has made tens of millions of dollars from the Black Mesa mine. But it has also poured millions of dollars into schools, community centers, roads and power lines on the Indian lands of northeastern Arizona, although basic services are still lacking in much of the tribal region. 
 It provides $89 million a year in payroll, lease payments, taxes and other benefits to this region, where unemployment among the Hopi and Navajo is nearly 40 percent.
 Buck Woodward, the mine manager, called the closing of Black Mesa ''a tragedy'' that could hinder economic development on the reservations for years.
 The environmental groups that sued Southern California Edison and the three other owners of the Mohave Generating Station agreed to give the plant operators six years to comply with the consent decree, which was signed in 1999.
 The company was supposed to install scrubbers to clean its smokestacks of sulfur dioxide emissions and negotiate new coal and water supply agreements with Peabody and the tribes. But it decided not to, at least for now, after the original estimate of $400 million for compliance rose to $1 billion and it received no assurance that it could recover the cost from customers.
 The plaintiffs said that they were willing to discuss an extension of the deadline to preserve the jobs but that the utilities chose not to negotiate. 
 The environmental groups -- the Grand Canyon Trust, the Sierra Club and the National Parks Conservation Association -- are also proposing alternative energy sources for the power companies and economic development programs for the tribes to cushion the impact of closing the mine and the power plant. 
 Roger Clark of the Grand Canyon Trust said Southern California Edison and the other plant owners would be eligible for as much as $50 million a year in pollution credits when the Mohave plant closed. He added that the utilities should send some of that money to the Hopi and Navajo as compensation.
 The plant owners delayed the needed investment in Mohave in part because they had no assurance that Peabody and the tribes would agree on water and coal issues that would keep a reliable source of fuel coming to the plant over the next 20 years. 
 Southern California Edison has acknowledged that the Mohave plant is a serious polluter and is seeking cleaner alternatives. This month it announced that it was opening a natural-gas-fueled plant in California to replace two-thirds of the generating capacity lost with Mohave.
 And the tribes have fought among themselves for a generation over the wisdom of the coal agreement and the use of the water beneath their lands to transport the coal to Mohave. In an unusual process, the coal is ground into fine particles and mixed with water to form a slurry, which is carried by underground pipeline from Black Mesa to Mohave, where it is dried in large centrifuges and then burned to produce electricity.
 The process uses 1.2 billion gallons of water a year from a water table known as the Navajo Aquifer, one of the highest-quality sources of water in the arid West. Some tribal leaders said sacred streams and springs had dried up because of the mine's water use and called its closing an undisguised blessing.
 ''Peabody has done us a favor by putting us in this situation,'' said Vernon Masayesva, 66, former Hopi chairman and longtime mine opponent. He said he sympathized with the workers, but added, ''It's time for us to cut the umbilical cord to the company store.'' 
 Mr. Masayesva said that as a young man in the 1960's he listened to Hopi elders discussing the proposed mining of the coal beneath the Black Mesa, which gets its name from the low-slung pinyon trees that from a distance make the top of the 6,000-foot mesa look black. He said the elders believed that the coal could be of lasting value to the tribe, if mined at the right time, in the right way and for the right purpose.
 But Mr. Masayesva said the agreements the Hopi and the Navajo struck with Peabody and the federal government were poor. ''We should have waited until we were educated, until we had our own hydrologists, our own engineers, our own lawyers and economists,'' he said.
 He said the mining had been destructive and wasteful, to the land and to the water. ''Wasting water is criminal in our culture,'' he said. ''It is the tribe's covenant with the earth, and we broke it.''
 Last, he said, the coal has been used for the wrong purpose. Rather than enriching the lives of all tribal members and contributing to a sustainable way of life, it is used to light the casinos of Las Vegas and heat the hot tubs of Los Angeles, he said.
 ''The benefits to the Hopi have been not much and not worth the price,'' he said. ''It's time for us to get aggressive and get smart about our own resources.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Myrata Cody, 48, is among the 200 workers idled by the mine's closing.
 The Black Mesa Mine in the desert of northeastern Arizona has produced coal for a power plant in southern Nevada for 35 years. It has also provided jobs for the Navajo and Hopi. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); MINE WORKERS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); COAL MINING (89%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (76%); CLOSINGS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LITIGATION (70%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (69%); AGING (63%); SINGLE PARENTS (63%) Coal; Electric Light and Power; Mines and Mining; Indians, American; Navajo Indians; Hopi Indians; Labor; Air Pollution; Coal; Black Mesa Mine (Arizona); Shutdowns (Institutional); Factories and Industrial Plants

ORGANIZATION: Peabody Western Coal Co

PERSON: John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (93%); EARTH (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Arizona 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



25 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: The Nation's Capital Struggles to Lure Residents to the City 

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
Talk to city planners here in the nation's capital and they paint a glittering picture of urban renewal, with gleaming condominiums soaring from once-vacant lots and new theaters, cinemas and shops blossoming in a downtown that, in past years, was sometimes desolate.
 And they envision people -- thousands of people -- flocking to a revitalized city better known these days for its downtown development and declining crime rate than for its years of urban blight. The hope for a population boom has been so great that Mayor Anthony A. Williams has often predicted that the city will add 100,000 residents by 2010. 
This month, the Census Bureau doused those dreams with some sobering estimates. From 2000 to 2005, census officials said, the city's population fell by 20,523, bringing the population to 550,521, the sharpest decline in that time period noted in the population survey of the nation's states, the capital and Puerto Rico. 
 City officials sharply contest the figures, but they acknowledge that growth has been much slower than anticipated. By their own estimates, city planners say, the population of the nation's capital has grown by just 1 percent since 2000, which means that if the trend continues, Washington will fall decidedly short of meeting the mayor's goal.
 City planners now hope to meet the more modest goal of gaining about 36,000 people by 2010. The number of single professionals, childless couples and retirees flocking to the city has been offset by the number of families moving to the suburbs in search of affordable housing and better schools, city and private-sector analysts say.
 ''We don't dispute there's been a reduction in household size,'' said Ellen McCarthy, director of the city's Office of Planning. ''But we think the Census Bureau has exaggerated the loss of families.
 ''We look around and we see thousands of housing units being developed in the city,'' said Ms. McCarthy, who plans to present the Census Bureau with city data in hopes of formally changing its estimate. ''We think that we are growing. We don't think it's major growth, for sure. But there are no events or indicators that would suggest a drop of this magnitude had occurred.''
 Rodger Johnson, a Census Bureau demographer, said the agency remained confident that its estimate was accurate. But while city and census officials debate the precise population figures, no one disputes that the effort to increase Washington's population has been tougher than expected, despite the city's improved economic fortunes, its bustling downtown and its construction boom. 
 In 2003, city officials started a marketing campaign to persuade more people to move in. They bought advertisements in local newspapers and hung posters in Metro cars. The slogan for the campaign was ''City Living, D.C. Style.''
 ''We must lure back residents who fled the city in the past,'' Mr. Williams said as he was sworn in for his second term as mayor in 2003. ''We can do this. We will do this.'' 
 Back then, city officials ticked off several reasons why the goal seemed possible: Property values were soaring, fiscal accountability was improving and big retailers were moving back to a city once viewed as a pariah. The city was desirable again. 
 But analysts now believe that rising housing prices and concerns about the quality of the city's public schools drove many families out.
 ''Now that we're halfway through the decade, I think that 100,000 would be very optimistic at this point,'' said William H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution.
 ''People who move into the city, to a large degree, are young people,'' Mr. Frey said. ''When they pair up and start having kids, they start thinking about moving to the suburbs. It could be that with the revitalization of downtown you may get a more stable population than you had before. But the jury is still out on whether or not these young couples will stay here.''
 Census officials say population decreases can mean smaller federal allocations to cities and states. Charles C. Graves III, deputy director of the city's planning office, said Washington could lose critical money if the figures were not adjusted.
 The bureau has been wrong before. In the 1990's, city planners point out, middecade census estimates undercounted the population in Washington by about 50,000.
 Signe Wetrogan, assistant chief in charge of population estimates at the Census Bureau, acknowledged that there was an underestimate in the 1990's. But, Ms. Wetrogan said, ''We have a sense that we have continued to improve the methods we use and the data we collect.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Cranes and grumbling cement trucks signal the booming development in downtown Washington. But the city's population is not rising rapidly. (Photo by Samantha Reinders for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CENSUS (92%); CITIES (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); FAMILY (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); TRENDS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); CRIME RATES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); SUBURBS (69%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (61%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (60%) Area Planning and Renewal; Census; Population

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Rachel L Swarns; Anthony A (Mayor) Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



26 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: After Storm, Relief Groups Consider More Work in U.S.

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Three days after Hurricane Katrina obliterated a vast swath of the Gulf Coast, Oxfam America dispatched a team of emergency relief experts to Mississippi.
 It was the first time Oxfam, a relief organization with headquarters in Oxford, England, had ever responded to a humanitarian crisis in the United States.
''Our whole U.S. program was built around addressing endemic poverty, not disaster relief,'' said Raymond C. Offenheiser, president of the American affiliate. ''But for a variety of reasons, not the least of them what happened -- or didn't happen -- after Katrina, we're looking at that becoming more of what we do here.''
 The chaotic response to Hurricane Katrina by government agencies and the Red Cross, the sole private organization charged by law with providing relief in national emergencies, has led organizations like Oxfam to wonder whether they have a role in disaster response here.
 Now, as Congress considers whether it should broaden the mandate for disaster response beyond the Red Cross, Oxfam and other international humanitarian agencies may find themselves called upon to take on new responsibilities in the United States. 
 ''After witnessing the American Red Cross's struggles during Katrina and Rita, I am not sure it is prudent for Congress to place such great responsibility in the hands of one organization,'' said Representative Jim McCrery, Republican of Louisiana.
 Whereas the American Red Cross is typically expected to handle the bulk of the relief work required immediately after a domestic disasters, nonprofit groups responding to a crisis abroad try to work collaboratively and with grass-roots nonprofit organizations that they have nurtured as part of their efforts to build civil society and eradicate poverty. Each group has relative strengths: for example, Doctors Without Borders is known for providing emergency medical assistance, Oxfam for water purification and sanitation expertise. 
 ''The issue is, can the mandate change in some way to stop this sort of differentiation between global action and domestic action,'' said Dr. Mohammad Akhter, president and chief executive of InterAction, an alliance of nonprofit groups working abroad. ''We need to erase the line between the two so our resources can be used in a truly global way.''
 No one is suggesting that the international aid organizations get involved in the more commonplace domestic disasters like house fires, which are a big part of the Red Cross's day-to-day operations. Rather, Dr. Akhter said, the groups are assessing how they might pitch in should, say, a flu pandemic hit the United States.
 ''If an avian flu outbreak takes place, the Red Cross will never be able to handle it alone,'' he said. ''In fact, all resources will be taxed beyond their ability. We will have to pitch in and we should be ready.''
 International relief groups' first role domestically came after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, when Mercy Corps and other organizations sent staff members to New York City.
 ''Before that, most of our work in the U.S. in response to disasters was to raise money for other organizations that had capability on the ground,'' said Neal Keny-Guyer, chief executive of Mercy Corps. ''As the Katrina disaster began to unfold, our initial thought was that was the way it would go, too, but as the scale seemed to overwhelm local and federal government capacity, we thought it might be worthwhile for Mercy to get involved in a bigger way.'' 
 Mercy sent a 12-member team lead by a staff member who was leading the organization's work after the 2004 tsunami in Aceh, Indonesia, to the Gulf Coast. The team identified distribution outlets for supplies; offered training to teachers and others who would be dealing with those displaced by the hurricane, and began recruiting residents to help with digging out and rebuilding, a technique that it has used in the region affected by the tsunami to help disaster victims invest in their futures.
 But some of the most established international relief agencies are wary of making too big a commitment to addressing domestic disasters. Peter D. Bell, the departing president of CARE USA, said the organization's board and management team had discussed whether to get involved after Hurricane Katrina and decided that it had no comparative advantage that would add value to the relief effort.
 ''By and large, when natural disasters strike, we've been there on the ground for decades before and will be there for decades afterward,'' Mr. Bell said. ''What makes our response so effective is first our cultural familiarity with the affected areas and secondly our staying power, and we had neither of those factors in our favor in this case.'' 
 The International Rescue Committee got involved when Vietnamese and Cambodian fishing families displaced by the storm showed up at its office in San Diego, seeking the resettlement assistance that underpins the organization's founding.
 The committee also dispatched a team to Baton Rouge at the request of the Baton Rouge Area Foundation, ''which was saying we can't get anyone at the federal or state level to answer the phones and we need some advice about what to do,'' said George Rupp, its chief executive. 
 Mr. Rupp said he was not anxious to commit the organization to anything more extensive in the United States.
 ''In general, when the U.S. systems are working, when FEMA knows what it's doing, when the Red Cross is able to cope, they really have the experience and the networks that are needed,'' he said. ''We should focus on that unless the situation is really extraordinary and the scale of the crisis enormous.''
 Oxfam's foray into domestic disaster relief began with the local groups, like the Southern Mutual Help Association Inc., that it had been working with for several years to tackle poverty and promote economic development and with new groups its workers on the ground identified. 
 ''I had never heard of them before,'' said Sarah Walker, executive director of Visions of Hope, a tiny nonprofit that provides a variety of housing support to low-income residents of Biloxi, Miss. ''But they were here right away and wanting to know if we'd be willing to work with them and naturally, we said yes.''
 Oxfam made a $30,000 grant to Visions, which used the money to buy vouchers that families could use at the Home Depot, Lowe's and other retailers for brooms, mops, flashlights and other equipment to clear out their homes. For Visions, with an annual budget of about $125,000, the grant made a huge difference.
 ''It helped us get back on our feet and get to work,'' Ms. Walker said. 
 Oxfam focused on the east section of Biloxi, home to many of the city's poorest residents and immigrant workers, and joined local politicians and religious leaders in protesting the neglect of those groups as the relief effort unfolded. It gave a $32,000 grant to another new partner, the Mississippi Immigrants Rights Alliance, which used a recreational vehicle to make contact with the state's approximately 130,000 Latino residents, many of whom were unaware of the services available to them.
 Mr. Offenheiser said such activities were likely to ''change the face'' of Oxfam America, which is perhaps best known domestically through its campaign over agriculture subsidies and other trade issues.
 ''I think this is going to grow our program here and engage us more in U.S. domestic policy,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Safiya Daniels and Kenny Rae were part of Oxfam's first crisis response mission in the United States, in Biloxi, Miss., after Hurricane Katrina. (Photo by James Edward Bates for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (95%); HURRICANE KATRINA (93%); HURRICANES (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); WEATHER (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (77%); INFLUENZA (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (62%); EPIDEMICS (62%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods; Hurricane Katrina; Disasters; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: OXFAM AMERICA (94%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (93%) American Red Cross; Oxfam (Relief Orgn)

PERSON: JIM MCCRERY (52%) Stephanie Strom

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); BILOXI, MS, USA (78%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



27 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1621 words

HEADLINE: In New Orleans, Housing Sales Are Bright Spot

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
A surprisingly healthy real estate market in the New Orleans metropolitan area is proving to be one bright spot in an otherwise stagnant local economy. 
 The market is not sizzling hot, at least by comparison to New York and San Francisco in recent years. Still, it is stronger than anyone might reasonably expect four months after Hurricane Katrina, with prices for houses in many areas at or above prestorm levels.
 ''Right after the storm, if I had heard myself talking like I am now, about setting records in some offices and posting three record-breaking months in a row, I would've wondered what Kool-Aid this guy was drinking,'' said Arthur Sterbcow, the president of Latter & Blum, an 89-year-old New Orleans real estate firm that bills itself as the largest on the Gulf Coast. ''But every day it gets crazier and crazier in a positive way.'' The last few months of 2005, Mr. Sterbcow said, have proven to be ''the best period in the history of our company.'' 
 The market is spotty, to be sure. In areas hit hard by flooding, such as the New Orleans East and Lakeview neighborhoods of the city and other communities that ring the southern edge of Lake Pontchartrain, home sales are down significantly, as only the bravest speculators are buying in these distressed communities.
 But there are plenty of buyers, with some seeking investments and others just needing a place to live after losing a home. Most people are buying ''high and dry,'' to borrow the term on every broker's lips since Katrina, but even that seems a surprising vote of confidence in the long-term prospects of New Orleans and the surrounding parishes. In the West Bank area, which lies west of the Mississippi River, November sales were up 99 percent, in dollar terms, over November 2004, according to data provided by Latter & Blum. And in the high-priced Garden and Warehouse districts, the firm's November sales more than doubled.
 Real estate brokers here view the housing market's comeback as a small miracle in a city where 80 percent of homes were flooded. Don Randon, a broker who has been selling properties in New Orleans since the 1970's, described himself as ''busier over the last 10 weeks'' than at any time in his 28-year career. 
 And while Sissy Wood, who runs her own real estate firm in Metairie, a suburb west of New Orleans, said she had not been setting records in recent months, she described the sales in her area as robust. 
 Thousands of buyers are paying good money for homes and making the ultimate commitment to the area -- signing long-term mortgages when the city is still debating its rebuilding plans and while large swaths of the region remain deserted like ghost towns in the Old West. Many critical questions, including the strength of the levee system and the rules for rebuilding in flood plain areas, remain unanswered.
 So with New Orleans's revival still in doubt, paying pre-Katrina prices even for a splendid piece of property on high ground may seem risky. Yet some are already speculating that, in the coming months, New Orleans will be experiencing the kind of bidding wars that occur in some markets, at least for homes in those areas that did not flood.
 ''That's coming,'' David Abbenante, the director of property management at HRI Properties, a local real estate developer. ''Just wait until people start getting their insurance checks.'' Brokers are also looking forward to an influx of buyers in June, when families with children enrolled in schools around the country are able to move back. 
 And while it is too soon to reach definitive conclusions, real estate brokers suggest that the flight to higher ground, especially to the suburbs or to urban condominium towers that boast ''Cat 5'' windows -- those strong enough to withstand the winds of a Category 5 hurricane -- promises to reshape the housing market in the metropolitan area in the coming years. It is no wonder, since Hurricane Katrina destroyed or damaged roughly 200,000 homes in the greater New Orleans area.
 ''When you have a huge amount of people displaced by flooding, like you did in New Orleans, it makes perfect sense that you have people who need to buy real estate and people who feel like they have to sell,'' said Thomas Z. Lys, a professor at Northwestern University and a director of the Guthrie Center for Real Estate Research. 
 In the Latter & Blum office for the Garden and Warehouse districts, which remained fairly dry, November sales were $15.8 million, up from $7.8 million in November 2004. The increase in sales is primarily the result of volume rather than price increases, said Joan Winchell, who manages the office. ''The bulk of homes are going at pre-Katrina prices, or maybe $10,000 or $20,000 more,'' Ms. Winchell said.
 The increase has been even more dramatic in the West Bank area, which saw little flooding. Home sales jumped 159 percent, to $26.5 million in November, from $10.3 million the same month in 2004. 
 And sales in the suburbs that lie just west of New Orleans soared to $29.7 million, up from $10.3 million, representing a 189 percent year-over-year increase. The sales in other suburbs around Orleans parish were up 65 percent to 162 percent in November, according to the figures provided by Latter & Blum. 
 ''We're hopelessly undersupplied right now in terms of what people are demanding most: homes in areas that have power and have schools in areas that did not flood,'' said Mr. Sterbcow, the company's president. Latter & Blum lost two of its New Orleans offices in the flooding. 
 This mini-boom, at least in select areas, is due to a confluence of factors, including the presence of speculators who believe this is the perfect time to be scooping up properties. 
 ''If you're willing to buy flooded houses, you can find some great bargains,'' said F. Patrick Quinn III, a local real estate developer who said he has been snapping up both commercial and residential properties throughout the region. Several real estate brokers contacted said they were representing out-of-towners or corporations looking to invest in New Orleans real estate.
 The bulk of residential buyers, agents say, are local residents who are purchasing a second home to live in while the fate of their first home is determined by insurance companies and government officials. That includes Mark Rose, who in November bought a home in Metairie after his Lakeview home was flooded. Mr. Rose is the general manager of Nola.com, a Web site that includes extensive real estate listings in the greater New Orleans area. 
 ''What we're seeing is a lot of homeowners trying to inflate the price of homes in areas not hit by flooding,'' Mr. Rose said. Those properties do not tend to move, he said, because a lack of available funds in people's pockets are keeping home prices relatively stable. 
 ''How many people can afford two monthly mortgages, especially if the prices of the second home are inflated?'' he asked. For some people, insurance payments are helping to defray the cost of a second home.
 Yet buying a second home might still be more attractive than leasing, as the monthly cost of renting a home has spiked by 50 percent or more, according to Ms. Wood, the broker in Metairie. 
 ''Leasing is at a premium right now as so many people are looking for a place to live for 90 days to six months while things sort themselves out,'' Ms. Wood said. 
 Another sign of optimism came in December when KB Home, the California home builder, bought 3,000 acres of land in a suburb to the west of the city. The firm, which is in a partnership with the Shaw Group, a construction and engineering company based in Baton Rouge, has said it plans to build as many as 20,000 homes on the property.
 ''Until now, we've never seen any national builder express interest in building in the New Orleans area,'' said Mr. Randon, the broker. He represented the property owner in negotiations with KB Home. 
 The RAND Corporation has predicted that, in three years, the city of New Orleans will have a population of no more than 275,000, down more than 40 percent from its pre-Katrina population of 465,000. Much of the decline will come from evacuees who do not return, while some former city residents will move to the suburbs. 
 ''I think what we'll see is a morphing of the residential property market,'' Mr. Randon said. The demand for homes on the north shore of Lake Pontchartrain, which is at less risk of flooding, and for homes in high-and-dry suburban communities, will prove a factor that will help reshape the metropolitan area, he said. 
 Another could be the lure of condominiums, which offer people a chance to live high above sea level. The New Orleans condo market was hot prior to Katrina, but Mr. Randon predicts the market will be ''very, very, very strong in the coming months,'' in no small part because of empty-nesters like him and his wife. With a daughter in college and a huge bill to fix up a flood-damaged home, ''I think we're like a lot of people in asking, 'Do we really need a big house or would we be better off moving into a condo more in the center of town?' '' Mr. Randon said. 
 So far, there has not been any spike in condo prices, according to Sean Talbot, of the Talbot Realty Group, which specializes in condominium sales. ''We've been busy, but not as productive as we had been before the storm,'' he said. 
 Mr. Talbot was the only one of the dozen-plus brokers, bankers and developers contacted for this article to sound a skeptical note about post-Katrina business. Still, he is hardly pessimistic about the local real estate market. He described business in recent weeks as only ''decent,'' but he added, ''things are starting to happen and getting better every week.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A house recently sold in Metairie, a suburb of New Orleans.
 Suzanne Lapin, bottom right, a real estate agent, showed a house in the Garden district of New Orleans to Margaret and John McGregor, who lost their home in Hurricane Katrina. In total dollar terms, sales of residential housing in that district and others have been very strong, agents say. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 14)Chart/Map: ''One Firm's Experience''November real estate sales were surprisingly healthy at Latter & Blum, a real estate firm based in New Orleans.NUMBERS REPRESENT:Contracts in millions Nov. 2005 / Change from Nov. 2004Greater Baton Rouge:$48.1 / -3%Greater New Orleans area:$152.6 / +50%TANGIPAHOA:$13.0 / +337%ST. TAMMANY:$28.4 / +65%ST. JOHN:$11.8 / +146%New OrleansGarden and Warehouse districts:$15.8 / +104%East Jefferson:$29.7 / +189%Uptown:$21.7 / -4%West Bank (JEFFERSON):$26.5 / +99%ST. CHARLES:$11.2 / +162%Map of New Orleans and surrounding areas highlighting flooded areas on Sept. 2, 2005.(From satellite imagery analysis by Dartmouth Flood Observatory)(Flooding analysis not available in certain areas.)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); HURRICANES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); HOME PRICES (76%); RIVERS (71%); LAKES (66%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Levees; Area Planning and Renewal; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



28 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Hotel Executive to Succeed Longtime Chairman at Javits

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Pataki administration has announced the appointment of a hotel industry executive to head the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, which has been hampered by infighting and disputes over plans for a $1.4 billion expansion of the complex on the West Side of Manhattan. 
 Joseph E. Spinnato, president of the Hotel Association of New York City, will succeed Robert Boyle, the longtime chairman of the Javits operating corporation who was abruptly removed from the post two weeks ago.
Joanna Rose, a spokeswoman for Gov. George E. Pataki, said that Mr. Spinnato, who has been a member of the Javits board for the last 14 years, was ''uniquely qualified'' to serve as chairman and ''realize the historic expansion of the Javits Center.'' 
 Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, chairman of a legislative committee that oversees the Javits Center, said that Mr. Boyle's removal reflected ''political interference'' and the state's ''bungling'' of the project. 
 Mr. Boyle, who declined to comment, has been at odds with Charles A. Gargano, the state's top economic development official, who also heads the Javits Center expansion project, as well as with the Bloomberg administration. Their sharply divergent views were highlighted in testimony at a Dec. 14 hearing sponsored by Mr. Brodsky.
 The issues revolve around the sluggish pace of the Javits project, which was approved by the State Legislature a year ago; the location of a convention center hotel; and the budget for the overall project. At the hearing, Mr. Boyle also questioned the city's request to relocate the Javits' marshalling yard from the south side of the complex to the north side, which, he said, would be unwise.
 ''The hearings uncovered substantial friction and delays related to the project,'' Mr. Brodsky said. ''When you see a C.E.O. fired for taking a principled position, whether he's right or wrong, it indicates political interference of the worst kind.''
 After his appointment was announced on Friday, Mr. Spinnato, who will remain as president of the hotel association, said he was eager to get to work. ''The priority is to get the board behind the project and patch up any wounds,'' he said. ''This project has been hanging around a long time and really needs to get going.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (91%); LODGING (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); APPROVALS (70%) Appointments and Executive Changes

ORGANIZATION: Javits, Jacob K, Convention Center (NYC); Hotel Assn of New York City

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; George E (Gov) Pataki; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Robert Boyle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



29 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; IN BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Era of Cable Choice Inches Ever Closer

BYLINE: By JEFF GROSSMAN

 BODY:
THE telephone giant Verizon is poised within the next three months to offer cable television service to customers in New York for the first time. The State Public Service Commission, which regulates the cable industry, unanimously approved its first municipal agreement on Dec. 14, paving the way for its expansion plan -- over the objections of Cablevision, its main competitor in the area. 
 The good news for customers is that they will at last have a choice of providers. In fact, completed franchise agreements between Verizon and the Villages of Nyack and South Nyack, in Rockland County, are already pending before the commission. 
 The frustrating news for Verizon is that in the interim, Cablevision is able to offer a complete menu of cable, Internet and telephone services, said Eric Rabe, a Verizon spokesman. So Cablevision can now pull New York customers away from Verizon, but not the other way around. 
 ''They're definitely having an effect,'' Mr. Rabe said of Cablevision. ''There's no question that telephone customers are leaving us and going to them.'' 
 Across the New York City metropolitan area, Cablevision has signed up 601,208 customers for its Optimum Voice service in less than two years, according to figures supplied by Jim Maiella, a spokesman. Cablevision offers its basic complement of cable, Internet and voice services to new customers for $29.95 a month for a year and then increasing to $115 per month, Mr. Maiella said.
 Federal standards liberate businesses in New York from having to get state or local authorization to provide Internet service. Because the digital telephone signal provided by Cablevision is considered an Internet product, the company did not face any state regulations in adding telephone service to its menu, regulators said.
 But Verizon, as a new entrant in the cable business, must obtain individual municipal franchise agreements and then have them confirmed by the Public Service Commission before it can use its system to its full potential.
 ''On both sides the technologies are evolving,'' Mr. Rabe said. ''When this all gets to be digital, the network doesn't care whether it's a song, a TV program, a phone call or a Web page. It all gets handled the same way, and that's true of our network, and it's true of the cable networks. So they're evolving, the two of them are evolving to be able to do all of these communications services.''
 To judge by Verizon's recent efforts to gain access to homes on Long Island, the Public Service Commission eagerly supports the idea of competition. In voting in mid-December to approve Verizon's cable agreement with the Village of Massapequa Park in Nassau County, Thomas J. Dunleavy, one of five commissioners, said that the consumer will be the beneficiary of increased competition. 
 ''This is just the tip of the iceberg,'' he said in the public session. ''I'm absolutely delighted to see that it is happening. Competition is the cornerstone, the touchstone, of what it is that we are about here.''
 Yet at the behest of both Cablevision and the Cable Telecommunications Association of New York, the approval was conditioned on Verizon's complying with state regulations that require cable companies to be roughly equivalent.
 Setting that condition was ''a significant victory for fair competition,'' said a statement provided by Mr. Maiella, the Cablevision spokesman.
 Being roughly equivalent, though, does not mean being identical. Chad Hume, deputy director of the Public Service Commission's office of telecommunications, said: ''It is essentially an end-of-the-day determination that when taken as a whole, the economic costs and burdens associated with providing service in a community between competing providers are essentially equal.'' 
 Cablevision has also pursued its campaign against Verizon on another front. In a lawsuit brought against the Village of Massapequa Park in state court, it says the meeting at which the Verizon agreement was unanimously approved violated the state open-meetings law, Mayor James Altadonna said.
 The cable company lost a suit against the Village of Rye Brook for access to its negotiations with Verizon, said Edward Beane, the lawyer who represented the village in the case. Rye Brook is now negotiating separate cable franchises with both companies, he said.
 In Nyack, Cablevision had full access to the Verizon negotiations, said Mayor John Shields. The discussions lasted about three months, included several public meetings, and created boxes of paperwork, he said. Several documents carefully compare state regulations, the Verizon contract provisions, Cablevision's comments and Verizon's rebuttals.
 ''At one point, I said at the meeting, 'O.K., what we really have here is two corporations which have issues with each other, which are of no interest to me, frankly,' '' Mr. Shields said.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 8, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Verizon's plans to offer cable television service in New York State misstated the rate that Cablevision charges new customers for its package of basic cable, Internet and voice services during the first year. It is $29.95 a month for each of the three, for a total of $89.85 a month; it is not $29.95 a month for all three.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Verizon's black relay boxes dot the landscape. Below, a Verizon service technician installs fiber-optic cable at a house in Scarsdale. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (91%); CABLE INDUSTRY (91%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); APPROVALS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); CITIES (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%) 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Verizon Communications; Cablevision Inc; Public Service Commission (NYS) 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%)

PERSON: Jeff Grossman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Westchester County (NY); New York State; Massapequa Park (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



30 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: New Yorkers Who Earn The Minimum Get a Raise

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
For the last few months, Valentin Alonso, 31, has sold doughnuts, scooped ice cream, mopped floors and delivered food for a combination Baskin-Robbins and Dunkin' Donuts shop in Spanish Harlem.
 He has been paid $6.50 an hour, a bit more than the state minimum wage of $6, which rises today to $6.75 for 360,000 workers in New York.
His wife, Janery Melendez, 28, has a part-time maintenance job for the City Department of Parks and Recreation. Their earnings must cover $990-a-month rent for an apartment in Long Beach, N.Y.; rising fuel costs; health insurance; and the costs of raising their 12-year-old son, Luis. 
 ''You know what 12 years old means?'' said Mr. Alonso. ''It means another bill. It means sneakers. It means a jacket. It means school supplies.'' 
 Mr. Alonso does not think much of the new minimum wage. ''You need a minimum wage of $9 an hour just to begin to survive in New York.''
 Today's rise is the second stage of a three-year increase. The minimum wage will rise again, to $7.15 an hour, on Jan. 1, 2007. The national rate is $5.15. 
 For workers who get tips, the minimum wage will go to $4.35 from $3.85, and will rise again next year, to $4.60. 
 The State Legislature approved the increases in 2004 over the veto of Gov. George E. Pataki.
 The raise has been criticized by business lobbyists as a job destroyer that encourages businesses to move to nearby states that have lower minimums. New Jersey's is $5.15, but Connecticut's is $7.10. Mark P. Alesse, the New York director of the National Federation of Independent Business, a lobbying group, said of the increase, ''We opposed it successfully for years and got the governor to veto it.'' The group's 15,000 members in New York State employ an average of fewer than 10 workers, and it is businesses that size that are most affected by the minimum wage, he said.
 He doubts that the increase helps the people that minimum-wage advocates say it helps, he said. ''This isn't for low-wage heads of households,'' he said. ''It's for the unions.''
 Many union contracts use formulas, for example, pegging salaries at $20 above minimum wage. ''This is a way of getting an across-the-board wage increase without negotiating for it,'' Mr. Alesse contended.
 Besides, Mr. Alesse said, ''We take care of our working poor.'' New York, he said, has ''the most comprehensive social safety net in the nation.'' 
 Dan Cantor, the executive director of the Working Families Party, which lobbied the State Legislature for the increase, said it was untrue that companies move jobs to states with lower minimum wages. ''McDonald's does not close down and move across the state line when you raise the minimum wage,'' he said.
 James A. Parrott, the chief economist at the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal research organization in Manhattan, said that while job growth in New York State had lagged behind the national rate, the increase in the number of low-wage jobs in New York State had outpaced that of the low-wage jobs across the nation.
 For Noemi Rodriguez, 21, and her 2-year-old daughter, the minimum wage is a simple matter of going hungry. Ms. Rodriguez, a single mother who lives with her mother, makes $8 an hour as the chief photo technician at a Duane Reade in East Harlem. Six months ago, she said, ''I earned the minimum wage when I started here, and I was still going hungry,'' she said. ''It's not enough to pay utilities, buy food and take care of my baby.''
 She sees a solution, however. ''I'm moving to Florida,'' she said. ''I can get a $500-a-month, two-bedroom apartment and earn $9 an hour. I leave in April.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 4, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about New Yorkers' reaction to a 75-cent increase in the state's minimum wage -- to $6.75 an hour from $6 -- gave an outdated figure for New Jersey's minimum wage. It is $6.15 an hour, no longer $5.15.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); LOBBYING (89%); VETO (86%); GOVERNORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); FAMILY (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); APPROVALS (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%) Labor; Law and Legislation; Minimum Wage; Tips and Tipping; Labor; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: Anthony Ramirez; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State; New York City; New York State; New Jersey; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



31 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Gifford Miller's Council

 BODY:
Gifford Miller served for 10 years in the City Council, the last four as its powerful speaker, leading what may have been the most spirited, cantankerous council any New York mayor has ever had to deal with. As a new council prepares to name his successor, Mr. Miller deserves to be remembered for exercising strong and creative leadership at moments when the mayor's executive ambitions needed a restraining hand. 
 Mr. Miller was 32 years old when he stepped into the speaker's chair. His council was a combustible mix of freshly minted public servants and term-limited members -- including Mr. Miller -- who were plotting their next career moves. Even with that distraction, or perhaps because of it, the council passed important legislation. 
 It ordered that emergency contraception be available in hospitals and drug stores. It mandated stricter gun controls and the abatement of lead paint dust from apartments with children. It placed restrictions on predatory lending, a practice that was snatching homes away from working families and the elderly. It created a living wage law. 
 Mr. Miller's overwhelmingly Democratic council overrode vetoes by Mayor Michael Bloomberg some three dozen times. There were episodes of partisan pugnacity we could have done without, but there were also times when we were happy to see the council hold firm. 
 In 2002, for instance, when the mayor announced that he planned to suspend recycling for budgetary reasons, Mr. Miller made sure that metal, along with newspaper recycling, continued. Mr. Bloomberg did suspend glass and plastic recycling but eventually came to agree that recycling in general made economic sense. He not only restored full recycling but set ambitious goals -- a conversion that owed much to the council's stubbornness. 
 The two butted heads again on trash disposal, a difficult issue on which Mr. Bloomberg occupied the moral high ground. The mayor, who wanted to spread the burden among different neighborhoods, proposed a garbage transfer station in Mr. Miller's predominantly white and privileged district. Mr. Miller's complaints smacked of elitism, and he failed to muster a necessary veto override. 
 The chemistry between mayor and speaker could be painfully uneasy, especially on budgetary issues. To their mutual credit, that did not hurt the final product. Mr. Miller always seemed to relish his role in restoring money for social programs, like meals for seniors, and keeping libraries open.
 More important for the city, he showed courage by pushing through a property tax hike of 18 and a half percent. It kept the city running, but at political peril to council members. The mayor -- who had wanted a 25 percent increase -- also took heat, but later helped himself with voters by giving homeowners property tax rebates of $400. Mr. Miller's counterproposal was fairer -- giving rebates to renters, too. But the speaker, the career politician, lost again to Mr. Bloomberg, the ultimate salesman.
 Among Mr. Miller's strengths was his ability to see all sides of an issue, but sometimes this led to indecision, and he seemed not to understand how he annoyed everyone by sitting on the fence forever, as he did before supporting the lead paint bill and opposing the West Side stadium. His deliberate style also hurt him when he did not move quickly enough to pursue sexual harassment charges against Allan Jennings, a council member from Queens.
 But when he made up his mind he could be tenacious. He led an activist council to the end, passing bills to help businesses owned by women and minorities, to provide translation services and to help low-income seniors with their heating bills.
 A battle-hardened politician at age 36, Mr. Miller was forcibly retired by the term limits law. His successor will likely try to change that law with a council vote. Mr. Miller has sagely advised against such a move. This issue, he has said, should be left to the voters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); VETO (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); BUDGETS (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); LEAD (73%); FAMILY (73%); LIVING WAGE (72%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); TAX LAW (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (69%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (69%); GUN CONTROL (69%); TAX RELIEF (68%); PREDATORY LENDING (67%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (64%); TAX INCREASES (60%); CONTRACEPTION (54%); LEAD PAINT (53%) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Gifford Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



32 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Making Poverty History in 2006

 BODY:
It was a banner year in 2005 for big speeches from global leaders about fighting third-world poverty. But if any of their promises are going to come close to being kept, 2006 must be a year of action. 
 The British prime minister, Tony Blair, called Africa's poverty ''the fundamental moral challenge of our generation.'' The United Nations' secretary general, Kofi Annan, spoke of a generation that could make poverty history. President Bush twice stood on the world stage and promised to sharply increase development assistance to poor nations. He did it first at the Group of 8 summit meeting in Scotland in July, when he pledged to double aid to Africa by 2010. He did it again two months later, at a United Nations meeting in New York, where he urged that the ''Monterrey Consensus,'' which calls on rich countries to increase their spending on development aid to 0.7 percent of gross national product, be put into effect.
And finally, at last month's World Trade Organization meeting in Hong Kong, trade ministers from 149 countries agreed to eliminate export subsidies for farm products by 2013, opening up new opportunities to farmers from poor countries who now have to compete against subsidized products. The ministers also vowed to offer technical export assistance to poor countries and to get rid of cotton export subsidies this year.
 These were all very fine words. This year, it is our fervent hope that the men who stood up on the world stage and uttered them will put them into action. It is past time for global leaders to put the Millennium Development plan they hatched back at the turn of the century into real action and make poverty history. It's time to channel real money into ground-level, village-based water programs, to actually spend money on a malaria vaccine and AIDS drugs and mosquito bed nets and school feeding programs. There are ways to bypass corrupt local governments, and funnel aid directly to those on the ground who need it. It is time for President Bush to go to Capitol Hill and demand that lawmakers fully finance his Millennium Challenge Account, which is supposed to increase United States assistance to poor countries that are committed to policies promoting development. This program is a worthy endeavor, but both execution and funding have been lackluster. 
 Britain, France and Germany all coupled their goals of spending 0.7 percent of their gross national products on development aid with a timetable; the target date is 2015. The United States has not been so specific. (To its credit, the United States did join with six other rich countries to reach a deal to eliminate $40 billion of debt owed by some of the world's poorest countries.)
 The world needs no more speeches in 2006 about global poverty. The six million children under 5 who die every year of diseases that can be easily and cheaply treated do not need more lofty goals. Nor do the 40 million young people still unable to go to school, or the 300 million Africans who lack access to clean water. The time for talking is over. Our resolution for the new year is to keep track of how many of last year's promises turn into something more than words.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); EXPORT PROMOTION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); MALARIA (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TRENDS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (72%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); CHILDREN (70%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (68%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (67%); AIDS & HIV (65%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (64%); ANTIVIRALS (62%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (62%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Editorials; Third World and Developing Countries; Foreign Aid; United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); TONY BLAIR (57%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); AFRICA (93%); SCOTLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



33 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Federal Loans Available To Fix Flood Damage

 BODY:
Homeowners, business owners and those renting apartments who had property damaged by the severe flooding in the state last fall can now apply to the federal government for low-interest loans to make repairs. 
 The Small Business Administration recently approved a request for the loans that was made by Governor M. Jodi Rell after the Federal Emergency Management Agency turned down her request for help.
 The Small Business Administration lends as much as $200,000 to repair a house or apartment, up to $40,000 to replace personal effects and as much as $1.5 million for businesses and nonprofit organizations, the governor's office said. Interest rates on 30-year loans can be as low as 2.6 percent for homeowners and renters, and 4 percent for businesses. 
 Applications are available from the administration at (800) 659-2955 from 6 a.m. and 11 p.m. daily (except the New Year's holiday weekend) or from www.sba.gov/disaster. The deadline for applications is Feb. 21. 
 The governor's office said those seeking loans should not wait for insurance settlements or contractor estimates before applying.
 According to the governor's office, flooding in the state from Oct. 7 to 18 damaged at least 5,200 residences and 355 businesses.


GRAPHIC: Photo: October flood, Glastonbury. Federal loans for repairs are available. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); FLOODS & FLOODING (91%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FLOOD INSURANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); APPROVALS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (52%) 

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (91%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (57%) Small Business Administration

PERSON: M JODI RELL (77%) Jeff Holtz; M Jodi (Gov) Rell

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



34 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: A New Justice, an Old Plea: More Money for the Bench

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., delivering his first year-end report after three months on the job, took up the call often heard from his predecessor for increased pay for federal judges.
 The failure by Congress to raise judicial salaries beyond a modest cost-of-living increase represents a ''direct threat to judicial independence,'' the chief justice said Saturday in a six-page report on the state of the federal judiciary.
Federal district judges now receive $165,200 a year, a figure rapidly surpassed by young associates at major big-city law firms. Court of appeals judges receive $175,100. Associate justices of the Supreme Court are paid $203,000, with the chief justice earning an extra $9,100. The figures reflect a recent 1.9 percent ''employment cost index adjustment.'' 
 Judicial pay was a frequent theme in Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist's 19 annual reports; three years ago, he acknowledged that he was in danger of ''beating a dead horse'' by continuing to press the issue. Chief Justice Roberts said Saturday that despite his predecessor's efforts, ''the situation has gotten worse, not better.'' 
 He said that since 1969, with inflation taken into account, judges' ''real pay'' has declined by almost 24 percent, ''while the real pay of the average American worker during that time has increased by over 15 percent.'' Federal judges ''are leaving the bench in greater numbers now than ever before,'' he said, with 59 of the 92 judges who have resigned or retired since 1990 entering private law practice.
 In his report, Chief Justice Roberts also raised a topic of growing concern to judicial officials, the rent charged to the judiciary for its courthouses by a federal agency, the General Services Administration.
 Except for the Supreme Court, which owns its building and pays no rent, federal courts are tenants of the executive branch and over the last fiscal year collectively paid $926 million in rent to the G.S.A., amounting to 16 percent of the judiciary's total budget. 
 Noting that the agency's ''actual cost'' of providing the space was only $426 million, and that executive branch agencies were assessed a much smaller proportion of their annual budgets for rent, the chief justice said the disparity was ''unfair,'' adding, ''The federal judiciary cannot continue to serve as a profit center for G.S.A.''
 Chief Justice Rehnquist had raised this issue in his last annual report, and it was a topic of discussion among judges attending the most recent meeting of the Judicial Conference of the United States, the policy-making body for the federal courts. The group met at the Supreme Court in September and may propose legislation to address the rent question.
 Chief Justice Warren E. Burger, in the 1970's, was the first chief justice to deliver a year-end report. Although these reports are delivered with considerably less ceremony -- as an e-mail attachment this year for the first time -- they serve a similar purpose as the president's annual State of the Union address in highlighting issues of concern and making clear the chief justice's own administrative priorities. 
 The report is also a reminder of the chief justice's role as the head of a branch of government with thousands of employees.
 While Chief Justice Rehnquist's reports were usually bland and bureaucratic, Chief Justice Roberts took a more personal approach in his initial effort. ''I recognize that it is a bit presumptuous for me to issue this report at this time, barely three months after taking the oath as chief justice,'' he said, adding, ''It remains for me very much a time for listening rather than speaking.''
 He continued: ''But I do not intend to start the New Year by breaking with a 30-year-old tradition, and so will highlight in this report issues that are pressing and apparent, even after only a few months on the job.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUDGETS (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); APPEALS COURTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%) Wages and Salaries; Courts; Judges; Legal Profession

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US) ; Supreme Court (US) 

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (90%) Linda Greenhouse; John G Jr (Chief Justice) Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



35 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 2597 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey, Party Bosses Meld Politics And Business

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TOMS RIVER, N.J. 

 BODY:
Construction is expected to begin this year on a condominium project that will add cars to clogged roads, tax the sewer system and strain the nearly depleted water supply of this growing suburb along the Jersey shore. 
 Getting the go-ahead to build near a congested stretch of Route 9 in Dover Township required an assortment of special arrangements including zoning changes that hinged on the support of local officials.
It also had the help of John A. Lynch Jr., one of New Jersey's political power brokers.
 For years, the controversial 348-unit townhouse project called JSM at Hickory had languished, but the developer, Jack S. Morris, had the friendship and support of Mr. Lynch, a Democratic Party leader based in Middlesex County. The two men sprinkled around campaign contributions and helped elect a new mayor, who then revived the moribund plan. The rest soon fell into place. 
 The saga of JSM at Hickory is a classic illustration of how citizens' concerns about traffic, pollution and overcrowded schools can be overcome by money and political connections.
 It is one small, striking example of the impact of New Jersey's political boss system.
 In New Jersey, say those who try to get things done, it is also typical of the way things work. 
 Governor-elect Jon S. Corzine, a novice to politics in 1999, understood that from the start. 
 To ease his way into the state, he immediately started donating more than $4 million worth of the fortune he made on Wall Street to a handful of Democratic Party power brokers around New Jersey.
 Among them was Mr. Lynch, then the Senate minority leader, who had declared himself an early supporter of Mr. Corzine's run for the United States Senate and later received more than $1 million from him for his various campaign funds and political action committees. 
 Yet Mr. Corzine, who has given more money to the Democratic political machine than anyone in New Jersey history, was elected governor in November on a promise to rein in the bosses.
 ''I want to be very clear: Our government should not and will not be about economic opportunities for politicians or anyone else,'' Mr. Corzine said during an election night victory speech so fiery, he repeatedly pounded the rostrum.
 But even with the vast powers that New Jersey's governor holds -- he is the only statewide elected official -- Mr. Corzine's ability to loosen the party leaders' grip on power will not be easy. 
 For one, state law makes most of their activities perfectly legal.
 ''It's not unusual,'' said Alan Marcus, a lobbyist and registered Republican who calls Mr. Lynch a friend. ''It's common. And until somebody makes it illegal, they're going to keep doing it.''
 And, in New Jersey, it remains strong, despite increased public scrutiny -- and even as similar systems have eroded elsewhere.
 The Democratic leaders operate a kind of unelected, permanent government, working behind the scenes with a complicated tangle of interests to control what gets done in their part of the state and beyond. 
 While acting as emissaries between regulated businesses and the office holders who regulate them, the bosses amass millions of dollars in donations to distribute or withhold, as they see fit.

A System Dominated by Money
 And in a bit of New Jersey alchemy, many of the power brokers mix business and politics and make handsome profits for themselves -- often representing the special interests that tend to drive the problems that state residents find most troublesome: sprawl, pollution, sky-high property taxes and a culture of pay-to-play and patronage that drives up pension costs, say leaders of groups that are critical of the system.
 ''The way that New Jersey's political system runs now, it is so dominated by money and the powers and special interests who can use it for leverage, that ordinary citizens don't have a voice,'' said Harry Pozycki, who defied Mr. Lynch as a Middlesex County elected official years ago, and now heads the statewide watchdog group called the Citizens Campaign. ''And they don't have a chance unless things change.''
 As much as the term ''boss'' has been tossed around in recent years to describe New Jersey's political powerhouses, there remain widespread misconceptions about who they are. The bosses are not cigar-chomping cartoon villains, born in some back room then set loose to strangle the state in a web of money, power and influence. They are, in some cases, elected officials, such as Newark's Mayor Sharpe James, who is also a state senator, and State Senator Raymond Lesniak of Union County. In other cases, they hold neither elected office nor any official party position. Neither Mr. Lynch, for example, or George E. Norcross III, the Commerce Bank executive who operates a sprawling political empire from his base in Camden County, hold official party titles.
 Many have an impressive political and personal pedigree, and some can point to a substantial record of public service. Mr. Lynch, for example, is the son of a former State Senate president who grew up in New Jersey politics and polished his credentials by finishing fifth in his class at Georgetown University Law Center in 1975. He was elected mayor of New Brunswick, where he was widely lauded for reviving the blighted city. He served in the State Senate, winning respect for his unparalleled skill at balancing politics and policy, and followed in his father's footsteps to become Senate president in 1990. 
 He was even considered a likely candidate for governor as recently as the late 1980's, but those prospects dimmed when he married a woman whose brother, Louis Auricchio, was associated with the Genovese crime family and who later was convicted of a mob murder.
 Like other Democratic county leaders, Mr. Lynch has worked largely behind the scenes. But he was forced into the public eye in November when federal agents raided his business as part of a corruption inquiry. 
 The investigation has offered a glimpse of how closely Mr. Lynch has worked with developers, even before he retired from elective office in 2002. The New Jersey Legislature is considered a part-time job, and beginning in 1993, Mr. Lynch began supplementing his State Senate income by running a consulting firm named Executive Continental.
 Mr. Lynch explains Executive Continental's mission as helping developers win government approvals for their projects. If they succeed, the firm is paid a colorfully named ''success fee.'' 
 Federal investigators are now poring over the records of more than 50 deals involving strip malls, housing complexes, urban renewal plans and waterfront developments shepherded by Mr. Lynch and his partner in Executive Continental, Jack Westlake, according to court documents. 
 Mr. Lynch said that his work with developers is not only legal, but also good for the state because he promotes the kind of projects that help improve the communities, including providing badly needed housing for low and middle-income people. He described his role as a political ''choreographer'' who provides clients with nothing more than strategic advice. 
 ''I'm probably the most investigated person in New Jersey,'' said Mr. Lynch, 67, who still has the wiry build and bulldog tenacity of a welterweight. ''But anyone who says we were buying approvals or doing anything improper to help our clients get them is ridiculous.'' 
 Mr. Lynch also dismisses the suggestion that his work contributes to suburban sprawl, saying most of his projects are in cities or in the state's so-called transit villages in downtowns and represent smart growth.
 ''I'm not involved with paving over farmland or developing on open space,'' he said. ''The state has to have some development, so you try to achieve a balance. That's why I'm proud of what I'm doing.''
 But opponents of sprawl say a combination of campaign funds and political influence has driven New Jersey's penchant to build, helping to make it the most densely populated state in the nation. 
 ''When it comes to the pay-to-pave system of development in New Jersey, John Lynch is king,'' said Jeff Tittel, director of the New Jersey Sierra Club, which has opposed Mr. Lynch and his clients on dozens of development projects around New Jersey. ''In parts of the state, you can't build unless you hire one of the lawyers or engineers or construction companies he's aligned with because you won't get the government approvals.''

A Languishing Project No More
 One example of Mr. Lynch's converging interests is a strip mall in Brick, called The Power Center. It was originally proposed by Mr. Morris, a developer who frequently hosts Mr. Lynch on his yacht and jet and has given hundreds of thousands of dollars to his political committees. In 2003, Mr. Lynch was brought in as partner in the languishing project and soon his political action committee began donating tens of thousands of dollars to the mayor of Brick and other local Democrats. 
 The project, JSM at Brick, quickly won approval from local officials, and the town's mayor, Joseph Scarpelli, was hired as a consultant by an engineering firm working on the project. 
 Mr. Lynch said that their donations were a mere coincidence, unrelated to the development. Mr. Morris has declined to be interviewed over the last month. Mr. Scarpelli has explained that he did not know Mr. Lynch had a stake in the project and later quit the consulting position, saying he wanted to avoid a conflict of interest.
 In other projects, such as the JSM at Hickory project in Dover Township, Mr. Lynch does not have an ownership stake, but he and Mr. Morris together gave $65,000 in donations to mayoral candidate Paul Brush in early 2003. Once he was elected, Mr. Brush embraced the plan and appointed one of Mr. Lynch's allies to the local planning board. The project's newfound support on the local level helped JSM at Hickory win two state zoning changes, even though hundreds of community residents had rallied against the development. 
 Mr. Lynch said that the donations were intended solely to strengthen the Democratic Party, and had nothing to do with the development. 
 ''I don't even know where that project is,'' Mr. Lynch said during a recent interview.
 Mayor Brush said that his support for the proposal was based on its own merits. State officials said JSM at Hickory has been moving ahead because it will help the town meet its obligation to build affordable housing. 
 But some local residents say they feel as if local officials sacrificed their quality of life for campaign contributions.
 ''It was stopped until they came through with all the money,'' said Frank Kenny, who organized community opposition to the plan. ''Then it was like we didn't even exist.''

'Wheeling' Across New Jersey
 At the center of Mr. Lynch's political network is his political action committee, New Directions for Responsible Leadership, which raises and distributes hundreds of thousands of dollars, much of it from developers and government contractors. State election records show that since 2000, the PAC has distributed $3.1 million across the state, sometimes funneling it from one county to another , a practice known as ''wheeling,'' which allows donors to legally give more than the $37,500 limit. Mr. Lynch has discretion over how that money is distributed, with the flexibility to reward those he favors and punish those who stand in the way of his agenda.
 But Mr. Lynch's lawyer, Jack Arseneault, said Mr. Lynch was civic-minded in allocating campaign money.
 ''He's not one of those old-style political bosses who call up and try to affect policy just to line their pockets,'' Mr. Arseneault said. ''I don't think you can find a single instance where John Lynch has directly interfaced with government officials on his own in order to financially benefit his pockets or his clients.''
 Those politicians he favors can benefit handsomely. James E. McGreevey was a green, little-known state senator from Woodbridge in the early 1990's when Mr. Lynch recognized his intelligence and discipline as a campaigner and adopted him as a protege and potential gubernatorial candidate. 
 After Mr. McGreevey was elected governor in 2001, Mr. Lynch continued in his role as strategist and helped to choose key cabinet members and chart the administration's agenda.
 The current investigation into Mr. Lynch's business actually stems from a deal that took place in the months between Mr. McGreevey's election and inauguration, when two of Mr. McGreevey's aides used their positions on his transition team to pump up the value of a billboard company they sold at a $2 million profit. Federal investigators are examining whether their actions were a conflict of interest, and in the course of that inquiry began looking at Mr. Lynch's influence in the administration. 
 In an interview, Mr. Lynch revealed that his firm, Executive Continental, received a small consulting fee when one of the billboards was sold.

Unfettered Access to Power
 After the inauguration, Mr. Lynch could frequently be seen walking into the governor's office to discuss appointments, budget matters, development projects and other state business. One of Mr. Lynch's law partners, Al Kroll, was named labor commissioner, helping the firm's efforts to gain prestige and attract clients among unions. 
 As Mr. McGreevey became hobbled by a variety of self-inflicted political wounds, his relationship with Mr. Lynch soured. In 2003, Mr. McGreevey distanced himself from his former mentor and Mr. Lynch began to publicly criticize the governor he had helped create. 
 ''He was more concerned with being liked than being respected,'' Mr. Lynch said at the time. ''And you just can't lead that way.''
 Mr. McGreevey, who resigned in August 2004 amid a sex scandal, did not respond to requests for an interview.
 But for all the criticism Mr. Lynch has received, there are those who insist he is simply playing by the free-wheeling rules of New Jersey politics, and being singled out because he has been so successful.
 Joseph Ferriero, the Bergen County Democratic chairman, said it is unfair that he, Mr. Lynch and other Democratic leaders are maligned for aiding developers, who play a crucial role in the state's economy by providing affordable housing and creating tens of thousands of jobs.
 ''It's no different than a congressman lobbying for a defense contract in his district or supporting farmers in a rural district,'' Mr. Ferriero said. ''A county chairman tries to take care of his own constituency. And John tries to do what's best for the people in his county and the whole state.''
 Since Mr. Lynch's falling-out with Mr. McGreevey, many Democratic insiders say that he has become somewhat withdrawn from public life. He has suffered from a back ailment and prostate cancer. Mr. Lynch and his wife, Deborah, are also busy building a rambling estate in Lawrenceville, near the New Jersey governor's mansion, which is said to have a room large enough to seat 100. (''It's Deborah's house,'' he said. ''You'll have to ask her.'')
 He played almost no role in Mr. Corzine's governor's race, and many aides to Mr. Corzine privately questioned his support. Mr. Lynch said he is willing to back Mr. Corzine as he embarks on an ambitious new agenda to close the budget gap, lower property taxes and curb the influence of money in politics.
 ''If Jon Corzine wants to do the right thing, and lead, I'll be behind him all the way,'' Mr. Lynch said. 

Power Brokers
 Articles in this series are examining Democratic Party leaders in New Jersey who wield influence on a variety of issues.


GRAPHIC: Photos: John A. Lynch Jr. is one of the most influential power brokers in New Jersey. Federal agents raided his business late last year as part of a corruption investigation. (Photo by Aaron Houston for The New York Times)
 Frank Kenny, an opponent of a condominium construction project in Dover Township, said an influx of money to local politicians had overcome public opposition. (Photo by David Hunsinger for The New York Times)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ETHICS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ZONING (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (69%) Housing; Ethics; Elections; Governors (US)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (79%) David Kocieniewski; John A Jr Lynch; Jon S (Sen) Corzine; James E Mcgreevey; Joseph (Mayor) Scarpelli; Paul (Mayor) Brush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey; Dover Township (NJ); Toms River (NJ); Brick (NJ); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



36 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 01-01-06: IDEA LAB; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Are Democracies Really More Peaceful?

BYLINE: By Gary J. Bass. 
Gary J. Bass, an associate professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton, is writing a book about humanitarian intervention.

 BODY:
In his second inaugural address, President George W. Bush proclaimed that ''the survival of liberty in our land increasingly depends on the success of liberty in other lands. The best hope for peace in our world is the expansion of freedom in all the world.'' Behind these lofty words lies one of the most powerful ideas in international relations. Neoconservative pundits like William Kristol and Lawrence F. Kaplan put the point plainly when they called for toppling Saddam Hussein because of ''a truth of international politics: democracies rarely, if ever, wage war against one another.'' 
The original author of this idea was Immanuel Kant. In ''To Perpetual Peace,'' Kant argued that a world made up of republics, whose citizens must bear the miseries of fighting and financing wars, should be more peaceful than a world made up of monarchies, whose kings can go to war with little personal risk. (In a rare Kantian joke, the essay is written in the form of a peace treaty, with preliminary and definitive articles of perpetual peace.) In the 1980's, political scientists began looking for empirical evidence that Kant's prophecy had come true. Michael W. Doyle wrote that a separate ''zone of peace'' existed among liberal states, underpinning America's alliances with NATO and Japan. Although the notion has been subjected to fierce scrutiny, most scholars agree that a liberal peace exists -- and that it offers a way to end the age-old scourge of war. The theory has been endorsed by leaders like Margaret Thatcher and Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and it played a role in the Clinton administration's efforts to create a worldwide ''community of democracies.'' 
 Yet for all its influence, the theory of the democratic peace carries a crucial caveat. In a series of studies culminating in their new book, ''Electing to Fight,'' the political scientists Edward D. Mansfield and Jack Snyder argue that new democracies are often unstable and thus particularly warlike. Mansfield and Snyder note that democratizing countries often lack the rule of law, organized political parties and professional news media. Without those restraining institutions firmly in place, empowering the public can mean empowering bellicose nationalists. As communism crumbled in Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic in Serbia and Franjo Tudjman in Croatia used populist nationalism to fuel their rise to power -- and to start a blood bath. 
 Mansfield and Snyder try to prove that young democracies without fully formed domestic institutions are especially aggressive; their examples range from France's disastrous 1870 attack on Prussia to Turkey's 1974 invasion of Cyprus to Vladimir Putin's continuing brutal clampdown in Chechnya. At best, scholars agree, the democratic peace exists only when established liberal democracies face one another. Confronting nondemocracies, established democracies are about as warlike as normal dictatorships. Think of Britain, France and Israel's attacking Egypt in 1956, or Bush's invasion of Iraq. When a democratic government squabbles with a dictator, it often doesn't trust the dictator enough for serious negotiations, and war is a likely result. Elihu Root, who'd been Theodore Roosevelt's secretary of state, said in 1917: ''To be safe, democracy must kill its enemy when it can and where it can. The world. . . must be all democratic or all Prussian.''
 The Bush administration might applaud Root's statement, but it's no small task to make the world ''all democratic.'' Mansfield and Snyder cite writers like Samuel P. Huntington, who gingerly emphasizes that democratization works best in proper sequence: first establishing functioning institutions -- political parties, courts -- and then allowing widespread elections. Poland and Chile democratized successfully, Mansfield and Snyder say, but Iraq, it seems, has not. They warn that ''unleashing Islamic mass opinion through a sudden democratization could only raise the likelihood of war.'' China, too, proves worrisome, lacking as it does political pluralism, a reliable rule of law or a professional free press. Greater political freedom -- a longstanding American goal -- could at worst empower more aggressive leaders in a nuclear-armed economic powerhouse.
 Like many skeptics of democratization, Mansfield and Snyder may overestimate the stability of the authoritarians. Young democracies can be bellicose, but it's hard to imagine many regimes more threatening to their neighbors than Saddam Hussein's. The authors also appear to strain their argument when they suggest that Milosevic's decision to crack down on the Kosovars was driven by his anxieties over winning a future election, or that Iraq's faltering experiments in parliamentary democracy helped drive its 1948 attack on Israel. (After all, many Arab authoritarians also attacked.) And yet their work should give pause. If democracy is to promise peace -- perpetual or otherwise -- we must become far better at laying its foundations.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hurry-Up Democracy: Counting ballots in Fallujah, Iraq, Dec. 16, 2005. (Photograph by Mohammed Khodor/Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); WRITERS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%) International Relations; War and Revolution; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) Gary J Bass; Saddam Hussein; Edward D Mansfield; Jack Snyder

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); TURKEY (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); CROATIA (79%); CYPRUS (79%); SERBIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); FRANCE (76%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



37 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: A Bit of Doodling About a Tax-Cut Danger

BYLINE: By Daniel Altman

 BODY:
EARLY last month, without much fanfare, the Congressional Budget Office released a paper called ''Analyzing the Economic and Budgetary Effects of a 10 Percent Cut in Income Tax Rates.'' At a modest seven pages, it didn't elicit the same sort of interest as the budget office's budgetary and economic outlooks. Yet it may be one of the most important government publications in years.
 As Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, the budget office's director, writes in a brief summary at the beginning of the paper, most predictions of the effects of tax-rate changes ''do not include the budgetary impact of any possible macroeconomic effects of tax policies.'' In other words, the predictions don't take into account how tax cuts could affect the overall size of the economy. It is this omission -- one often cited by proponents of tax cuts, especially in the White House -- that the paper tries to correct. 
The author of the analysis, Ben Page, estimates how an across-the-board cut in income tax rates could generate higher levels of economic activity, potentially replacing lost tax revenue. The theory behind these feedback effects is well worn: putting money back into taxpayers' pockets will let them spend more and save more, raising demand for goods and services and helping companies to invest for the future.
 Mr. Page assumes that government spending will continue as planned for a decade after the tax cuts. He also creates different possibilities based on various assumptions about people's foresight, the mobility of capital and the ways in which the federal government might make up for the lost revenue when the decade is up -- either by cutting spending or by raising taxes again. Finally, he compares the budget office's figures to those of two private forecasting firms, Global Insight and Macroeconomic Advisers.
 Like many predictions in economics, Mr. Page's vary widely depending on his assumptions -- this stuff is more like weather forecasting than Newtonian physics. But even within their range, the results answer the fundamental question posed by the Laffer Curve.
 Arthur B. Laffer, an economist and sometime adviser to President Ronald Reagan, noted that when tax rates are zero, the government collects no revenue. He also noted that when tax rates are 100 percent, the same might be true: no one would work, he theorized. In between, along the curve he famously scribbled on a napkin, the amount of revenue collected first rises along with tax rates. Then, after a crucial point is passed, it falls back to zero, as it must under his theory.
 One motivation for Mr. Reagan's tax cuts was a guess that the United States was on the right side of the curve -- that is, that lowering rates would actually yield more tax revenue over all. Some recent statements by Joshua B. Bolten, President Bush's current budget director, seem to indicate that he still believes this to be true, though rates are much lower now than when Mr. Reagan took office in 1981.
 In July 2003, Mr. Bolten said this at a press conference: ''All economists, I think, will agree very strongly that when you reduce taxes, put more money back into the economy, that has a feedback effect in the economy that causes growth'' and in turn ''increases receipts.'' He added that he wanted ''to see how much better the government's fiscal situation is as a result of the tax cuts.''
 The recent analysis by Mr. Page at the Congressional Budget Office dismisses the idea that tax cuts may actually improve the government's fiscal situation. Even in his most generous scenario, only 28 percent of lost tax revenue is recouped over a 10-year period. The United States, it seems, is firmly planted on the left side of the Laffer Curve.
 Recent experience corroborates this prediction. In the second quarter of 2001, just before the first of President Bush's tax cuts took effect, federal receipts from personal taxes accounted for 10.3 percent of the economy. By the end of the post-recession slump, receipts had dropped to 6.4 percent. But in the third quarter of 2005, with the economy booming, they were still under 7.5 percent -- an enormous difference. In dollar terms, federal receipts from personal income taxes, at $802 billion in 2004, are still lower than they were in 1998 ($826 billion) and much lower than in 2001 ($994 billion).
 By itself, this reduced tax burden may seem like a good thing to people who don't buy Mr. Bolten's argument but still want a smaller government. But it's possible to view tax cuts' costs and benefits in more detail.
 Shortfalls in revenue cause the government to borrow more, so money intended for other purposes must be paid as interest instead. Even in Mr. Page's most generous picture, the federal government would probably have to pay an extra $200 billion in interest over the decade covered by his analysis.
 On the other hand, Mr. Page estimates that gross national product would be an average of about 1 percent higher, adjusted for prices, as a result of the 10 percent cut in tax rates. Based on the August forecast by the budget office, that extra income would come to slightly less than $1.5 trillion in today's dollars. In Mr. Page's analysis, consumers would also pay about $900 billion less in taxes. Over all, they'd have up to $2.4 trillion more to spend during the decade he analyzed.
 THE tax cuts' benefits would be whatever pleasures that individuals could attain with that money. The initial costs would be the absence of whatever useful things the government would have done with the $200 billion it had to pay in interest. The later costs would be the pleasures or useful things the nation would have to forgo in the future, when it was time to pay its debts.
 For many people, this may sound like a slam dunk, especially if they don't care what happens after the next decade. But keep going in this direction, and pretty soon the federal government would be collecting no taxes and trying to borrow enough money to cover its entire budget. It's doubtful that many people would want to lend to a government with no source of revenue for 10 years.
 Call it the Altman Curve: the total amount that people will actually lend you rises with the amount you plan to borrow, until you reach a crucial point, after which it falls to zero. The United States is now on the left side of the curve. If Congress keeps cutting taxes by more than it cuts spending, the nation will eventually move to the right side, which, of course, is the wrong side.


GRAPHIC: Photo: NOT THE LAFFER CURVE -- Could there be a point where lenders will refuse government requests to borrow more money?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (71%); WRITERS (70%); WEATHER (70%) Taxation

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (52%) Daniel Altman; Ben Page

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



38 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; White House Memo; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1596 words

HEADLINE: President Uses Vacation to Prepare Agenda for 2006

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., Dec. 31 

 BODY:
For six days, President Bush has stayed in nearly complete isolation on his ranch here -- just mountain-biking and brush-clearing, the White House insisted daily, with only one guest, his mother-in-law, Jenna Welch. He never even ventured into this little town of about 700, not even to the cheeseburger joint that he often used as a political stage to show that he is in touch with his Texas neighbors.
 But on New Year's Day, after a brief stop at an Army hospital in San Antonio to visit wounded soldiers, Mr. Bush is scheduled to return to the White House earlier than usual from his break and start a campaign to set the tone for 2006 and, perhaps, the remainder of his presidency.
As part of an ambitious strategy the White House has mapped out for the next four weeks, Mr. Bush has scheduled two major speeches -- one on the economy on Friday in Chicago, another on Iraq -- ahead of the State of the Union address, which is tentatively scheduled for Jan. 31. 
 By the time he appears before Congress, Mr. Bush's aides are hoping, two of the immediate challenges the president faces, the Supreme Court confirmation hearings of Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. and the permanent renewal of the Patriot Act, will be behind him.
 And on Thursday at the White House, he will meet with previous secretaries of state and defense to try to make the case that after the recent raucous debate over Iraq, there are fewer differences than meet the eye on what to do there next. 
 It is a theme that his national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, struck in a little-noted speech on Dec. 20 in which he described the ''common ground'' that has emerged on training Iraqi forces and building a cohesive government there. 
 ''We've listened to our critics and are already pursuing many of their proposals,'' he insisted, though he drew the line, as Mr. Bush has, at pulling out troops prematurely. Mr. Bush is expected to hit the same themes. 
 After his days of silence here, Mr. Bush on Saturday began to give the country a taste of the tone he has in mind. In his New Year's radio address he argued that in Iraq, American forces were ''overcoming earlier setbacks'' -- another reference to errors in Iraq since the invasion that he was long loath to acknowledge. But he began to do so last month, a decision that White House officials now boast was the key to reversing the worst slide in his approval ratings since the beginning of his presidency. Mr. Bush also said that after the Dec. 15 Iraqi election, whose results are still in flux, the country was on its way to ''an inclusive, unified and lasting democracy.''
 On the economic front he insisted that, even with tax cuts, his government was ''staying on track to cut the deficit in half by 2009,'' but he made no mention of the fact that his Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, asked Congress on Thursday to raise the debt limit again, the fourth time in Mr. Bush's presidency, so that the government can borrow more money, largely for increases in military and entitlement programs.
 But the deficit may be only one of the gathering clouds in his dealings with a Republican Congress that has been uncommonly unruly in recent months. Though Mr. Bush avoided the subject in his radio address, some of his advisers and national security officials say the White House has decided in the past two weeks to take a hard line with Congressional inquiries into Mr. Bush's secret authorization of wiretaps without warrants on suspects within the United States. 
 The White House's effort to deflect a Congressional investigation into a secret executive order he issued in 2002 authorizing domestic spying follows a strategy Mr. Bush tried -- and ultimately retreated from -- in the controversies over why he claimed Saddam Hussein was seeking uranium in Africa and what kind of warnings the White House received about Al Qaeda's ambitions before the Sept. 11 attacks. Mr. Bush's aides and intelligence officials say they plan to refuse to offer more details in public on why they believe the technology of the program made it necessary to bypass the secret court designed to authorize wiretapping efforts inside the United States. They are preparing to dispute vigorously and quite publicly the broader legal critique, offered by some Democrats, the American Civil Liberties Union and some Republicans, that the president acted beyond his authority as commander in chief. 
 ''We're not going to shy away from this debate,'' Mr. Bush's counselor, Dan Bartlett, said on Friday from Washington.
 In interviews over the past week, Mr. Bush's aides said they were convinced that Mr. Bush's decision to admit that he authorized the program -- and then to say little about its details -- would be enough to keep an increasingly fractious Republican majority in line. 
 But they are clearly worried about the minor revolt among Republicans in both the House and the Senate that forced Mr. Bush to accept an amendment authored by Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican, setting in law a commitment that American interrogators would not employ ''cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment'' of detainees anywhere in the world. The administration had vigorously opposed the amendment, which Mr. Bush signed into law on Friday. He said he was satisfied by additional language assuring that interrogators could not be sued by terror suspects.
 Some of Mr. Bush's advisers say they believe that revolt was partly the result of weak leadership in the House, where Representative Tom DeLay has stepped down from his leadership position while under indictment, and in the Senate, where Mr. Bush was abandoned by leaders of his own party on the McCain amendment. 
 But they see in Judge Alito's confirmation battle and the USA Patriot Act a chance to rally both their base and queasy senators. A senior administration official, speaking on the condition that he not be named because he was describing a strategy still in motion, said that advisers believed that while the fight over Judge Alito would be much fiercer than the battle to confirm Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., ''we're now convinced we'll prevail, probably pretty quickly.'' 
 Winning passage of the Patriot Act, however, will be trickier, especially at a moment that the president is accused of circumventing existing law that places checks on the administration's power to trace and monitor calls inside American borders. Two officials said that discussions were under way about beefing up some form of Congressional oversight of investigations conducted under the Patriot Act, in hopes that that will bring enough moderate Republicans on board to win passage. Mr. Bush reluctantly agreed to a five-week extension of the existing law, which he signed this week.
 ''At this point, one of the keys for the president's strategy, I suspect, is to look for an early success, and build on that,'' said Fred Greenstein, a Princeton professor who has written extensively on Mr. Bush's strategy.
 But there is also considerable risk for a president who only a month ago found his approval ratings hovering around 35 percent. They have bounced back up after his series of Iraq speeches and, as White House officials note, the rapid decline in gasoline prices. A New York Times/CBS News Poll conducted Dec. 2-6 put his approval rating at 40 percent, up from 35 percent a month before, while an ABC News/Washington Post poll conducted Dec. 15-18 showed an increase to 47 percent, up from 39 percent in early November.
 Nonetheless, his options are limited by Iraq, where there is still concern that some Republicans may join the call for a pullout as midterm elections approach, and the fact that the moment appears to have passed for big initiatives that were a cornerstone of his re-election campaign, including an overhaul of the Social Security system.
 William Kristol, the editor of the conservative Weekly Standard, who helped lead the Republican revolt that forced Mr. Bush to withdraw Harriet E. Miers as a nominee for the Supreme Court in the fall, said that in most years January was a month for planning the State of the Union speech and laying out the year's agenda. But this January, he said, is different.
 ''The notion that Bush could or should unveil a new domestic agenda at the State of the Union speech is really ridiculous,'' Mr. Kristol said. ''He has to play the cards he has been dealt and play a winning hand with those cards,'' on issues including the war in Iraq, the linked debate over the Patriot Act and wiretapping at home, and the Alito nomination.
 Mr. Kristol argued that the president had already come back substantially from October, when he was mired by the slow response to Hurricane Katrina, then by the Miers nomination, and then the indictment of White House aide I. Lewis Libby.
 ''It looked like he was really reeling, but I think he has righted the boat,'' Mr. Kristol said.
 And he contended that by equating withdrawal with defeat, Mr. Bush had for now beaten back the movement that crested a few weeks ago when Representative John P. Murtha, Democrat of Pennsylvania, called for some form of a pullout from Iraq. 
 Others agree. ''I think that the Democrats made a huge miscalculation with the Murtha speech. It moved the debate from 'Did the president lie?' to 'What do we do now?' '' said Charles Cook, who publishes an independent political newsletter. ''And that moved the spotlight from a horrible place for the president to not a bad place at all.'' But depending on events Mr. Bush cannot control, he said, that change may be ''only for a while.'' 


CORRECTION-DATE: January 7, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A White House Memo article on Sunday about President Bush's vacation and plans for 2006 included erroneous information from a White House news briefing about visitors to the Bush ranch during the holidays. After entertaining Laura Bush's mother, Jenna Welch, the Bushes later invited six longtime friends from Texas for New Year's Eve, according to information released by the White House after the Bushes returned to Washington. Mrs. Welch was not the only holiday visitor.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, leaving Washington on Dec. 22, is scheduled to return to the capital today, earlier than usual. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PATRIOT ACT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (77%); ARMIES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (74%); CYCLING (73%); TERRORISM (70%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); WIRETAPPING (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%) United States Politics and Government; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Wiretapping and Other Eavesdropping Devices and Methods; United States Politics and Government; Surveillance of Citizens by Government; Telephones and Telecommunications; Computers and the Internet; Privacy; Law and Legislation; State of the Union Message (US); Appointments and Executive Changes; Search and Seizure

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (59%) Supreme Court (US); National Security Agency; Supreme Court (US) ; Supreme Court (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SAMUEL ALITO (79%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; Samuel A Jr (Judge) Alito; Samuel (Judge) Alito; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%) Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006



39 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1659 words

HEADLINE: China's Youth Look to Seoul For Inspiration

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
At Korea City, on the top floor of the Xidan Shopping Center, a warren of tiny shops sell hip-hop clothes, movies, music, cosmetics and other offerings in the South Korean style.
 To young Chinese shoppers, it seemed not to matter that some of the products, like New York Yankees caps or Japan's Astro Boy dolls, clearly have little to do with South Korea. Or that most items originated, in fact, in Chinese factories.
 ''We know that the products at Korea City are made in China,'' said Wang Ying, 28, who works for the local branch of an American company. ''But to many young people, 'Korea' stands for fashionable or stylish. So they copy the Korean style.''
 From clothes to hairstyle, music to television dramas, South Korea has been defining the tastes of many Chinese and other Asians for the past half decade. As part of what the Chinese call the Korean Wave of pop culture, a television drama about a royal cook, ''The Jewel in the Palace,'' is garnering record ratings throughout Asia, and Rain, a 23-year-old singer from Seoul, drew more than 40,000 fans to a sold-out concert at a sports stadium here in October. 
 But South Korea's ''soft power'' also extends to the material and spiritual spheres. Samsung's cellphones and televisions are symbols of a coveted consumerism for many Chinese. Christianity, in the evangelical form championed by Korean missionaries deployed throughout China, is finding Chinese converts despite Beijing's efforts to rein in the spread of the religion. South Korea acts as a filter for Western values, experts say, making them more palatable to Chinese and other Asians.
 For a country that has been influenced by other cultures, especially China but also Japan and America, South Korea finds itself at a turning point in its new role as exporter. 
 The transformation began with South Korea's democratization in the late 1980's, which unleashed sweeping domestic changes. As its democracy and economy have matured, its influence on the rest of Asia, negligible until a decade ago, has grown accordingly. Its cultural exports have even caused complaints about cultural invasion in China and Vietnam.
 Historically, Christianity made little headway in East Asia, except in South Korea, whose population is now about 30 percent Christian and whose overseas missionary movement is the world's second largest after the United States. 
 Today, in China, South Korean missionaries are bringing Christianity with an Asian face. South Korean movies and dramas about urban professionals in Seoul, though not overtly political, present images of modern lives centering on individual happiness and sophisticated consumerism.
 They also show enduring Confucian-rooted values in their emphasis on family relations, offering to Chinese both a reminder of what was lost during the Cultural Revolution and an example of an Asian country that has modernized and retained its traditions.
 ''Three Guys and Three Girls'' and ''Three Friends'' are South Korea's homegrown version of the American TV show ''Friends.'' As for ''Sex and the City,'' its South Korean twin, ''The Marrying Type,'' a sitcom about three single professional women in their 30's looking for love in Seoul, was so popular in China that episodes were illegally downloaded or sold on pirated DVD's.
 ''We feel that we can see a modern lifestyle in those shows,'' said Qu Yuan, 23, a student at Tsinghua University here. ''American dramas also show the same kind of lifestyle. We know that South Korea and America have similar political systems and economies. But it's easier to accept that lifestyle from South Koreans because they are culturally closer to us. We feel we can live like them in a few years.''
 ''They seem to have similar lifestyles,'' Ms. Qu said. ''They have friends and go to bars. They have good mobile phones and good cars and lead comfortable lives.''
 Her classmate, Huo Kan, 23, said, ''American dramas are too modern.''
 Ms. Qu said, ''They're postmodern.'' 
 Ms. Huo added, ''Something like 'Sex and the City' is too alien to us.'' 
 Jin Yaxi, 25, a graduate student at Beijing University, said, ''We like American culture, but we can't accept it directly.''
 ''And there is no obstacle to our accepting South Korean culture, unlike Japanese culture,'' said Ms. Jin, who has studied both Korean and Japanese. ''Because of the history between China and Japan, if a young person here likes Japanese culture, the parents will get angry.''
 Politics also seems to underlie the Chinese preference for South Korean-filtered American hip-hop culture. Messages about rebelliousness, teenage angst and freedom appear more palatable to Chinese in their Koreanized versions.
 Kwon Ki Joon, 22, a South Korean who attends Beijing University and graduated from a Chinese high school here, said his male Chinese friends were fans of South Korea hip-hop bands, like H.O.T., and its song ''We Are the Future.'' A sample of the song's lyrics translate roughly as: ''We are still under the shadows of adults/Still not Free/To go through the day with all sorts of interferences is tiring.'' 
 To Mr. Kwon, there is no mystery about the band's appeal. ''It's about wanting a more open world, about rebelliousness,'' he said. ''Korean hip-hop is basically trying to adapt American hip-hop.''
 Like many South Koreans, Oh Dong Suk, 40, an investor in online games here, said he believed that South Korea's pop culture was a fruit of the country's democratization. ''If you watch South Korean movies from the 1970's or 1980's, you could feel that it was a controlled society,'' Mr. Oh said.
 Hwang In Choul, 35, a South Korean missionary here, also sees a direct link between South Korea's democratization and its influence in China. After restrictions on travel outside South Korea were lifted in the late 1980's, South Korea's missionary movement grew from several hundred to its current size of 14,000 missionaries.
 Mr. Hwang, who since 2000 has trained 50 Chinese pastors to proselytize, is among the 1,500 South Korean missionaries evangelizing in China, usually secretly.
 ''Under military rule, it was simply not possible to come out of South Korea, and even our activities inside the country were monitored,'' Mr. Hwang said. ''We had the potential to be missionaries out in the world, but we were constrained. We had the passion, but we couldn't express our passion.''
 Until South Korea and China, enemies during the Korean War, normalized relations in 1992, North Korea had a stronger presence here, with its embassy, restaurants and shops. Back then, South Korea remained unknown to most Chinese, or suffered from a poor image.
 ''If a Japanese television set stopped working, the Chinese would say something's wrong with the power lines,'' said Ohn Dae Sung, the manager of a Korean restaurant, Suboksung, who has been here since 1993. ''If a South Korean television set stopped working, they'd say it was the fault of the set.''
 The Korean Wave has been gathering for some time, with its roots traceable to several developments, including the Seoul Olympics in 1988. The first civilian president was elected in 1992, ending nearly 32 years of military rule and ushering in tumultuous change. 
 A newly confident South Korea has pursued an increasingly independent foreign policy, often to Washington's displeasure, warming up to China and to North Korea. Social changes that took decades elsewhere were compressed into a few years, as new freedoms yielded a rich civil society, but also caused strains between generations and the sexes, leading to one of the world's highest divorce rates and lowest birth rates.
 As South Korea quickly became the world's most wired nation, new online news sites challenged the conservative mainstream media's monopoly; press clubs, a Japanese colonial legacy that controlled the flow of news, were weakened or eliminated. Unlike other Asian nations, South Korea has tackled head-on taboo subjects in its society, including the legacy of military rule and collaboration during Japanese colonial rule.
 Here, at a computer center on a recent evening, young Chinese could be seen playing South Korean online games. Cyworld, the largest online community service in South Korea, is announcing its arrival in China by plastering ads on city buses.
 Thanks to the Korean Wave and South Korea's new image, being Korean helps business.
 ''I'm sure there is a connection, though we don't have exact figures,'' Jim Sohn, the chief executive of LG Electronics China, said in an interview inside the company's brand new $400 million headquarters here.
 Another company that has benefited from the Korean Wave's ''positive effect'' is Hyundai, said Um Kwang Heum, president of its Chinese division. Though a latecomer to China, Hyundai signed a joint venture agreement with Beijing Automotive Industry Holdings in 2002 and has already become No. 2 in sales among automakers in China.
 Thanks to its local partner, Hyundai's cars have been chosen by the Beijing government to replace the city's aging taxis before the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Hyundai Elantras will make up most of the city's taxi fleet in time for the Olympics, which are expected to be a turning point for China, just as they signaled South Korea's entry onto the world stage in 1988 and postwar Japan's in 1964.
 For all of South Korea's influence in China, though, few Chinese expect the Olympics and democratization to dovetail as they did in Seoul.
 A local television production company, Beijing Modern English Film and TV Culture, proposed a Korean-language program for adults in 2004 but was rejected 10 times by the Chinese authorities for unexplained reasons. Eventually, it successfully pitched a cartoon, ''Happy Imitation of Korean Sentences.''
 ''As long as it was a kids' show, it was O.K.,'' said Sun Hogan, a producer at the company.
 ''The government,'' he added, ''is definitely a little nervous about the popularity of the Korean Wave.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: At Korea City in the Xidan Shopping Center in Beijing, shops offer a taste of South Korean styles. (Photo by Miranda Mimi Kuo for The New York Times)(pg. A7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); MUSIC (90%); RETAILERS (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (89%); RELIGION (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (89%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); RAP MUSIC (78%); COSMETICS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); BASEBALL (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SAMSUNG GROUP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); CHINA (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006



40 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2596 words

HEADLINE: At 150 Edgars Lane, Changing the Idea of Home

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The handsome Tudor-style home at 150 Edgars Lane, built for less than $10,000 in 1925 on a hillside in this Hudson River town, never seemed to change much through all of its previous owners. Each family updated the house, but in modest ways until Tom and Julie Hirschfeld came along.
 The Hirschfelds purchased the two-story house with its gabled roof and stucco-and-wood-beam exterior for $890,000 in the fall of 2002. Good schools, safe streets, a picturesque community, like-minded neighbors, a relatively short commute to New York -- all these drew the family, just as they drew the previous owners.
But as home prices have soared in recent years, houses like this one have become not just nice places to live but remarkably valuable investments as well. Responding to this newly embedded wealth, the Hirschfelds, like hundreds of thousands of other families living in suburbs of cities like New York, Chicago and San Francisco, have transformed their homes into something grander and more personal. 
 Tracing the history of the house at 150 Edgars Lane through the decades shows how the Hirschfelds have broken with the past -- and how the idea of what a house means to a family has changed. Eight different families have lived in this house for at least a year. Most were middle-income earners in their day: a high school principal, a typographer, a civil engineer, a psychiatrist, an environmentalist, small businessmen.
 In contrast to the previous owners, the Hirschfelds have poured many thousands of dollars into renovation, making their home more comfortable and well-appointed than the earlier owners considered necessary. And more so than the others, they can certainly afford it.
 As the chief operating officer of a hedge fund, Mr. Hirschfeld has plenty of income to sink into renovation without going into debt. The couple has not held back. Lifting the house to their standards has become so important to them that between the purchase price and the outlays for improvements, Mr. Hirschfeld says, the investment exceeds his home's current market value, estimated at $1.2 million.
 Juliet B. Schor, a Boston College sociologist and the author of ''The Overspent American,'' classifies the burst of spending on home improvement in recent years as ''competitive consumption going on in the top 20 percent of the income distribution.''
 But many home owners, the Hirschfelds among them, insist that quite apart from status and comfort, what was once mainly a dwelling in a compatible suburb now assumes even greater personal importance in an age when families increasingly focus on themselves.
 ''Community is still very important,'' said William M. Rohe, director of the Center for Urban and Regional Studies at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. ''But homeowners today pay greater attention to the house itself as an expression of themselves and as a haven for family life.''
 For the Hirschfelds, a spacious new kitchen wing that juts into the backyard of their property embodies their sense of how they want their home to enhance their lives. Finished a year ago, the kitchen has become a gathering place not just for cooking and meals, but for homework, games, art projects, reading and conversation with the Hirschfelds' children, Ben, 12, and Leila, 8. 
 ''We didn't build this kitchen for any trophy motivation or to achieve any level of luxury,'' Mr. Hirschfeld said, pointing out that the appliances, including the refrigerator and stove, are ordinary off-the-floor models, not state-of-the-art extravaganzas. ''We did it to make our family life more free-flowing and warm.''
 The yard was not suitable for the new kitchen wing, however. So a stone retaining wall went up to carve more flat space from the sloping land -- unexpectedly adding thousands of dollars to renovation costs.
 The Hirschfelds also spent more than planned to reverse the deterioration of their 80-year-old house -- one of the tens of thousands built during the nation's first great suburban housing boom, before the Depression. 
 ''We really bought this to be our family home,'' Mrs. Hirschfeld said, ''and we made an error in judgment in not knowing what it would cost to deal with the deterioration.'' But the basement, she added, which ''was wet for 40 years, is no longer wet.''
 Before the Hirschfelds, each of the previous owners made incremental improvements, spreading renovation over their years in residence rather than bunching it at the beginning. Mostly those earlier owners lived with the house's shortcomings, including the cramped kitchen, now converted into a mud room. 

Wealthy Buyers Move In
 The Hirschfelds, in their early 40's, were less constrained by income, an increasingly common characteristic of the households engaged in home improvement. Those with at least $120,000 in annual income accounted for 32 percent of all the spending on home renovation in 2003, the latest year for which data is available. That is up from 21 percent in 1995, adjusted for inflation, according to the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard. The spending itself reached $233 billion in 2003, a rise of 52 percent from 1995. 
 For decades, a home in the suburbs was a family haven for the middle class, ''a kind of anchor in the heavy seas of urban life,'' as Kenneth T. Jackson, a Columbia University historian, put it in his 1985 book ''Crabgrass Frontier.''
 That was true of the owners of 150 Edgars Lane. But with the surge in home prices, the big side yard took on a new dimension as a potentially valuable building plot. It was no longer cherished as the colorful, terraced flower garden nurtured by several former owners and written up admiringly in the local newspaper.
 The objections of neighbors stopped the owner of the house in 2001, a woman who had received it in a divorce settlement, from obtaining a zoning variance so that she could split off the old flower garden and sell the property as two lots for more than the $819,000 that she finally received. 
 With that sale, the house moved out of the reach of middle-income buyers. The buyer, Matthew Stover, came from Wall Street, and he soon sold the house to Mr. Hirschfeld, also from Wall Street. 
 Still, the Stovers and the Hirschfelds, like nearly all of the owners before them, came to Hastings from apartments in New York City, choosing the town in part because it offered a demographic mix greater than many other suburbs, as well as neighbors who were often artists, writers and academics.
 The intellectual aura was particularly present on Edgars Lane. Margaret Sanger, an early leader of the birth control movement, lived across the street from 150, and Lewis Hine, the famous photographer of industrial realism, owned the house two doors up. They are long gone, but the Hirschfelds, who received graduate degrees from Oxford after going to college in the United States, are proud of this legacy.
 ''We really wanted to live in Hastings,'' Mr. Hirschfeld said. 

Suburban Diversity
 The homes that made this town a suburb went up in the woody hills above Broadway. Below that dividing street, blue-collar workers, many of them Polish and Italian immigrants, occupied the apartments and row houses near the waterfront, close to the chemical plant and the copper mill that employed them, until the last factory closed in 1975.
 The children of those workers went to school with the children in the hills and ''there is still a feeling that the diversity continues to exist -- more a feeling than a reality,'' David W. McCullough, a local historian, said. 
 As a community, Hastings tries to resist the trappings of affluence that are spreading through so many suburbs. The downtown is still a collection of mostly older stores and restaurants -- reflecting ''a certain pride that we have in the shabbiness,'' as Mr. McCullough put it.
 Very few of the upscale stores and restaurants evident elsewhere have arrived here yet. But almost certainly they will as rising home prices, which limit eligible newcomers to families like the Hirschfelds, gradually squeeze out lower-income families.
 The Hirschfelds, adding even greater value to their home, have installed air conditioning, expanded the master bathroom and more than doubled the size of Leila's bedroom, by constructing a second story on top of the kitchen wing. They rebuilt the basement, spending far more than they intended to get rid of mold and wetness, and took down the wall between the living room and the dining room, creating what Mr. Hirschfeld described as ''a flowing space so we can have a conversation from the kitchen with someone who is two rooms away in the living room.'' New windows are next.
 ''You can't live in this day and age with drafty windows,'' Mrs. Hirschfeld said. ''Either you pump your furnace for all it's worth all winter, or you have double-glazed windows.''
 Drafty windows did not bother Ralph Breiling, who designed and built this house in 1925 on land he had purchased three years earlier, spending less than $10,000 in all, or about $111,000 adjusted for inflation. Mr. Breiling was an architect, but in the severe recession after World War I, he shifted to teaching school, later rising to assistant principal and then principal of Brooklyn Technical High School.
 A group of teachers had purchased land in Hastings, and Mr. Breiling joined them, buying one of the lots. 
 ''He loved the Hudson Valley and when the leaves were off the trees, we had a view of the river and the Palisades,'' Robert, one of his sons, remembered. For years, ''he commuted an hour and a half each way to his job.''
 When the Breiling family moved to Edgars Lane, the exterior was finished -- it looked then much as it looks today -- but the interior walls were mostly unfinished plaster. From then on, until he sold the house in 1950, Mr. Breiling renovated, with his own hands. 

A Love for the Hudson Valley
 He built the one-car garage that is still there, and the room above it, which became a children's playroom. He enclosed a patio, incorporating it into the living room. When his third child, Clover, was born, he expanded a small sewing room into the fourth bedroom, building out over the front door. 
 ''He spread the work out; he could not afford to do it all at once,'' said Robert Breiling, 83, now a retired engineer. ''The Depression hit him hard. The New York City schools cut pay in half. They said they would make it up after the war, which they didn't. My mother started a nursery school in the dining room. She had a bunch of little tables and chairs; made a schoolroom out of it. I thought she liked doing it. But looking back it was for need.''
 The Breilings' lasting legacy was the garden in the big side yard, which Mr. Breiling's wife, Leila, tended. In a 1933 article on ''beautiful gardens of Hastings,'' the weekly Hastings News had this to say about the Breilings' place: ''From the stone retaining wall along the street with its dense privet hedge up to the children's terrace that now backs against the farm wall on the garden's highest level, one passes, terrace by terrace, through grassy greensward, flowering shrubs, long borders aglow with a hundred blossoms.''
 From that garden came the holly that Duncan Wilson fashioned into wreaths and sold at Christmas. His parents, Byron and Jane Wilson, purchased 150 Edgars Lane in 1951 for $25,000, the equivalent of a little less than $190,000 in today's dollars, moving from a smaller home in nearby Dobbs Ferry when their third child was still young. 
 ''My mother decided that the family needed more space,'' Duncan Wilson, now 69, recalls.
 The Wilsons put energy into maintaining the elaborate garden, but they did little to the house itself. They were square dancers, so they fixed up the basement, refinishing the walls and tiling the floor, Mr. Duncan said. Like the Breilings, they sold the house after their youngest child finished high school, in 1963. 
 The next four owners either moved on quickly, to new jobs in other cities, or stayed to raise children. The turnover helps to explain why the typical American family owns a home for five or six years, a tenure unchanged going back decades. 
 Jerome and Carolyn Zinn stayed for eight years, having purchased the house in 1964 from a psychiatrist who lived in it only 18 months. The Zinns paid $40,000 -- roughly $250,000 adjusted for inflation -- coming from a city apartment with eight-week-old twin boys. 
 ''I knew that you raised children in a house,'' Mrs. Zinn said. ''I didn't know anything about Hastings or anyone in the community. We started out looking in Yonkers and we wandered into Hastings and we liked the hilliness and the trees.'' 
 Mr. Zinn had started as a linotype operator, and his wife taught school, saving enough from her salary for the $11,000 down payment. The remaining $29,000 was the amount still owed on the psychiatrist's mortgage, which the Zinns took over -- a common practice in those days. Before coming to Hastings, Mr. Zinn had gone from printer to owner of a small typography shop. It flourished, and in 1982 the Zinns built a bigger home in Irvington, a neighboring town. 
 ''I kept thinking I wanted to do this to the house and that to the house,'' Mrs. Zinn said, ''and then I said, if there are so many things I want to do we should buy a house, or build one.''
 In 1974, the Zinns sold 150 Edgars Lane for $67,500 -- adjusted for inflation, not that much more than they had paid -- to Gerald Franz, a specialist in environmental issues then employed by the New York City Planning Commission, and his wife, Susan, a public school math teacher. They had been married five years, hoping to have children -- they later adopted two daughters -- and the purchase price was a stretch for them.
 ''My expectation was to be married forever and to live there forever,'' Mrs. Franz said. 

What Was Once a Garden
 The Zinns agreed to let the Franzes postpone payment for the side yard, and they waited nearly a decade before they purchased that portion of their property for $17,000. By then, with neither family caring for the garden, it had gone to seed and Mr. Zinn, in any event, was thinking of its value as a building plot. ''I had always hoped in the back of my mind to get the variance to build,'' he said.
 Divorce interrupted those plans. Mrs. Franz, who recently remarried and is now Susan Franz Ledley, got the house in the 1996 settlement. By then, it was valued at $500,000. As a school teacher, she could barely afford the upkeep and in 2001, while her youngest daughter was a high school senior, she sold it for $819,000 -- about $900,000 in today's dollars -- to Mr. Stover, a stock analyst for Citigroup, and his wife, Jeanine.
 The Stovers were in their 30's and planning a family, like the Franzes nearly 30 years earlier. Unlike the Franzes, however, and all the other earlier owners, they began to plan renovations, hiring an architect.
 ''Just as we were starting to get some steam, we were called to Boston,'' Mr. Stover said. He took a better job in that city. 
 Now that housing prices are subsiding, the future monetary payoff from owning 150 Edgars Lane is clouded. But for the Hirschfelds the pleasures of indulging themselves count for more. Julie Hirschfeld points to the new bathroom sinks, for example, which resemble 19th-century wash bowls, and the ''ridiculously expensive'' border tiles in the master bathroom.
 ''Once we started,'' she said, ''because we had to do so much, it seemed we should make the choices about how we wanted it to look.''

 Present estimated market value of house.

(pg. A10)

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Tudor-style house on Edgars Lane, shown in the early 1940's. (pg. A1)
The Hirschfeld family enjoys the expanded kitchen in their home at 150 Edgars Lane in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. Built for less than $10,000 in 1925, the home is valued at $1.2 million. A succession of previous owners might not recognize its interior today. (Photographs by Alan Zales for The New York Times)
1940's -- The house while it was still the property of the original owners and builders, Ralph and Leila Breiling.
1980's -- Susan Franz and her daughter Erica at the house in the 1980's.
2005 -- The house in November
 it is now owned by Tom and Julie Hirschfeld. (pg. A10)Chart: ''One House, Eight Owners''Built in 1925 by Ralph Breiling, an architect turned public school teacher, the house at 150 Edgars Lane in the New York suburb of Hastings-on-Hudson has gone through significant changes in recent years, reflecting the transformation of many once-ordinary suburban dwellings into grander statements of personal wealth and status. The real estate boom of the late 1990's and early 2000's, concentrated around cities like New York, Chicago and San Francisco, has driven the changes by turning such homes into valuable investments in their own right.1925: BUILT FOR LESS THAN $10,000($111,100 IN 2005 DOLLARS)Ralph and Leila Breiling move into a house designed and built by Mr. Breiling -- an architect, probably acting as his own contractor -- for less than $10,000, his son, Robert, says.1951: SOLD FOR $25,000($187,700)House is sold to Byron and Jane Wilson.1963: $38,000($241,800)House is sold to Robert and Betty Senescu.1964: $40,000($251,400)House is sold to Jerome and Carolyn Zinn.1974: $67,500($266,800)House is sold to Gerald and Susan Franz.1996: $500,000($621,300)Susan Franz gets the house in a divorce settlement.2001: $819,000($901,500)House is sold to Matthew and Jeanine Stover.2002: $890,000($964,400)House is sold to Tom and Julie Hirschfeld.2005: VALUED AT $1,200,000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CITIES (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); SUBURBS (75%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (74%); WRITERS (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006



41 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: STATES TAKE LEAD IN PUSH TO RAISE MINIMUM WAGES 

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
Despite Congressional refusal for almost a decade to raise the federal minimum wage, nearly half of the civilian labor force lives in states where the pay is higher than the rate set by the federal government. 
 Seventeen states and the District of Columbia have acted on their own to set minimum wages that exceed the $5.15 an hour rate set by the federal government, and this year lawmakers in dozens of the remaining states will debate raising the minimum wage. Some states that already have a higher minimum wage than the federal rate will be debating further increases and adjustments for inflation.
The last time the federal minimum wage was raised was in 1997 -- when it was increased from $4.75 an hour. Since then, efforts in Congress to increase the amount have been stymied largely by Republican lawmakers and business groups who argued that a higher minimum wage would drive away jobs. 
 Thwarted by Congress, labor unions and community groups have increasingly focused their efforts at raising the minimum wage on the states, where the issue has received more attention than in Republican-dominated Washington, said Bill Samuel, the legislative director of the national A.F.L.-C.I.O. 
 Opinion polls show wide public support for an increase in the federal minimum wage, which falls far short of the income needed to place a family at the federal poverty level. Even the chairman of Wal-Mart has endorsed an increase, saying that a worker earning the minimum wage cannot afford to shop at his stores. 
 ''The public is way ahead of Washington,'' Mr. Samuel said. ''They see this as a matter of basic fairness, the underpinning of basic labor law in this country, a floor under wages so we're not competing with Bangladesh.''
 The minimum wage has been the subject of fierce ideological debate since it was first established in 1938 under President Franklin D. Roosevelt as part of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Business groups and conservative economists have argued that the minimum wage is an unwarranted government intrusion into the employer-employee relationship and a distortion of the marketplace for labor. An increase in the minimum wage, they say, drives up labor costs across the board and freezes unskilled and first-time workers out of the job market.
 ''Increasing the minimum wage is a bad move economically, philosophically and politically,'' said Marc Freedman, director of labor law policy for the United States Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Freedman said that any minimum wage set by the federal government was completely arbitrary and did not take local labor market costs into account. 
 According to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, about two million American workers, 2.7 percent of the overall work force, earned the minimum hourly wage of $5.15 or less in 2004, the last year for which such statistics were available. Those workers were generally young (half were under 25, and a quarter were teenagers), unmarried and had not earned a high school diploma. About three-fifths of all workers paid at or below the federal minimum wage worked in bars and restaurants, and many received tips to supplement their basic wages.
 Advocates of an increase in the minimum wage said that inflation had so eroded the value of the minimum wage in the last nine years that it was worth less today in real terms than at any time since 1955. They also cited studies that found that raising the minimum wage did not cause job loss, as opponents argue. According to these studies, employers can absorb the higher labor costs through efficiencies, less employee turnover and higher productivity.
 Tim Nesbitt, the former president of the Oregon A.F.L.-C.I.O., said that despite having one of the highest minimum wages in the country at $7.25 an hour, Oregon had had twice the rate of job growth as the rest of the country.
 The 2006 battle over the minimum wage is expected to be particularly intense in Ohio, one of only two states that have a minimum wage below the federal level (the other is Kansas). The minimum wage in Ohio since 1991 has been $4.25 an hour, which applies to small employers, some farms and most restaurants. Workers at larger enterprises are generally covered by the federal minimum wage. 
 Efforts to get the Republican-run General Assembly to consider raising Ohio's minimum wage have gone nowhere, so labor groups and the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, known as Acorn, an advocacy group for low-income individuals and families, are planning a ballot initiative to put the issue to a popular vote in November.
 Tim Burga, legislative director for the Ohio A.F.L.-C.I.O., said that 92,000 workers in the state made less than the federal minimum wage, some as little as $2 an hour. The proposed Ohio Constitutional amendment would set the state minimum wage at $6.85 an hour, indexed to future inflation, bringing an immediate raise to as many as 400,000 workers.
 Former Senator John Edwards, the 2004 Democratic vice-presidential nominee, said in an interview that he planned to help organize the minimum wage campaign in Ohio as part of his national campaign to alleviate poverty. He called the current minimum wage a moral disgrace and a national embarrassment.
 ''My view is it should be $7.50 an hour, and I can make a great argument for it being a lot higher than that,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''This is a perfect example of the Republican leadership in Congress, combined with the powerful presence of lobbies in Washington, thwarting the will of the people.''
 Leading the opposition to the initiative will be the Ohio Restaurant Association, which like its parent organization, the National Restaurant Association, closely monitors and vigorously opposes efforts to raise the minimum wage. 
 ''Restaurants are a low-margin business,'' said Geoff Hetrick, president of the Ohio Restaurant Association. ''A number of marginal operations which are more or less on the ragged edge right now might find this to be the straw that breaks the camel's back, especially in northern Ohio where they've had a significant loss in manufacturing employment that's taken a lot of disposable income out of the economy.''
 One of those who would be affected by the proposed minimum wage increase in Ohio is Rick Cassara, owner of John Q's Steakhouse in downtown Cleveland. He said that while all of his 55 employees currently earn more than the minimum wage, he opposed a mandated increase because it would drive up all of his labor costs. ''It exerts upward pressure on all wages and prices,'' Mr. Cassara said. ''If the minimum wage is $7 and I have to pay $8 or $9 to hire a dishwasher, then the cooks are going to say they want more. How much can I charge for that hamburger?''
 Another small employer, Dan Young, owner of Young's Jersey Dairy in Yellow Springs, a working farm and restaurant operation, said that more than half of his 300 workers were high school and college students, many of them in their first jobs. He said he paid many of them $5.25 an hour, just above the federal minimum wage, but most quickly won raises or earned far more than that in tips.
 Mr. Young said that if Ohio enacted a Democratic proposal to raise the state's minimum wage by $1 an hour over the federal level, his labor costs would go up by $250,000 a year or more. ''When you do all the math,'' he said, ''I'll have to figure out a way to hire fewer workers, or raise prices, or both.'' 
 In 2004, voters in Nevada and Florida approved ballot initiatives raising the state minimum wage to $6.15 an hour, in both cases by more than a 2-to-1 margin. Nevada voters must vote on the measure again this year because it is a Constitutional amendment, but proponents are confident they will prevail. Lawmakers in California, which already has one of the highest rates in the nation at $6.75 an hour, approved a bill last year to increase the wage to $7.75 an hour in 2007, but Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed it, the second time he has rejected such legislation.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger said then that he believed that low-wage California workers deserved a raise, but said the legislation, which contained automatic increases tied to inflation, would be too costly to employers.
 But aides to Mr. Schwarzenegger said late last week that the governor would propose a $1-an-hour increase in the California minimum wage in his State of the State address this week. If approved, the proposal would take effect over the next 18 months and would not have an automatic inflation adjustment, the aides said. The move appears designed in part to pre-empt a ballot initiative that would raise the California hourly rate an additional $1, to $8.75 an hour, and include annual cost-of-living increases.
 Inflation indexing is also an issue in Oregon, where the minimum wage is currently $7.25 an hour and adjusts every year for inflation under an initiative approved by voters in 2002. Each year since passage of that measure, the Oregon Restaurant Association and other business groups have pushed legislation to cancel the indexing provision or to exempt some workers from the wage law, but have so far failed. Gov. Theodore R. Kulongoski, a Democrat and former labor lawyer, has vowed to veto any such measure that reaches his desk.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Heather Uhrig, a waitress at the Golden Jersey Inn in Yellow Springs, Ohio. The inn is owned by Dan Young, who says his labor costs will go up considerably if there is an increase in the minimum wage. (Photo by J. D. Pooley for The New York Times)
 Rick Cassara, owner of John Q's Steakhouse in downtown Cleveland. (Photo by Eustacio Humphrey for The New York Times)(pg. A9) Chart/Map: ''Above the Federal Minimum Wage''17 states and the District of Columbia currently set minimum wages higher than the federal minimum of $5.15 an hour.Map of the United State highlighting the following states that set minimum wages higher than the federal minimum:Wash.Ore.Calif.HawaiiAlaskaN.Y.Wis.Minn.Ill.Fla.Me.Vt.Mass.R.I.Conn.N.J.Del.D.C.(Source U.S. Department of Labor)(pg. A9)Chart: ''Higher Wages''States that have set minimum wages higher than the federal minimum of $5.15 an hour.(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); AFL-CIO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006



42 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7

Scholars Were Paid In U.S. Propaganda Effort
A Pentagon contractor that paid Iraqi newspapers to run positive articles written by American soldiers has also been compensating Iraqi religious scholars in return for assistance with its propaganda work, according to current and former employees. A1

Eight car bombings in Baghdad and three in Kirkuk shattered a relatively peaceful New Year's holiday in Iraq, and the police said 2 of the Baghdad bombers were killed and that 24 people were wounded in the attacks. 
 A6

South Korea Sets Asian Trends
From clothes to hairstyle, music to television dramas, South Korea has been defining the tastes of many Chinese and other Asians for the past half decade -- a turning point for a country that has traditionally received culture, especially from China but also from Japan and the United States. A1

Russia Reduces Ukrainian Gas
Russia cut off the flow of natural gas for Ukraine as talks over pricing and transit terms unraveled into a bald political conflict that carried consequences for Ukraine's recovering economy and possibly for gas supplies to Western Europe. The dispute comes a year after the Orange Revolution brought a pro-Western government to power in Ukraine. A7

Taiwan Leader Seeks Arms
President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan called for increased arms purchases and warned against greater economic ties to China, in a televised speech that silenced months of speculation that he might soon seek to improve relations across the Taiwan Strait. The speech was Mr. Chen's first policy address since his Democratic Progressive Party fared badly in islandwide municipal elections on Dec. 3. A3

Afghans Ban Barriers on Streets
Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, and the Ministry of Interior, apparently responding to both pressure from the new Parliament and longstanding public grumbling, ordered all organizations, foreign and otherwise, to remove barriers obstructing Kabul's streets. A6

Croat Arrest Becomes Example
The recent arrest of Ante Gotovina, one of the chief war crimes suspects from the former Yugoslavia, offers lessons that could directly aid efforts to capture the region's other most-wanted fugitives: Radovan Karadzic, the wartime leader of the Bosnian Serbs, and his military commander, Gen. Ratko Mladic. A4

Pakistan Retreats on Schools
The Pakistani government backed away from its year-end deadline to expel foreign students of Islamic seminaries, but a coalition representing those schools called the government's overall plan ''inhuman, immoral and totally illegal.'' A6

NATIONAL A8-11

More States Acting To Raise Minimum Wage
Although Congress has declined for almost a decade to raise the federal minimum wage, a third of the states have acted on their own to set higher minimum wages. Bolstered by those successes, advocates of a higher rate plan to push for increases in many of the remaining states in 2006. A1

Alito Nears Hearing
Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. enters his last week of dress rehearsals for his Supreme Court confirmation hearings. How he will come off before the panel of senators and television cameras is unknown, but senators of both parties have said it will not be easy to follow Chief Justice John G. Roberts, who was polished and camera-ready at his own hearings a few months ago. A1

Bush Defends Spy Program
President Bush continued to defend both the legality and the necessity of the National Security Agency's domestic eavesdropping program, and he denied that he misled the public last year when he insisted that any government wiretap required a court order. Mr. Bush's strong defense of the program came as Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, called on the administration to make available current and former high-level officials to explain the evolution of the secret program. A11

Assessing Damage After Storm
Northern California assessed its storm damage: Napa County was hit hardest by a drenching storm that forced hundreds of residents out of their homes and closed scores of roads. Now Southern California is bracing for approaching storms that the authorities said could set off mudslides. A8

Homes as Investments
As home prices have soared in recent years, many houses have become not just nice places to live but remarkably valuable investments as well. Responding to this newly embedded wealth, hundreds of thousands of families living in suburbs of cities like New York, Chicago and San Francisco, have transformed their homes into something grander and more personal. A1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-7

A Former Football Star's Fall
Maurice Clarett, who three years ago this week led Ohio State's football team to the national title, was sought by the police in Columbus, Ohio, as a suspect in an armed robbery.The situation may further the downward spiral for Clarett, 22, a running back once considered one of the most talented players in college football. D1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Bloomberg Is OptimisticIn Inaugural Address
In his second inaugural address, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg projected unabashed optimism as he promised to pursue an ambitious housing program, to begin a national campaign against illegal guns and to ''lock in and extend'' his program to improve city schools. A1

Four Are Killed in City
The year 2006 began with a streak of deadly violence in New York City, with four men killed after midnight in three separate attacks before sunrise. A 17-year-old high school sophomore was stabbed in Queens, and three other men died in shootings in Manhattan and Queens. B3

M.T.A. Defends Settlement
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority defended a settlement it signed last week, arguing that the transit union's concession to collect a contribution toward the cost of members' health insurance is worth more than the authority's original pension demands. It will also urge the state to revoke the union's ability to collect dues through automatic payroll deduction. B1

ARTS E1-14

Hollywood In New Zealand
Hollywood filmed two of the biggest fantasy films of the year in New Zealand -- ''King Kong'' and ''The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe'' -- where the successful ''Lord of the Rings'' trilogy was filmed. Not everyone is happy about it, and some fear that the country is turning into Hollywood's studio back lot and that it will be harder for New Zealand filmmakers to tell their own nation's story. E3

Casanova's Soundtrack
It might be said that, along with Venice itself, Baroque music plays the libertine's accomplice in the new movie ''Casanova.'' But while Baroque music lovers may recognize familiar passages, the excerpts have been stitched together in an original way, actually creating ''new'' Baroque works. E1

OBITUARIES B7

Truman K. Gibson Jr.
A high-level adviser in the War Department who fought racial discrimination in the Army in World War II. He later became a powerful boxing promoter, he was 93. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Taking On the Media
News reporters find themselves under increasing scrutiny, as dissatisfied interview subjects take to the Internet through e-mail and especially the amplifying power of Web logs to correct the record or to make sure the story is told from their perspective. It could shift the center of gravity in the way that news is gathered and presented. C1

Technological Convergence
The biggest trend expected at the International Consumer Electronics Show is the blending of products like televisions and audio gear with personal computers, in an effort to create a stream of data, video and music. C1

Virtual Product Placement
Digital product placement was introduced largely as a cost-saving technology, but it has gained traction on network television as advertisers look beyond the traditional 30-second spot to reach consumers. C1

Cellphone Shopping Trend
Analysts and retail executives are expecting a big rise in shopping by cellphone as people are quickly accepting phones as multipurpose devices, with billions already spent on ring tones, wallpaper and games. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: Sunni rights and wrongs in Iraq; another Marie Antoinette moment; Verlyn Klinkenborg on Magnus, the runaway boar.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Autos D8
Bridge E12
Crossword E12
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E14
Weather B8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (77%); TRENDS (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); RELIGION (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); WAR CRIMES (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); ELECTIONS (68%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (55%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (55%); CITIES (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) IRAQ (95%); UKRAINE (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); TAIWAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CROATIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006



43 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan Chief Seeks More Arms, Not Better Ties to China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan called Sunday for increased arms purchases and warned against greater economic ties to mainland China, in a televised speech that silenced months of speculation that he might soon seek to improve relations across the Taiwan Strait.
 The speech was Mr. Chen's first major policy address since his Democratic Progressive Party fared badly in islandwide municipal elections on Dec. 3. His party favors greater political independence from the mainland. 
 The Nationalist Party, which favors closer relations with Beijing, did much better in those elections. The Nationalists have been riding a surge in popularity since the departing chairman, Lien Chan, visited the mainland in late April. He retired last summer.
 But Mr. Chen made clear on Sunday in his annual New Year's Day address that Taiwanese policy had not changed fundamentally. He used several politically charged phrases that appeal to independence advocates in Taiwan but are likely to offend mainland China. He also urged the legislature to approve his long-stalled plans to buy more weapons from the United States and raised again the possibility of a referendum to rewrite the Constitution, two steps strongly opposed by mainland China.
 He was particularly emphatic in warning of the risk posed by the rapid modernization of the People's Liberation Army on the mainland, especially its heavy investments in missiles that can reach Taiwan. ''In the face of such imminent and obvious threat, Taiwan must not rest its faith on chance or harbor any illusions,'' he said.
 Beijing had no immediate reaction. Wang Daohan, China's chief negotiator on Taiwan issues for many years, died Dec. 24 at 90, and political analysts have said that his death may make the mainland less likely to change policies toward the island soon.
 Philip Yang, the director of the Taiwan Security Research Center at National Taiwan University, said Mr. Chen's speech seemed to emphasize shoring up support from hard-line supporters of independence. The Constitution bars the president from seeking a third term when his current term expires in 2008, and there have been growing signs of challenges to what used to be the president's nearly absolute control over the Democratic Progressive Party.
 ''He tried to prove he is still in control,'' Mr. Yang said.
 The president referred as many as 70 times to the island as Taiwan instead of its legal name, the Republic of China, even though Jan. 1 has long been a public holiday in Taiwan to commemorate the founding of the Republic of China on Jan. 1, 1912. The Nationalist government of Chiang Kai-shek, defeated on the mainland, retreated to Taiwan in 1949.
 The island's Constitution still states that the Republic of China has jurisdiction over all of China, including the mainland, but President Chen has shifted away from this in his own comments for years. He also said in his speech on Sunday that his country had an area of just about 14,000 square miles, which is only the area of the island itself. 
 Mainland China considers Taiwan a breakaway province. 
 Lai I-chung, the international affairs director at the Taiwan Thinktank, a research group in Taipei that is independent of the Democratic Progressive Party but politically aligned with it, said President Chen's hard line showed that he had concluded that his party's internal divisions contributed more to its defeat in the municipal elections than the Nationalist Party's overtures to Beijing.
 One common worry in Taiwan involves growing economic dependence on the mainland and the extent to which the mainland economy now dwarfs Taiwan's. China's economy is expanding more than twice as fast as Taiwan's and is now six times the size of Taiwan's.
 On Dec. 20, statisticians in Beijing raised their estimate of the size of the Chinese economy by an amount equal to the entire annual output of Taiwan, after an economic census found that small private businesses in service industries, like restaurants, had previously been undercounted.
 Mr. Chen said Sunday that more than two-fifths of all orders placed with Taiwanese companies for manufactured goods were filled by factories elsewhere. The mainland accounts for 90 percent of these shipments from factories outside Taiwan, he said.
 ''Although we cannot turn a blind eye to China's market, we should not view the China market as the only or the last market,'' Mr. Chen said. ''Globalization is not tantamount to China-ization. While Taiwan would never close itself off to the world, we also shall not lock in our economic lifeline and all our bargaining chips in China.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan spoke yesterday at the presidential palace before a portrait of Sun Yat-sen, the founder of China's first republic. An honor guard, above, at a ceremony before the speech. (Photo by Patrick Lin/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 (Pool photo by Jerome Favre)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); REFERENDUMS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); JURISDICTION (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); CITIES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) TAIWAN (98%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006



44 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; THE BLOOMBERG INAUGURAL: OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: A Buoyant Bloomberg Begins His Second Term 

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; Winnie Hu contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Seizing on his electoral mandate in a second inaugural address that projected unabashed optimism, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg promised yesterday to pursue the most ambitious housing program in New York City's history, to begin a national campaign against illegal guns, and to ''lock in and extend'' his program to improve the schools.
 The address was a stark change from his first inaugural four years ago, when Mr. Bloomberg somberly called for shared sacrifice after the Sept. 11 attack. Yesterday, the mayor declared the city whole again in a boisterous ceremony that was, if anything, a celebration of its recovery and a call to build an even stronger New York.
 ''We've come a long way, and now we have a choice to make,'' Mr. Bloomberg said on the dais set atop the steps of City Hall. ''We could be content with what we have accomplished and preserve our gains, or we can take our beloved city even further forward -- and make the promise of opportunity real for every person in every community.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg made his remarks after reciting the oath of office alongside his two daughters, Emma and Georgina, and his mother, Charlotte, who turns 97 today and who held the Bible upon which the mayor placed his hand. His address was followed by a rendition of ''New York, New York'' by Liza Minnelli that was at once rousing and bittersweet, bringing some in the crowd -- perhaps those who remembered the somberness of the last inaugural -- visibly near tears.
 For his part, Mr. Bloomberg embraced the day as his own, unlike four years earlier, when he stood in the long shadow of his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, and addressed a city whose sprawling complexity was largely alien to him.
 ''Four years ago I spoke of building a better New York, and I can tell you exactly who is building it,'' Mr. Bloomberg said before a sea of public officials and his three living predecessors, Mr. Giuliani, David N. Dinkins and Edward I. Koch. ''It's the couple who has just made the down payment on their first home in Cypress Hills. It's the second grader with a newfound love of reading, checking a book out of the Harlem Branch Library.''
 Mr. Bloomberg's speech laid out the broad themes of his second term: completing his overhaul of the schools, rebuilding Lower Manhattan and keeping the city's streets safe. But the address was decidedly short on specifics, which are expected to be outlined in his State of the City speech later this month.
 That lack of detail about the mayor's second-term agenda drew some complaints from leading City Council officials. ''I didn't hear a program for addressing the fundamental issues of economic change, education, housing,'' said Councilman David Yassky. ''He made reference to those issues, but we have yet to see what the core agenda is going to be.''
 Mr. Bloomberg, buoyed by a 19-point margin of victory on Election Day, hinted that he would use his popularity to take a more vocal place on the national stage, much as Mr. Koch and Mr. Giuliani did, to campaign against illegal guns.
 ''Now we have a duty as well, one that rises above partisan politics, and one we will pursue relentlessly,'' Mr. Bloomberg said to his greatest applause of the day. ''And that is to rid our streets of guns and punish all of those who possess and traffic in these instruments of death.''
 Calling guns ''a national threat,'' he vowed to ''make common cause with our fellow Americans'' and to ''take our message to Albany, to Washington and to every capital of every state that permits guns to flow freely across its borders.''
 In the last few weeks, after the shooting deaths of two New York police officers, Detective Dillon Stewart and Officer Daniel Enchautegui, members of Mr. Bloomberg's staff have privately said that he is becoming more angered about what he believes to be efforts by special interests to stand in the way of legislation to combat gun trafficking.
 The mayor even seemed to take a jab at the National Rifle Association, directing his promise to pursue the ''tools we need'' to reduce gun violence, and carry the message to ''those who distort our laws and aid and abet hardened criminals.''
 Edward Skyler, a spokesman for the mayor, said Mr. Bloomberg would announce the specifics of his anti-gun campaign in the coming weeks. When asked if the mayor would propose federal and local legislation, Mr. Skyler said only that the campaign would be ''multifaceted.''
 And signaling a stronger involvement in the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan after shying away from the issue for much of his first term, the mayor fired what seemed to be a shot across the bow of those who oppose residential development around ground zero. (Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, who wants to focus on commercial development, was conspicuously absent yesterday; Gov. George E. Pataki attended.)
 ''We'll quicken the pace of rebuilding here in Lower Manhattan, creating a sustainable residential and commercial community,'' he said. ''By giving New York a genuine 21st-century downtown, we'll ensure that this, our historic birthplace, once again captures the imagination and admiration of people around the globe.''
 Much of Mr. Bloomberg's speech was a restatement of some of his larger campaign promises, like the planned construction of 165,000 units of housing for low- and moderate-income New Yorkers, and plans to foster more new small businesses and to lure more biotechnology companies to the city.
 He emphasized the next steps of his education program: to expand and restructure city-financed preschool programs and increase the focus on improving the high schools.
 ''Our mission over the next four years will be to create, from preschool through high school, a public education system second to none,'' he said. ''We will strengthen the three pillars of our school reform -- leadership, accountability and empowerment -- putting resources and authority where they belong, in the schools of our city.''
 After the speech, Randi Weingarten, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, complained that education was introduced too far down on Mr. Bloomberg's inaugural list of priorities. 
 Mr. Skyler said the mayor made education the last item of his speech only to give it a greater emphasis, and he noted that Ms. Weingarten had not attended the inaugural. 
 Even as City Council leaders similarly complained about a lack of specifics, they complimented the tone of the speech. Councilman Tony Avella of Queens, a critic of the mayor in the past, said he was encouraged. ''When the mayor spoke, he always said 'we' -- meaning everybody together -- and that's what we really need to do, work together on a bipartisan basis,'' he said. 
 That mood seemed to prevail yesterday, as did a generally festive atmosphere on day that lacked January's normally bitter bite. As guests arrived, Ms. Minnelli's band played swing music that had a decidedly ''gang's all here'' feel, and they were greeted with hot apple cider, doughnuts and commemorative mugs.
 The mayor, along with the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., and the public advocate, Betsy Gotbaum, were introduced by Barbara Walters and John Lithgow, both of whom added a spirit of levity. Ms. Walters joked about the mayor's early moves, banning smoking and refusing to tell the press when he went on vacation. ''What a charmer,'' she deadpanned.
 Councilwoman Gail Brewer complained that Mr. Bloomberg's speech itself was short on laughs. But the mayor did get one, when, toward the end of his speech of nearly 19 minutes, hequoted the writer O. Henry: New York will ''be a great place, if they ever finish it.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 4, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the second inauguration of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York misspelled the given name of a councilwoman who complained that the mayor's speech was short on laughs. She is Gale Brewer, not Gail. A picture caption on Saturday about plans for the ceremony misidentified the intended recipients of an inauguration gift, orange scarves. They were for volunteers, not guests.

GRAPHIC: Photos: William C. Thompson Jr., right, his hand on a Bible held by his daughter, Jennifer, is sworn in as city comptroller by his father, a retired judge. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg arriving yesterday at City Hall. ''We can take our beloved city even further forward,'' he told the crowd of thousands. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LIBRARIES (60%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006



45 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA TALK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Staffs Up as Others Downsize

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Bloomberg News, the financial news service, appears to be a bright spot in an industry clouded by transition, job cuts and uncertainty.
 Bloomberg has hired Roger Simon, the political writer who was unexpectedly laid off from U.S. News and World Report in October, as its chief political correspondent. 
Mr. Simon, 57, is one of several recent hires by the news service, which is expanding at a time when many print news outlets are contracting or repositioning themselves online. Weekly news magazines, including Mr. Simon's former employer, have had a particularly difficult time, losing circulation and advertising to the Internet.
 ''Almost everyone I know, no matter where they work, is worried about or talking about cutbacks, buyouts and shutdowns with varying degrees of anxiety,'' Mr. Simon said. Bloomberg ''is definitely not in a crouch position,'' he added. ''There's a real sense of energy.''
 Bloomberg, of course, is better known for its financial news than for its political coverage. Al Hunt, Bloomberg's executive editor in Washington, said that while financial news would remain the company's core mission, Bloomberg was moving to raise its visibility and reach a broader audience.
 ''Hiring Roger is a clear signal that we're quite serious about that,'' said Mr. Hunt, who was lured away from The Wall Street Journal a year ago. Other new hires include Rich Miller, the chief economics writer for BusinessWeek, and Matthew Benjamin of U.S. News and World Report.
 Kathryn Kross, the former Washington bureau chief for CNN and former senior producer in Washington for ''World News Tonight'' on ABC, is to head up Bloomberg's television and radio operations in Washington.
 Mr. Hunt has also brought on Ken Fireman from Newsday as the government editor and Margaret Carlson, formerly of Time magazine, as a columnist. The news service is also hiring for some of its other bureaus around the world. 
 ''We have a very good business model,'' Mr. Hunt said of Bloomberg's ability to hire at a transitional time in the news industry. ''We have the demand and the resources, and we'll be making selective hires in the year ahead.''
 His next priority, he said, was beefing up the news service's coverage of the Securities and Exchange Commission. KATHARINE Q. SEELYE


GRAPHIC: Photo: Al Hunt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); WRITERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (76%) 

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (91%); BLOOMBERG LP (90%); NEWSDAY INC (84%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Bloomberg Lp

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (90%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

PERSON: Roger L Simon; Al Hunt; Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006



46 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: No Bubble Trouble?

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
In spite of record home prices, housing in most of America remains surprisingly affordable, thanks to low interest rates. That fact may seem to say that there's no housing bubble. But it doesn't. To see why, we need to brush up on our economic geography and economic history.
 Let's start with the good news. A report in last week's Times summarized the results of a study by Moody's Economy.com, a research company, comparing the cost of home ownership with family incomes. 
The study found that for the nation as a whole, the cost of owning the median home is still only 23.7 percent of median family income, which is higher than a few years ago but well below the peak of more than 30 percent reached in the early 1980's.
 Now for the economic geography. Last summer I suggested that when discussing housing, we should think of America as two countries, Flatland and the Zoned Zone. 
 In Flatland, there's plenty of room to build houses, so house prices mainly reflect the cost of construction. As a result, Flatland is pretty much immune to housing bubbles. And in Flatland, houses have, if anything, become easier to afford since 2000 because of falling interest rates.
 In the Zoned Zone, by contrast, buildable lots are scarce, and house prices mainly reflect the price of these lots rather than the cost of construction. As a result, house prices in the Zoned Zone are much less tied down by economic fundamentals than prices in Flatland.
 By my rough estimate, slightly under 30 percent of Americans live in the Zoned Zone, which comprises most of the Northeast Corridor, coastal Florida, much of the West Coast and a few other locations. So Economy.com's results on affordability aren't surprising: most families live in Flatland, and haven't seen a big rise in the cost of home ownership.
 But because Zoned Zone homes are much more expensive than Flatland homes, the Zone looms much larger in the housing story than its share of the population might suggest. By my estimate, more than half of the total market value of homes in the United States lies in the Zoned Zone. 
 And because home prices have risen much more rapidly in the Zone than in the rest of the country, the Zoned Zone accounts for the great bulk of the surge in housing market value over the last five years.
 So if we want to ask whether housing values make sense, data on the median house nationwide are irrelevant. We need to focus on houses in the Zoned Zone. And there the numbers are anything but reassuring.
 In the Zoned Zone, the story that rising home prices have been offset by falling interest rates is all wrong: prices have risen so much that housing has become much less affordable. According to Economy.com, the cost of owning a home in the New York metropolitan area went from 25 percent of median income in 2000 to 38 percent today. In Miami, the numbers were 21 percent and 42 percent, respectively; in Los Angeles, 31 percent and 55 percent.
 Even so, the current cost of owning a home in the Zoned Zone isn't entirely unprecedented. Roughly similar percentages of median family income were needed to afford houses in the early 1980's. 
 But that's hardly a comforting comparison, which is where the economic history comes in. You see, the unaffordability of housing in the early 1980's led to an epic collapse in the housing industry. Housing starts fell from more than 2 million in 1978 to only 1.06 million in 1982. And the housing implosion was one of the main factors in the worst economic slump since the Great Depression, which brought the unemployment rate to a peak of 10.8 percent at the end of 1982.
 It's also worth noting that the reason housing was so expensive in 1981 and 1982 was that mortgage interest rates were extremely high. That made recovery easy, because all it took to make housing affordable again was for interest rates to return to normal levels. 
 This time, with interest rates already low by historical standards, restoring affordability will require a big fall in housing prices.
 So here's the bottom line: yes, northern Virginia, there is a housing bubble. (Northern Virginia, not Virginia as a whole. Only the Washington suburbs are in the Zoned Zone.) Part of the rise in housing values since 2000 was justified given the fall in interest rates, but at this point the overall market value of housing has lost touch with economic reality. And there's a nasty correction ahead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (94%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); ZONING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FAMILY (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); GEOGRAPHY (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (56%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Northeastern States (US); Florida ; West Coast (US)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006



47 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Sunni Rights and Wrongs in Iraq

 BODY:
Last month the big challenge was to encourage Sunni Arabs to vote in Iraq's parliamentary election. They did, in hearteningly high numbers. Now the challenge is to convince the Sunnis that the results, giving them only a modest minority of seats, reflect not systematic fraud, but the fact that Sunni Arabs make up only a modest minority -- roughly 20 percent -- of Iraq's population.
 Convincing them has been no easy task, despite declarations by United Nations and other neutral observers that the elections were fair, credible and transparent. This page has emphasized the need for Iraq's majority Shiites and their Kurdish allies to be more inclusive in dealing with the Sunni Arab minority. But the other side of that coin is that the Sunnis themselves need to accept that in democracies, majorities rule, and that the special privileges they enjoyed under a succession of Sunni-dominated regimes are not a birthright. 
Sunni Arabs have disproportionately dominated Iraq's political elite since even before the modern Iraqi state was created after World War I. The Ottoman Turks favored their fellow Sunnis. The British worked through a Sunni family they installed on the Iraqi throne. 
 The Baathist dictatorship was Sunni-led and, under Saddam Hussein, mercilessly persecuted Shiites and Kurds. It persecuted many Sunnis as well, but as a group they were favored with more than their share of scarce economic resources. Many Sunnis came to believe, and still believe, that they are not a minority at all and account for as much as half the Iraqi population. 
 The new political power of the long-oppressed Shiites and Kurds is proving very hard for many of Iraq's Sunni Arabs to accept. But until they can, it will be hard for them to find their legitimate place in a new democratic order.
 Only the Iraqis themselves can come together in a new national compact. Their willingness to do so in the near future is likely to depend to a large degree on how deftly America wields its enormous political influence during the next few weeks of political and constitutional bargaining. 
 Washington needs simultaneously to press the Shiites and Kurds to take a far more inclusive approach toward the Sunnis than they have over the past year and to press the Sunnis to accept the legitimacy of the latest election results. The Sunnis need to bargain more realistically and less menacingly for their fair share of power. They must recognize that they cannot continue to keep one foot in the insurgency and the other in the political process. 
 The chances of weaning armed jihadists and diehard Saddam Hussein loyalists from the insurgency any time soon are probably small. But what matters more to Iraq's future stability is whether Sunni Arabs who have taken up arms over local grievances can be brought to recognize that the most effective way to deal with those issues is through peaceful politics, not armed insurgency.
 Sunni Arabs have every right to insist that Shiite militias not be allowed to terrorize Sunnis, that Shiite-run police ministries not torture Sunni prisoners and that the Sunni middle class not be excluded from the army, the professions and politics through discriminatory anti-Baathist laws. They are right to demand that oil revenues, Iraq's main source of national wealth, be fairly shared by all provinces, not hoarded by the Shiite- and Kurdish-controlled provinces in which most known deposits are located. 
 But the Sunnis have no legitimate claim to hold on to the special privileges lavished on them by past undemocratic regimes. And they surely have no right to invoke their loss of political dominance as an excuse for violence against government institutions and Shiite and Kurdish Iraqis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (97%); ELECTIONS (91%); RELIGION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WORLD WAR I (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Sunni Muslims; Shiite Muslims; Editorials; Politics and Government; Elections

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006



48 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Chip Makers Search for a Strategy

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
In the late 1980's, Japan dominated the global computer chip industry, overtaking the United States in what was seen as a symbol of American economic decline and Japanese ascendance.
 Those roles have been reversed. Japan's global market share is now half of what it was then, while Intel of Santa Clara, Calif., has risen to become the world's largest and most profitable chip maker. Indeed, Intel and Samsung Electronics, a South Korean company that was not even in the picture in Japan's glory days, together have a market share as large as the combined shares of the 20 large Japanese chip makers tracked by the research firm iSuppli.
Japanese chip makers are trying to snap out of this decline by joining forces, either by sharing factory construction costs or through outright mergers. The latest move came Dec. 28, when the Japanese chip makers Hitachi, Toshiba and Renesas Technology announced they were in talks to jointly build a semiconductor factory, a project that would be backed by the government. The media has called the plant the Rising Sun chip factory, after Japan's flag. 
 Efforts to combine forces have failed in the past: a wave of mergers two years ago produced companies as unprofitable as their predecessors.
 At their height in 1988, Japanese companies produced 51 percent of the world's semiconductors, and the top three chip makers by market share -- NEC, Toshiba and Hitachi -- were all Japanese. Now, Japanese companies have a combined share of 23.4 percent of the $237.3 billion global semiconductor market, according to iSuppli. Just three Japanese companies made the Top 10.
 ''This has been a lost decade and a half for Japanese semiconductor companies,'' said Yoshiharu Izumi, an analyst at J. P. Morgan Securities. ''Japan has been caught between the United States and Asia, and this middle ground keeps shrinking.''
 The chip makers' woes have spurred much soul-searching in Japan, where the industry had been a source of national pride. But analysts say an intense sense of national mission in Japan's chip industry has been one cause of its undoing.
 For years, chip makers helped the country's export machine by supplying consumer electronics companies with every type of semiconductor imaginable, often at little regard for profits. Much of this was done in-house, as many of today's chip companies started life as divisions of Japanese electronics giants.
 Chip sales rose while Japan's consumer electronics were globally dominant, but plunged when the world started buying cheaper televisions, laptop computers and other products made elsewhere in Asia. As losses mounted, many Japanese electronics companies could no longer afford their chip operations and spun them off as separate companies. These new companies lacked the cash to keep pace with the billions of dollars that rivals like Intel and Samsung were spending on new factories and production lines.
 Now, many analysts here say, the only way the industry can save itself is by learning from American chip makers like Intel and Texas Instruments, which reinvented themselves two decades ago in response to Japan's strength. These United States companies succeeded by building strong overseas sales networks and concentrating their resources on a small number of products that they made well. Intel focused on building microprocessors, the brains of personal computers, and now dominates the global market. Texas Instruments specialized in chips used in cellphones.
 ''In the 1980's, the United States figured out a new business strategy,'' said Toshio Nakajima, president of NEC Electronics, the chip subsidiary of the Japanese electronics giant NEC. NEC fell from being the world's largest chip maker in 1988 to the 10th-largest today. ''It is remarkable how these American companies learned to compete.'' 
 Mr. Nakajima said his company might eventually focus production on just three types of chips, though it had not decided which three. ''It's a big risk to limit yourself to a small number of products. Those have to be very strong products,'' he said.
 Toshiba is doing well focusing production on a specialized product, advanced NAND flash memory chips that are used in digital cameras and music players like the Apple iPod. Toshiba's chip revenues are expected to have grown a healthy 7 percent in 2005, according to iSuppli. (Like most companies, Toshiba does not break out its chip sales figures.) 
 The picture is not so rosy for the rest of Japan's industry. Of the 20 Japanese chip makers tracked by iSuppli, 12 are expected to report reduced revenues in 2005, including NEC Electronics and Renesas, which was created by the 2003 merger of the chip operations of Hitachi and Mitsubishi Electric. 
 The Japanese chip makers' problems are not the result of a lack of technology but an overdependence on their home market. Even the three biggest chip makers -- Toshiba, Renesas and NEC -- still sell about 60 percent of their chips within Japan, according to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. By contrast, Intel, Samsung and Texas Instruments do about 80 percent of their business outside their home countries.
 Another problem is high costs, partly because of outdated and inefficient factories. As sales fell, companies had to cut back on buying new facilities and equipment. In 2002, such spending by all Japanese chip makers totaled 266 billion yen (about $2.3 billion), a third of its level in 1989, according to J. P. Morgan. It is now back up to 741 billion yen ($6.3 billion), still barely enough to keep pace with the $33 billion that Samsung alone plans to spend over the next six years to build nine new semiconductor production lines.
 Japan's powerful bureaucrats, who originally helped guide the industry to preeminence, have been urging companies to pool money and technology, with limited success. They originally pressed the largest half-dozen companies to cooperate in building the Rising Sun semiconductor factory, which could cost as much as $3 billion. But the effort was delayed for years as companies failed to agree on what kind of chips Japan should focus its resources on. In the end, just three companies announced that they would join the project.
 ''Japanese companies have been looking hard for a winning strategy,'' said Tatsuya Fujiwara, deputy director in charge of the semiconductor industry at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. ''They still haven't found one yet.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers at an NEC plant. NEC, once the world's largest chip maker, is now at No. 10. (Photo by Tom Warner/Redux)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); MERGERS (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (88%); SEMICONDUCTORS (88%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (71%); EXPORT TRADE (50%) 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%); TOSHIBA CORP (91%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Intel Corp; Samsung Corp

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); TOS (LSE) (91%); 6502 (TSE) (91%); SMSN (LSE) (57%); 005930 (KSE) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: Tatsuya (Min) Fujiwara; Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006



49 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Russia Cuts Off Gas to Ukraine as Talks on Pricing and Transit Terms Break Down

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER; Brian Knowlton contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
Russia cut off the natural gas intended for Ukraine on Sunday as talks over pricing and transit terms unraveled into a bald political conflict that carried consequences for Ukraine's recovering economy and possibly for gas supplies to Western Europe. 
 The dispute comes a year after the Orange Revolution brought a pro-Western government to power in Ukraine. It ends a decade of post-Soviet subsidies in the form of cheap energy that allowed Russia to retain some influence over the former Soviet republics.
Choking off the westbound pipes is a striking gamble by Russia, one likely to send political and economic ripples westward in the months ahead. Russia is positioning itself to become an energy-supplying nation capable of easing dependency on Middle Eastern oil in Western Europe and even in the United States. 
 Gazprom, the Russian energy giant, 51 percent of which is owned by the state, provides about a quarter of Western Europe's natural gas. Under a system begun in the Soviet era, 80 percent of Russia's exports to Europe have passed through Ukraine. Gazprom said it had reduced the flow to equal the volumes it agreed to provide to Western countries, minus what the company provides for the Ukrainian domestic market. 
 On the same day it throttled back its gas to Ukraine, Russia assumed the chairmanship of the Group of 8, the club for the world's large developed economies, promising to push the theme of ''energy security.''
 Sunday's early-winter cut in gas supplies to Ukraine came as an unsettling reminder that promises of energy exports are not Russia's only method of using oil and gas to further its foreign policy goals -- it can also turn off the valve of energy exports.
 The election of Viktor A. Yushchenko as Ukraine's president last winter pulled the former Soviet country from Russia's sphere of influence. A gas shortage this winter could discredit him and weaken his party, with parliamentary elections coming up in March. 
 Tellingly, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia was personally involved in the negotiations. It was he, rather than company officials, who made the final offer of a grace period on Saturday. 
 A jump in Russia's utility bill to Ukraine is at the heart of the current conflict. Russia is seeking to charge $220 to $230 per 1,000 cubic meters of natural gas, up from $50. Ukraine's economy has depended on buying cheap energy from Russia, which provides about a third of its natural gas supply. 
 The 11th-hour effort to head off the shutdown failed. On Sunday, Ukraine's natural gas distributing company, Naftogaz, said it had faxed a draft contract to Russia shortly after 11 p.m. Saturday -- agreeing to terms laid out earlier that evening by Mr. Putin, the company said in a statement.
 Mr. Putin had suggested a 3-month grace period if Ukraine would agree to pay the higher prices thereafter. Gazprom, however, said Sunday the faxed reply had fallen short of demands.
 ''We were prepared to come to terms with the Ukrainian people and help maintain comfortable conditions for them during the winter, the most crucial season from the point of view of energy supplies,'' Gazprom's chief spokesman, Sergei V. Kupriyanov, said on Russian television. ''Our proposals were turned down.''
 At around 10 a.m. on Sunday, Gazprom began cutting the pressure on pipelines at the border with Ukraine, and the effect on the Ukrainian web of pipelines was felt later in the day. 
 ''Russia counts on Ukraine to guarantee the stable supply of Russian gas to European countries in accordance with international obligations fixed in the European Energy Charter,'' a statement from the Interior Ministry said. 
 The effects were starting to be felt in Europe on Sunday night. The Hungarian natural gas wholesaler, MOL, said that deliveries from the affected pipeline were down more than 25 percent, according to Reuters, which added that in Poland, supplies dwindled 14 percent. 
 Polish officials said reserves were adequate for now, and the Hungarian company asked big gas consumers to switch to oil where possible. 
 Gazprom reduced the pressure in the gas mains leading to Ukraine at three metering stations and ceased boosting pressure in the westbound pipelines from a storage system that is designed to keep the pressure up during peak demand in the winter. It was unclear whether the impact on the other countries was a result of Gazprom's action or whether it was the result of interference by Ukraine. 
 ''It's their task not to take the gas that goes through their territory,'' a Gazprom spokesman, Denis I. Ignatyev, said in a telephone interview.
 Prime Minister Yury I. Yekhanurov of Ukraine said on Sunday that his country was not siphoning gas from the pipeline. 
 The State Department, expressing hope that the conflict would be resolved, said in a statement: ''Such an abrupt step creates insecurity in the energy sector in the region and raises serious questions about the use of energy to exert political pressure. As we have told both Russia and Ukraine, we support a move toward market pricing for energy, but believe that such a change should be introduced over time rather than suddenly and unilaterally.''
 Mr. Putin has said that Russia's foreign policy will hinge on energy exports. In trips to Germany, Turkey and Japan last fall, he boldly promised not only a secure supply of fuel for the West, but also that Russia could become a much larger energy exporting nation in the years ahead. 
 He pushed Germany to endorse a multibillion-dollar underwater gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea. Gazprom is hoping to extend the pipe to Denmark, Belgium and Britain. Gazprom is also in talks with a short list of five major energy companies to develop a huge gas field in the Barents Sea, far above the Arctic Circle off western Russia, hoping to ship significant quantities of liquefied natural gas directly to the United States, the world's largest energy consumer.
 Gazprom is the Russian government's largest energy policy instrument -- though the company sometimes insists it operates only on business principles. The loss of fuel, if it persists, could shake Ukraine's economy the way the 1973 oil embargo helped plunge the United States into recession. Ukrainian officials said the loss could reverse its modest economic growth to cause a contraction of between 4 and 5 percent this year.
 The dispute involves complex arguments by Gazprom, which says the price it wants to charge Ukraine is based on the prices of competing fuels, like diesel and bunker oil, on international exchanges. But not far below the surface, there is the embarrassing loss of a Kremlin-backed candidate in last winter's Orange Revolution. 
 Russia has increased the costs of its natural gas to other former Soviet states, though not as steeply. Belarus, a Russian ally, pays $47 per 1,000 cubic meters.
 With its reduction in the flow of natural gas -- from a rate of around 120 million cubic meters per day to around 96, according to Gazprom -- Russia demonstrated there is only so far Ukraine can go before Russia reacts, and that indeed the country is still within Mr. Putin's range of influence. Each side blamed the other for the breakdown in talks. 
 ''We will take all steps not to allow theft,'' the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement. ''We get the impression that the Ukrainian government, feeling themselves uncertain, deliberately decided to break off the negotiation process.''
 In addition to a large pipeline -- called ''Brotherhood'' for the supposed warm relations between the two Slavic republics in Soviet times -- Russian gas enters Ukraine through more than 100 smaller pipes. 
 ''There's a lot of posturing and a lot of ways to put pressure on Ukraine,'' said Leonid Y. Mirzoyan, an equity analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, a financial company that has investment banking business with Gazprom. 
 In addition to the natural gas provided by Russia, Ukraine has domestic production and contracts for natural gas from the Central Asian country of Turkmenistan. 
 Naftogaz officials in Ukraine have said the Russian exports to Western Europe will not diminish. Yet government officials have also said the country will siphon gas from the export routes if necessary. Ukraine is a party to the European Energy Charter, an agreement intended to prevent disruption of fuel passing between countries.
 Nonetheless, Mr. Ignatyev, the Gazprom spokesman, said Sunday evening that Gazprom had already detected some siphoning of gas by Ukraine, and that the company would reveal its evidence on Monday.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about Russia's move to cut off natural gas intended for Ukraine misstated the amount involved. The decision reduced the flow through Ukraine's pipeline system, which is also a conduit for natural gas sent to Western Europe, by 125 million cubic meters per day, not by 24 million cubic meters.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Viktor A. Yushchenko, center at left, of Ukraine and his cabinet yesterday. Sergei V. Kupriyanov, above, a spokesman for Gazprom, a Russian fuel company. (Pool photo by Nikolay Lazarenko) Chart: ''Politics and Gas Prices''Analysts and some government officials in Moscow acknowledge a correlation between gas prices and political ties in the former Soviet Union, though Russia's state-owned natural gas monopoly disputes that its pricing policy is politically motivated. Countries in the table below have signed contracts with set prices for fuel, but Ukraine did not sign for the price offered and delivery of fuel has stopped.UkraineMINIMUM GAS PRICE PER 1,000 CUBIC METERS, 2006: PROBLEMS$220 WITH RUSSIA: Orange Revolution
aspires to join NATO and EU.MoldovaMINIMUM GAS PRICE PER 1,000 CUBIC METERS, 2006: 160PROBLEMS WITH RUSSIA: Russia supports separatists
aspires to join EU.EstoniaMINIMUM GAS PRICE PER 1,000 CUBIC METERS, 2006: 120PROBLEMS WITH RUSSIA: NATO member
has border disputes with Russia.LatviaMINIMUM GAS PRICE PER 1,000 CUBIC METERS, 2006: 120PROBLEMS WITH RUSSIA: NATO member.LithuaniaMINIMUM GAS PRICE PER 1,000 CUBIC METERS, 2006: 120PROBLEMS WITH RUSSIA: NATO member.ArmeniaMINIMUM GAS PRICE PER 1,000 CUBIC METERS, 2006: 110PROBLEMS WITH RUSSIA: None.AzerbaijanMINIMUM GAS PRICE PER 1,000 CUBIC METERS, 2006: 110PROBLEMS WITH RUSSIA: Is building rival oil and gas pipelines.GeorgiaMINIMUM GAS PRICE PER 1,000 CUBIC METERS, 2006: 110PROBLEMS WITH RUSSIA: Rose Revolution
 Russia supports separatists.BelarusMINIMUM GAS PRICE PER 1,000 CUBIC METERS, 2006: 47PROBLEMS WITH RUSSIA: None.(Source by Gazprom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Gas (Fuel); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (91%); NJSC NAFTOGAZ OF UKRAINE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (54%) Gazprom (Russian Co)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (91%); GAZP (RTS) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (58%); NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (58%); SIC5172 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS WHOLESALERS, EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (58%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (59%) Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; Andrew E Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (95%); UKRAINE (95%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Ukraine; Russia; Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006



50 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Another Marie Antoinette Moment

 BODY:
There is no shortage of numbers and studies detailing the widening gap between what American companies pay workers and the millions of dollars those same companies pay top executives. But just in case anyone hasn't been paying attention, here enters David Brooks, chief executive of the bulletproof vest manufacturer DHB Industries Inc., to provide a fuller picture. 
 Mr. Brooks has made hundreds of millions of dollars through the company, principally from federal and municipal contracts for bulletproof vests. But while 18,000 of those vests were being recalled by the United States military, some from Iraq, Mr. Brooks was in the midst of throwing a private party for his daughter and her friends at the Rainbow Room at Rockefeller Center. 
The bash was headlined by a list of performers that could easily have carried the Super Bowl halftime extravaganza. The superstar rapper 50 Cent and the front men from the rock group Aerosmith were among the night's many performers. According to The Daily News in New York, the party's estimated $10 million price tag -- a figure Mr. Brooks albeit called greatly exaggerated -- culminated with guests reportedly walking out carrying gift bags valued at $1,000 each, stocked with digital cameras and video iPods.
 Mr. Brooks is free to spend his money as he pleases, but he might have thought better than to draw added attention to his company right now. The November recall of the vests was the second by the military in 2005. The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating the company and Mr. Brooks. And the company is also the target of several shareholder lawsuits after a material in some of its body armor failed a federal safety test. 
 Meanwhile, the party came less than three months after the release of a report on ballooning pay for chief executives that singled out Mr. Brooks for making $70 million in 2004 compared with $525,000 in pre-Iraq-war 2001. The report said he made an additional $186 million in 2004 selling company stock.
 The same report, by the Institute for Policy Studies, a left-leaning research center, and United for a Fair Economy, a group seeking to narrow the gap between rich and poor, found that in 2004 the ratio of C.E.O. pay to worker pay at large companies had ballooned to 431 to 1. If the minimum wage had advanced at the same rate as chief executive compensation since 1990, America's bottom-of-the-barrel working poor would be enjoying salad days, with legal wages at $23.03 an hour instead of $5.15.
 In the go-go days of the Internet bubble, these kinds of statistics were easy to ignore because it felt as if anyone could be the next millionaire and surely the rising tide would lift all boats. Now corporate profits are being wrung in large part from cost cutting like reductions to worker health care and retirement, layoffs and plant closings. 
 It would be nice to see corporate America put more effort -- and money -- into quality control and fair living wages for workers and less into exorbitant pay packages and bonuses for corporate chieftains. We remain hopeful, although we can't help but think that while the average American will read about Mr. Brooks's war-windfall party at the Rainbow Room and feel queasy, someone in the ranks of the super-rich might take it as a challenge and check to see if the Taj Mahal is available for birthday parties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PERSONAL SAFETY EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); FOOD RECALLS (75%); CELEBRITIES (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (71%); PRODUCT RECALLS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); POP & ROCK (69%); ETHICS (69%); RAP MUSIC (68%); HIP HOP CULTURE (68%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (67%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (64%); LITIGATION (50%) Executives and Management; Wages and Salaries; Ethics; Editorials; Labor; Bulletproof Clothing; Protective Clothing ; United States Armament and Defense; Executives and Management; Defense Contracts; Recalls and Bans of Products

COMPANY: POINT BLANK SOLUTIONS INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%) Dhb Industries; Securities and Exchange Commission

INDUSTRY: NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2389 APPAREL & ACCESSORIES, NEC (72%)

PERSON: 50 CENT (67%) David (Co Exec) Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2006



51 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; MONEY & INVESTING 2006; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1942 words

HEADLINE: The Wisdom Of Wall St.? Sometimes It's Wrong

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
As 2006 begins, the great American housing boom is going to weaken, if not collapse. But that will not hurt the economy very much, and growth will continue at a good pace.
 Or so goes the conventional wisdom.
Mortgage applications are down, and surely home sales will follow. Homes in many markets are far less affordable than they were a few years ago. There is a lively argument as to whether prices will fall sharply in some markets or simply level off for a few years, but another record year for the housing industry seems out of the question.
 Sometimes, conventional wisdom proves correct, and a year from now that may be exactly what has occurred. But lately Wall Street's consensus forecast has seemed more likely to miss than to hit, a fact that investors may want to take into account before they sell their homes and await the bargains that will inevitably follow in the great housing bust.
 A year ago, the one verity in market commentary was that the decline of the dollar was real and was going to continue. The United States was running a huge and unsustainable trade deficit, and the dollar's 2004 decline was likely to accelerate. 
 So what happened? China did grudgingly allow a small devaluation of the dollar against the Chinese currency, albeit one so small that it made no difference at all. But the dollar rallied against the other major currencies. It ended 2005 up 14 percent against the euro and up 15 percent against the Japanese yen.
 A year earlier, at the end of 2003, market seers were united in expecting long-term interest rates to rise. The Federal Reserve was going to increase short-term rates, and virtually everyone was sure that long-term rates would follow. But they actually fell in 2004, and the yield of the longest-dated Treasury, which matures in 2028, fell again in 2005, although yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 17 basis points, to 4.39 percent.
 That rate was, however, lower than the two-year Treasury yield, which climbed 133 basis points, to 4.41 percent during the year. That yield-curve inversion, as bond jargon terms it, set off talk of a slower economy this year.
 If the conventional wisdom this year is going to be as wrong as it was the last two years, there are at least two ways for it to be wrong. One would be for housing to continue at an extraordinarily strong pace. An accompanying chart shows sales of single-family homes, both new and previously occupied, for 12-month periods over the last 20 years. The totals can be a little misleading, because new home sales are usually reported when contracts are signed, while sales of existing homes are reported a month or two later, when the transaction closes. 
 But no sign of slowing is to be seen in those charts, and, as Robert J. Barbera, the chief economist of ITG Hoenig, notes, if the next move in long-term interest rates is down, sales could rise even more.
 The stock market clearly was forecasting a decline in the housing market a few months ago. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange index of housing sector stocks reached a record high in late July and by late October had lost 21 percent of its value, leaving it down a little for the year. But it rallied 11 percent by the end of 2005, as profits continued to be strong. 
 Another way that the conventional wisdom could be wrong is that the impact of a declining housing market could be less benign than expected. Most economists say they think that the United States economy will grow around 3.3 percent this year, a little, but not much, slower than the 3.7 percent estimated for 2005. If the housing market were to decline, that could be reflected not only in lower construction spending but also in some retrenchment on the part of consumers who suddenly felt less well-off.
 Another factor that could weigh on consumers, and on business investment, is oil prices. As it happens, the last four years have all ended with spot oil prices seeming high. What is different now are market expectations. At the end of 2002 and 2003, the expectation was that prices would come down quickly, as soon as the Iraq adventure was over. By the end of 2004, spot prices were significantly higher and the expected declines much smaller.
 Now, the oil futures market sees no evidence of quick relief. The nearby oil futures contract, expiring in February, is at $61.04 per barrel. That is down from its peak of more than $70 reached in August, when Hurricane Katrina raised fears of oil shortages,. but it is well above what anyone expected a year ago. Moreover, the futures contract for the end of 2008, three years from now, sells for $61.99, a little higher than the current price.
 That is persuading oil companies to step up spending on exploration and development, and there are limited signs that consumers now care more about fuel economy than they did in recent years. General Motors, which had the unfortunate distinction of being the worst-performing stock in the Dow Jones industrial average in 2005, losing 52 percent of its value, plans to promote fuel efficiency when it advertises its new sports utility vehicles.
 Oil was the place to invest in 2005. Although the S.& P. 500 eked out an overall gain of only 3 percent, 8 of the 10 industry sectors were up, led by energy with a gain of 29.1 percent. The losing sectors were telecommunications, amid worries that competition with cable companies would leave little in the way of profits, and consumer discretionary, a sector that includes both auto companies and newspaper publishers. The latter suffered from worries that the Internet was eroding newspaper profitability at a faster pace than expected.
 Later in the year, measured from when Hurricane Katrina hit, the place to be was not in oil stocks, which registered most of their gains before that, but in materials stocks, many of which hope to benefit from the rebuilding effort in the devastated areas. U.S. Steel rose 20 percent after Aug. 26, although it still ended the year 6 percent below its level a year earlier.
 Despite the small gain for the S.& P. 500-stock index, gains were widespread. Of the 499 stocks in the S.& P. that were trading a year ago, 288 stocks showed gains for the year. It was the third consecutive year that more stocks rose than fell, and a sharp contrast to 1999, the last year of the bull market before it faltered, when the index gained 19.5 percent but only 241 stocks in the index were up.
 The S.& P. 500, like most indexes, is calculated on a capitalization-weighted basis. That means that the four largest stocks -- General Electric, Exxon Mobil, Citigroup and Microsoft -- account for 10.7 percent of the index movement. Of the four, only Exxon Mobil, up 9.6 percent, had a good year. Citigroup finished up less than 1 percent, and the others had losses.
 Of the stocks in the S.& P. 100, which are generally the largest in the 500, just 51 showed gains. And just 14 of the 30 Dow industrials showed gains.
 Standard & Poor's also computes the S.& P. 500 index on an equal-weighted basis, in which each of the 500 stocks counts as much as every other. That presents a far different picture. While the capitalization-weighted S.& P. 500 ended 2005 down 18 percent from its 2000 peak, the equal-weighted index has been setting records with regularity, although it is down from the peak set on Dec. 14. Its 2005 close was 33 percent higher than the highest close in 2000.
 Another example of conventional wisdom being wrong could be in the performance of Hewlett-Packard, whose 2002 merger with Compaq Computer was generally viewed as ill advised and led, in February 2005, to the ouster of Carleton S. Fiorina as the company's chief executive. The company ended the year up 37 percent, better than any other stock in the Dow 30.
 Other companies whose chief executives left under pressure during the year did not fare as well. Morgan Stanley posted a 2 percent gain, but that was the worst showing in the brokerage industry. Fannie Mae, which not only ousted its top management but has so far been unable to produce audited financial statements, fell 31 percent. Another company that has been unable to calculate its finances since a boss was fired, Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, lost 54 percent of its value. And Walt Disney, where Michael D. Eisner left earlier than he had planned, dropped 14 percent.
 Given the severance packages that are routinely given to former chief executives, none of them would have any trouble buying a new home. But a big issue in 2006 may be whether a lot of their less well-off fellow citizens discover that, for those who are treated less generously, homes are no longer affordable.
 2005 CLOSE: 1.7230
CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: -10.2%

EUROPE euro in dollars
2005 CLOSE: 1.1849
CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: -12.6

JAPAN yen
2005 CLOSE: 117.75
CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: -12.8

MEXICO peso
2005 CLOSE: 10.635
CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: +4.8

BRAZIL real
2005 CLOSE: 2.3355
CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: +13.7

CHINA yuan
 2005 CLOSE: 8.0702
CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: +2.6

SOUTH KOREA won
2005 CLOSE: 1010.00
CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: +2.5

CANADA dollar
 2005 CLOSE: 1.1620
CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: +3.4

STOCK MARKETS IN 2005 (MARKET INDEX)
United States

Dow Jones industrials
2005 CLOSE: 10,717.50
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: -0.6%

Dow Jones transports
2005 CLOSE: 4,196.03
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +10.5

Dow Jones utilities
2005 CLOSE: 405.11
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +20.9

S.& P. 500
2005 CLOSE: 1,248.29
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +3.0

Nasdaq Composite
2005 CLOSE: 2,205.32
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +1.4

Nasdaq 100
2005 CLOSE: 1,645.20
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +1.5

Russell 2000
2005 CLOSE: 673.22
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +3.3

Americas

Canada S.& P. TSX
2005 CLOSE: 11.272.26
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +26.1

Mexico Bolsa
2005 CLOSE: 17,802.71
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +44.5

Brazil Bovespa
2005 CLOSE: 33,455.94
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +45.2

Argentina Merval
2005 CLOSE: 1,543.31
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +10.1

Europe

Britain FTSE 100
2005 CLOSE: 5,618.80
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +4.8

France CAC 40
2005 CLOSE: 4,715.23
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +7.9

Germany DAX
2005 CLOSE: 5,408.26
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +11.1

Asia

Japan Nikkei 225
2005 CLOSE: 16,111.43
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +22.2

Hong Kong Hang Seng
2005 CLOSE: 14,876.43
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +4.8

Singapore Straits Times
2005 CLOSE: 2,347.34
PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +11.5

COMMODITIES IN 2005 (INDEXES)

REUTERS CRB INDEX over all
2005 CLOSE: 331.83
PERCENT CHANGE: +16.9%

NEAR-MONTH ACTIVE CONTRACT

GOLD (ounce)
2005 CLOSE: $519.70
PERCENT CHANGE: +18.5%

SILVER (ounce)
2005 CLOSE: 8.82
PERCENT CHANGE: +28.9

COPPER (pound)
2005 CLOSE: 2.16
PERCENT CHANGE: +45.4

PLATINUM (ounce)
2005 CLOSE: 964.20
PERCENT CHANGE: +12.2

CRUDE OIL (barrel)
 2005 CLOSE: 61.04
PERCENT CHANGE: +40.5

NATURAL GAS (million BTU)
 2005 CLOSE: 11.23
PERCENT CHANGE: +82.6

HEATING OIL (gallon)
 2005 CLOSE: 1.77
PERCENT CHANGE: +41.3

SOYBEANS (bushel)
2005 CLOSE: 6.02
PERCENT CHANGE: +9.9

CORN (bushel)
2005 CLOSE: 2.1575
PERCENT CHANGE: +5.4

WHEAT (bushel)
2005 CLOSE: 3.3925
PERCENT CHANGE: +10.3

COTTON (pound)
2005 CLOSE: 0.5419
PERCENT CHANGE: +21.0

COCOA (ton)
2005 CLOSE: 1,504.00
PERCENT CHANGE: -2.8

SUGAR, WORLD (pound)
2005 CLOSE: 0.1468
PERCENT CHANGE: +62.4

COFFEE (pound)
2005 CLOSE: 1.0710
PERCENT CHANGE: +3.2

ORANGE JUICE (pound)
2005 CLOSE: 1.2520
PERCENT CHANGE: +45.4

LIVE CATTLE (pound)
2005 CLOSE: 0.9245
PERCENT CHANGE: +2.9

LEAN HOGS (pound)
2005 CLOSE: 0.6528
PERCENT CHANGE: -14.6

PORK BELLIES (pound)
2005 CLOSE: 0.8215
PERCENT CHANGE: -12.8

LUMBER (1,000 bd. ft.)
2005 CLOSE: 359.00
PERCENT CHANGE: +0.7

(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets; The Associated Press; Merrill Lynch indexes (U.S. corporate bond rates)(pg. C6)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Single-family home sales''Graph tracks 12-month totals, (for new and existing homes) in millions since 1985.(Sources by National Association of Realtors
 Commerce Department)(pg. C1)Chart: ''A Bumpy Year''Higher energy prices, worries about a slowdown in housing and the Federal Reserve's steady increases in interest rates all weighed on the minds of investors in 2005. None of that is likely to change anytime soon. Indeed, the outlook for this year is also clouded by the troubles of the huge American automakers. Still, many companies, particularly in energy, some in technology and some on Wall Street, did very well in 2005 and may do so again.S. & P. 500 SECTORS, 2005 PERFORMANCEEnergy: +29.1Utilities: +12.8Health care: +4.9Financials: +3.7Materials: +2.2Consumer staples: +1.3Information technology: +0.4Industries: +0.4Consumer discretionary: -7.4Telecommunications services: -9.1Timeline tracks daily closes of Standard & Poor's 500 over 2005.FEB. 22Crude oil prices surge 5.8 percent, jumping above $51 a barrel.MARCH 15Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chief executive and chairman of WorldCom, is convicted of fraud, conspiracy and filing false statements with regulators. He is later sentenced to 25 years in prison.MAY 5The credit ratings of General Motors and Ford are cut to below investment grade.JULY 21China says that it will no longer peg its currency strictly to the dollar.AUG. 29Three days after passing over Florida, Hurricane Katrina hits the Gulf Coast.SEPT. 19L. Dennis Kozlowski, former chief executive of Tyco International, and Mark H. Swartz, former chief financial officer, are sentenced to 81/3 to 25 years in prison for fraud, conspiracy and grand larceny.OCT. 24Ben S. Bernanke is nominated to succeed Alan Greenspan as chairman of the Federal Reserve.NOV. 29Gold prices rise above $500 an ounce for the first time since 1987. The Dow industrials flirt with 11,000 -- a level not seen since 2001.True BreadthFor the third straight year, more than half of the 500 stocks in the S. & P. 500 posted gains, a feat the market did not achieve in either 1998 or 1999, when large-capitalization stocks and those of technology companies were driving indexes to new highs. For the sixth consecutive year, the equal-weighted S. & P. 500, which assumes equal investments in each stock in the index, did better than the index as normally computed, with investments based on market size.Graph tracks the S. & P. 500 (capital and price weighted) change since the end of 1995.Defying ExpectationsFor the last three years, oil prices have ended the year higher. While investors previously assumed that prices would decline significantly going forward, they were not as confident as 2005 ended. Short-term rates have risen in recent years in response to actions by the Federal Reserve, but long-term rate have declined, confounding experts.Graph tracks oil futures (months and years out) since 2002.Graph tracks treasury yield curves (maturity in months and years) since 2003.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6)Chart:INTEREST RATES IN 2005U.S. 3-mo. Treasury2005 CLOSE: 4.08%CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: +1.86U.S. 10-yr. Treasury2005 CLOSE: 4.39CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: +0.17U.S. AA-corps. (7-10 yrs.)2005 CLOSE: 5.11CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: +0.34U.S. BBB-corps. (7-10 yrs.)2005 CLOSE: 5.72CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: +0.57U.S. high-yield corporates2005 CLOSE: 8.16CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: +1.22JAPAN 10-yr. Govt.2005 CLOSE: 1.48CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: +0.04GERMANY 10-yr. Govt.2005 CLOSE: 3.31CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: -0.37BRITAIN 10-yr. Govt.2005 CLOSE: 4.41CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: -0.13CURRENCIES IN 2005BRITAIN pound in dollars

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BONDS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); YIELD CURVE (69%); DEVALUATION (67%); EURO (65%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006



52 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MONEY & INVESTING 2006; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1681 words

HEADLINE: Risks Ahead As Policies (And Money) Tighten in '06

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
This is the year that the world's major economies will have learn to live without easy money. 
 The Federal Reserve has already significantly tightened monetary policy in the United States. The European Central Bank raised interest rates last month for the first time since 2000, and will probably lift them again. And after nearly five years of zero percent interest rates, the Bank of Japan is expected to embark on a cautious tightening of policy -- not necessarily by lifting rates, but by cutting back on its purchase of government bonds from Japanese banks, which pumps yen into the market.
These moves will have far-reaching consequences for the world economy, as well as for financial markets. Economic activity in the United States, Europe and Asia has been lubricated by loose credit since 2001, when the collapse of technology stocks led to an easing of monetary policy.
 Removing this stimulus without choking off growth in Europe and Japan or taking the wind out of the housing market in the United States will be an exceedingly delicate, if not risky, task. 
 ''This is a high-wire act,'' said Thomas Mayer, the chief European economist at Deutsche Bank in London. ''The global economy has been propped up by huge liquidity. The question is, How do you take this liquidity out of the economy without the whole thing crashing down?''
 Very carefully, central bankers in Washington, Frankfurt or Tokyo might well answer.
 None of the three banks is acting aggressively, and two of them, the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan, seem prepared to rethink their plans if economic conditions suddenly deteriorate. While the Federal Reserve has left itself room for further rate increases, it is believed to be nearing the end of this cycle after raising the rate to 4.25 percent in 13 consecutive quarter-point increases.
 The good news, analysts say, is that the world has a fair amount of momentum as it heads into 2006. Propelled by a fast-growing Asia and a still-vibrant United States, the global economy could expand 4.5 percent this year, according to Deutsche Bank. That is roughly on par with 2005.
 While housing prices in the United States may have peaked, the economy remains vigorous, and consumer spending is likely to get a fillip from the easing of oil prices. Deutsche Bank forecasts that the American economy will expand 3.9 percent in 2006, a shade more than last year. Other economists expect less robust growth, on the order of around 3.3 percent, compared with this year's expected 3.7 percent.
 Growth is also likely to accelerate in Asia, thanks to a reinvigorated Japan and the continuing boom in China. The Chinese economy will expand nearly 9 percent in 2006, only slightly less than last year, according to a forecast by the Asian Development Bank. 
 Even Europe, which fell short of expectations last year, may perk up in 2006, thanks to continued strong demand for its exports -- from China, as well as from traditional markets like the United States -- and signs that Germany's long-dormant consumers are stirring.
 There are caveats to this upbeat scenario. A sharp decline in real estate prices in the United States, rather than the expected gradual softening, would crimp consumer spending. That would hurt both Europe and China, which ships 40 percent of its exports to the ravenous American market.
 A slowdown in China's export-led economy, either because of internal political pressure or external resistance, would also reverberate globally. China's relentless rise as a low-cost manufacturer has helped the global economy in a number of ways, not least by driving down inflation.
 ''For the last three years, we've had a two-engine world: the Chinese producer and the American consumer,'' said Stephen S. Roach, the chief economist at Morgan Stanley. ''Both engines are going to slow down. The debate will be whether this two-engine global 747 is in danger of stalling.''
 Sometimes regarded as an economic Cassandra, Mr. Roach is not actually predicting such a calamity. But he says that there are risks. If China's exports continue to boom, China will face rising pressure from the United States to further revalue its currency, the yuan -- a move that could start to reorient its economy from exports to its vast domestic market.
 ''Everybody still embraces China as a perma-growth story,'' Mr. Roach said. ''But that will be challenged in 2006.''
 A renewed weakness in the dollar, which Mr. Roach expects this year, would put pressure on American consumers because it would make imports more costly. That, in turn, could threaten the sky-high housing market, without which, he said, ''the American consumer is toast.''
 In any case, the lopsided trade relationship between China and the United States will likely re-emerge as the decisive factor in the value of the dollar. The dollar's resilience proved to be one of the major surprises of last year. It declined sharply against the euro, yen and other currencies in 2004, and Mr. Roach and others expected it to fall further in 2005.
 The United States, after all, is running a quarterly current-account deficit -- the broadest measure of its balance of trade -- of nearly $200 billion, which most economists view as unsustainable.
 Instead, the dollar staged a rebound, driven in part by the widening gap in interest rates between the United States and Europe and Japan. The euro was also weaker because of Europe's anemic economic performance, the deadlocked German elections and the rejection of the European Union's proposed constitution by voters in France and the Netherlands.
 Now, with Europe and Japan reviving and with the Federal Reserve perceived as nearing the end of its tightening cycle, analysts predict that the dollar will resume its downward course against the euro and the yen. They note, too, that the current-account deficit is coming back into focus.
 ''Investors will once again take this risk into account,'' said Michael Schubert, a currency analyst with Commerzbank. ''The only thing we know about the current-account deficit is that it can't go on forever.''
 Mr. Schubert forecasts that the dollar will trade at $1.28 versus the euro by the end of this year; it is currently $1.185. He said the yen's value would hinge on the actions of the Bank of Japan, while the Chinese would modestly revalue the yuan, having done so once last summer.
 A weaker dollar could help American stocks, Mr. Mayer said, because it would make American exporters more competitive. But with the uncertain prospects for consumer spending, it might be difficult for American markets to match their buoyant performance of recent years.
 Conversely, a rising euro would not be welcome in Europe, which relies heavily on exports. Morgan Stanley expects European stock markets, after a remarkable rally in 2005, to stagnate this year, especially with corporate profits already high and interest rates starting to climb.
 Repeating the performance of 2005 will be especially difficult in Germany. The DAX stock index, which includes big names like DaimlerChrysler, Volkswagen and Siemens, rose more than 30 percent -- a sprightly pace utterly at odds with the country's sluggish economy.
 Despite the muscular euro, Germany demonstrated in 2005 that it could maintain its title as the world's top exporter of manufactured goods. One factor was China's demand for heavy machinery and other products. But German companies, analysts said, also improved their competitiveness generally by cutting costs and keeping a lid on wage increases.
 ''The success of Germany's export sector has been remarkable, and I think it's quite likely to continue,'' said Michael Heise, the chief economist at Dresdner Bank and Allianz in Frankfurt.
 The question is whether stricter monetary policy will strangle Europe. Despite a few rays of hope, consumer demand in Germany remains weak. Italy has been skirting recession and France is saddled with double-digit unemployment, which some blame for the recent surge of urban unrest there.
 European politicians have vigorously protested the central bank's recent shift in policy, saying that the continent's economies are still too fragile. They say that the bank has also overestimated the threat of inflation, particularly since oil prices have moderated after surging for much of 2005.
 In fact, tighter monetary policy on three continents could help keep the price of crude oil in check this year.
 ''Part of the run-up in oil prices was a reflection that there was a lot of monetary stimulus in the market,'' Mr. Mayer said. ''Taking some of that out of the market could take the air out of oil prices.''
 Deutsche Bank forecasts that oil prices will ease after the winter, though the average price per barrel may end up the same this year as last. By the end of 2006, it projects a reduction in prices as demand moderates and OPEC members increase their production capacity.
 With the retirement of Alan Greenspan this month -- and the arrival of Ben S. Bernanke as the new Fed chairman -- and with the major central banks moving in tandem to tighten credit, 2006 promises to be an eventful year for those who watch these institutions.
 ''The Greenspan era has coincided with a period when the global economy has made the job of a central banker easier,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a professor of economics and public policy at Harvard.
 The curse of high inflation has receded, he said, because the competition from low-cost producers like China has driven down the prices of so many goods. That is why the economic health of China -- just like that of the United States -- is a matter of concern to everybody.
 ''China has made everything run better,'' Mr. Rogoff said. ''If it were to collapse, Ben Bernanke might be in the uncomfortable position of having to set interest rates much higher than he expected.''

 Euro: +24.9

Japan
Dollar: +24.1%
Yen: +42.9

China
Dollar: +15.9%
Yuan: +15.6

Emerging Markets
Dollar: +30.3%
Others: +31.5

*Weighted average of currencies relevant to the stocks in the indexes

(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)

GRAPHIC: Photo (pg. C1)Chart: ''The Dollar Recovers''After weakening sharply against the euro and the yen during 2003 and 2004, the dollar rebounded in 2005.Graph tracks change in dollar's value against the yen and euro from 2003-2005.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Stock Markets Gain Around the Globe''Total returns as measured by Morgan Stanley Capital International indexes, in local currencies and dollars, plotted weekly.All-country stock index excluding the United StatesDollar: +13.9%Others: +26.5BritainDollar: + 3.7%Pound: +16.0Europe excluding BritainDollar: + 8.1%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); BONDS (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (84%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (60%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); DEUT (JSE) (84%); DBK (FRA) (84%); DBK (BIT) (84%); DBETN (JSE) (84%); DBA (ASX) (84%); DB (NYSE) (84%); ATB (ASX) (60%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006



53 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: A Dispute Underscores the New Power of Gas 

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
The dispute between Russia and Ukraine over natural gas supplies has implications for the fast-evolving international trade in natural gas.
 While Gazprom, Russia's state-controlled energy behemoth, said on Monday that it would resume pipeline shipments of natural gas across Ukraine to customers in Europe, its ability to rattle nerves during the European winter served as a reminder of the growing influence of countries rich in natural gas reserves.
 Global demand for natural gas, which is generally cleaner-burning than other fossil fuels, is soaring. 
 Governments in gas-rich countries and international energy companies are racing to meet that demand with ambitious projects to transport natural gas to industrialized countries by pipeline or in tankers. The global oil market developed along similar lines decades ago, laying bare the risks in the United States and Europe of relying on imported oil from politically unpredictable countries.
 ''This further underlies the need for greater diversity of supply and more storage capacity for natural gas,'' said Daniel Yergin, chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates. ''Gas-importing countries will recognize the need to build in buffers.''
 At first glance, this newly robust international natural gas market would appear to put Russia in a strong bargaining position. Russia has the largest natural gas reserves, with 1,700 trillion cubic feet of the fuel, or 27 percent of the world's total, according to BP, the British oil and gas giant. Just two other countries rival Russia in natural gas reserves, Iran, with 971 trillion cubic feet, and Qatar, with 910 trillion cubic feet.
 But analysts say concern over creating too much dependence on Russian gas -- or natural gas from any one country, for that matter -- may propel large gas-consuming nations to consider importing the fuel from a variety of sources or switching to other fuels for heat and electricity. 
 For instance, Finland, which shares a border with Russia, is moving ahead with plans to build the world's largest nuclear reactor, a move that would lessen its reliance on imported Russian natural gas.
 The concentration of European natural gas imports from Russia may be why the threat of cutting off gas exports across the Ukraine evoked cold war-era fears, when the United States fretted about Europe's reliance on Russian gas. In fact, Russia, which has long viewed itself as a stable energy supplier to Europe, put energy security at the top of the agenda of the Group of 8, the club for the world's large developed economies. Russia assumed the chairmanship of the group this week.
 A more contemporary concern is related to the dispute's impact on large gas-exporting projects in Russia and elsewhere. Gazprom, for instance, has been aggressively promoting projects to export Russian natural gas to the United States. In a move that focuses attention on the scramble for natural resources in Arctic areas, Gazprom has ambitious plans to develop the Shtokman field, a large natural gas field in the Barents Sea, and sell that fuel in American markets.
 Two American energy companies, Chevron and ConocoPhillips, have been have been listed by Gazprom as possible partners in the Shtokman project, along with Total of France and Norsk Hydro and Statoil of Norway. Gazprom has also reached an agreement with Sempra Energy of San Diego to import Russian natural gas to markets in California and northern Mexico. Gazprom is believed to need the technical expertise and financial assistance of foreign partners to help develop the field.
 Still, concerns in the United States about becoming reliant on imported natural gas from Russia are probably premature. The United States imports much of its natural gas from Canada by pipeline and is expected to increase tanker imports of the fuel soon from countries like Qatar, Egypt and Angola. Russia, despite the potential of its gas reserves, is also still struggling to lift its energy industry to Western standards.
 ''Russia is reminding people that they're the powerhouse of natural gas resources, but it's a false promise,'' said Amy Myers Jaffe, associate director of the energy program at Rice University. ''They don't have their sector organized enough.''
 Indeed, the most immediate lesson of Russia's dispute with Ukraine may be that Russia and other natural gas producers are trying with varying degrees of success to raise the prices they charge for natural gas. This trend, which involves gas shipped by pipeline as well as in tankers, has to do with rising demand for the fuel in Britain, southern Europe and the United States.
 Customers for natural gas in Europe have outbid buyers in the United States in recent weeks for cargoes of liquefied natural gas, illustrating the fierce competition for supplies even as natural gas prices in the United States flirted with records after the damage from last year's hurricanes to natural gas platforms in the Gulf of Mexico.
 Until recently, the complexity and expense of cooling and condensing natural gas to a liquid so it can be transported in ships was an obstacle to the emergence of a vibrant market for liquefied natural gas. Signaling a shift in this market, though, a tanker of liquefied gas from Trinidad and Tobago in the Caribbean, the closest supplier of the fuel to the United States, was rerouted to Britain last month after its producer received a more attractive bid for its cargo despite relatively high transportation costs.
 Still, whether exporters transport their gas in tankers or pipelines, it has long proved difficult for gas-rich countries to exert lasting leverage over importing nations. In one example from the early 1980's, Algeria briefly cut off supplies to Italy over a pipeline across the Mediterranean Sea. That effort soon backfired on Algeria, however, costing it billions of dollars in lost export revenue.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Gazprom worker checking pipeline pressure at Pisarevskaya, Russia. (Photo by Viktor Korotayev/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); ENERGY RESEARCH (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (93%); IHS INC (69%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (93%); GAZP (RTS) (93%); IHS (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); FINLAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006



54 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Running on Empty

BYLINE: By Jerry Taylor and Peter Van Doren. 
Jerry Taylor and Peter Van Doren are senior fellows at the Cato Institute.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
THE rise in fuel prices that followed Hurricanes Katrina and Rita has prompted many members of Congress to call for new and expanded federal reserves of crude oil, diesel fuel, home heating oil, jet fuel and propane. Proponents of stockpiling claim that if the government were to hoard those commodities when prices were low, it could unleash them on the market when supplies are tight, thus dampening price increases and stabilizing the market. 
 But the experience in this country with the strategic petroleum reserve strongly suggests that such government-managed stockpiles are a waste of taxpayers' money. Rather than increasing the stockpile, the reserve should be emptied and closed. 
Public stockpiles are far more expensive to maintain than many analysts realize. For example, after adjusting for inflation, the petroleum reserve has cost federal taxpayers as much as $51 billion since it was created in 1975. If you divide that sum by the amount of oil in the reserve, that's $80 per barrel by the end of 2003. 
 Of course, even at that price, some would argue that the reserve is still worthwhile under certain circumstances. That's because many economists maintain that it's not the cost of oil that harms the economy during a price spike, but the microeconomic uncertainty caused by supply disruptions, the costs of adjusting to high prices and the political reaction to soaring energy prices. If large volumes of federal oil were released at the early stage of a supply shock, it could temper those effects. 
 But the government has never employed the reserve in this manner and probably never will. Politicians are simply too loath to risk a premature release of public crude because one can never know how long a supply disruption might last, how high prices might climb or whether additional disruptions are on the horizon. 
 In its 30-year history, the 700-million-barrel reserve, which was recently authorized by Congress to expand to 1 billion barrels, has been tapped only three major times: 21 million barrels were released at the onset of the Persian Gulf war in the early 1990's, 30 million barrels in September 2000 and 24 million barrels last year after Hurricane Katrina struck. Those releases were so small considering the size of the reserve that one wonders why politicians are so dead set on having a billion barrels.
 Another reason for the reluctance to tap the reserve is the widespread belief that it should be maintained as a hedge against an embargo like the one America experienced in 1973. But embargoes are not the powerful ''oil weapon'' that people think they are. Once a producer sells its oil on the world market, that oil can be bought, sold and rerouted repeatedly. The producer cannot control the oil's ultimate destination. The globalization of oil markets ensures that the United States will always have access to Persian Gulf oil whether OPEC members like it or not.
 But what if, instead of an embargo, there was a catastrophic disruption in supply, say the kind that might occur were Al Qaeda to seize power in Saudi Arabia? That scenario is worrisome, but the reserve would not be able to do much. No public stockpile would ever be large enough to deal with such a huge disruption. For instance, even if all of the oil in the reserve were released in 2004, it would have amounted to only 2.6 percent of the world supply -- nowhere near enough to replace the oil from a major producer on a sustained basis. Building a reserve large enough to replace Saudi production would prove outrageously expensive. 
 Fortunately, it is highly unlikely that political motivations would lead an oil producing state to cut its production so drastically. Those nations need oil money as much or more than oil-consuming nations need the oil. Even anti-American regimes like Iran's and Venezuela's have no interest in economic suicide by suspending oil production.
 Regardless, getting rid of the public petroleum reserve would not mean destroying all oil reserves. Private oil inventories are three times larger than public inventories and would be even larger if investors didn't have to worry about the government flooding the market with public oil during a price spike. Inventories, after all, are costly to maintain and will only be profitable if market actors can ''sell high'' during a price increase. 
 In fact, economists agree that every barrel of oil we put in the public reserve displaces oil that might otherwise have gone into private inventories. How much displacement occurs is unclear, but there is little doubt that it's significant. 
 If the reserve is thought of as an insurance policy against high prices, the cost of the policy has been more expensive than the dangers the stockpile is meant to prevent. Americans should resist the drive to expand public stockpiles. Instead, we should sell while the selling is good.


GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (91%); HEATING OIL (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); HURRICANES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); JET FUEL (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PROPANE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); DESERT STORM (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006



55 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: A Fair Day's Pay

 BODY:
The federal minimum wage has been a paltry $5.15 an hour for more than eight years. Polls show that there is strong popular support for raising it, but Congress has resisted. Unions, community groups and advocates for the poor are increasingly taking the matter directly to voters through state referendums to raise their states' minimum wages, according to an article yesterday in The Times. Their intentions are laudable, but the efforts only highlight Congress's failure to set the federal minimum wage at a reasonable level. 
 The federal minimum wage got its start in 1938, when the Fair Labor Standards Act required the employers it covered to pay workers at least 25 cents an hour. Because the law is not indexed for inflation, Congress has to pass legislation to increase the minimum wage. Its record of doing this is disappointing. The last time the minimum rose was in September 1997. Since then, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the minimum wage's purchasing power has fallen more than 15 percent. It is now less than one-third of the average wage for private nonsupervisory workers -- the lowest percentage in 56 years.
Keeping the minimum wage at a reasonable level has appeal across the political spectrum. Liberals see a higher minimum wage as a way to lift the working poor out of poverty and narrow the gap between rich and poor. Many conservatives see it as a way to reward work. In a 2005 Pew Research Center poll, 86 percent of respondents, including 79 percent of social conservatives, supported increasing the minimum wage to $6.45 an hour.
 But the idea has some influential opponents. Business interests, led by the restaurant industry, have lobbied to keep the minimum wage low. Some free-market conservatives, heirs to the original opponents of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, oppose it on ideological grounds. In recent years, these forces have prevailed. The same Congress that has passed huge tax cuts for wealthy individuals and corporations has consistently refused to help those on the other side of the economic divide.
 In 2004, supporters of a higher minimum wage had impressive success in statewide votes. In Florida and Nevada -- both states that went for President Bush -- voters passed referendums to increase their states' minimum wage laws by margins of roughly 70 to 30 percent. This year, there may be ballot initiatives in seven states, including Ohio and Michigan (and Nevada will vote again). Some political analysts say the initiatives could help Democratic Congressional candidates by drawing low-income voters to the polls, just as referendums in 2004 to oppose gay marriage helped the turnout of Republican-leaning voters who are religious conservatives.
 State minimum-wage referendums are not ideal. Policy matters of this kind are best handled by legislatures, and the nation would be better off with a uniform federal standard. But given where the federal minimum wage now stands, state-level initiatives are the only game in town. Those grass-roots debates may shame Congress into taking long-overdue action to help the lowest-paid workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); AFFLUENT MARKET (63%); MARRIAGE (50%); RESTAURANTS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006



56 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: NEW RULES SET FOR GIVING OUT ANTITERROR AID

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

 BODY:
Facing cuts in antiterrorism financing, the Department of Homeland Security plans to announce today that it will evaluate new requests for money from an $800 million aid program for cities based less on politics and more on assessments of where terrorists are likely to strike and potentially cause the greatest damage, department officials say.
 The changes to the program, the Urban Area Security Initiative, are being driven in part by a reduction in the overall pool of money for antiterrorism efforts. For 2006, Congress has appropriated $120 million less in these urban grants than for 2005. 
Domestic security grants in general, including the urban area ones, have been criticized because they have sent more antiterrorism money per capita to sparsely populated states like Wyoming and Alaska than to states like New York and California. 
 The shift in policy, to be announced by Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, could mean less antiterrorism aid for the 50 cities that received money last year under the program. Or, as is more likely, the department could reduce the number of cities on the list or cut grants for cities deemed at lower risk.
 Until the application process is under way, it is unclear what the impact may be in cities now receiving money under the program, including New York.
 Set up after the 2001 terrorist attacks, the Homeland Security Department's local and state grant programs have drawn repeated criticism from members of Congress and budget watchdog groups because the early emphasis on spreading the money around resulted in tens of millions of dollars going to some communities where, critics said, the terrorist threat was not as urgent as elsewhere.
 Examples cited in recent testimony to Congress include $557,400 awarded to North Pole, Alaska, a city of about 1,700 residents, to buy rescue and communications equipment, and $500,000 to Outagamie County, Wis., population 165,000, to buy chemical suits, rescue saws, disaster-response trailers, emergency lighting and a bomb disposal vehicle.
 Mr. Chertoff, in a speech last month, said the changes he was considering would require an acknowledgment that the nation could not protect itself against all risks.
 ''That means tough choices,'' he said. ''And choices mean focusing on the risks which are the greatest. And that means some risks get less focus.'' 
 Officials from some smaller American cities that have received grants said they deserved a reasonable share of the antiterrorism aid.
 ''We certainly are much smaller than a city like New York or Los Angeles,'' said Don Thorson, administrator for the grant program in Omaha.
 But, Mr. Thorson said: ''We still are an urban area. And we still have risks. No one can predict where a terrorist might strike. Look where Timothy McVeigh struck. It was Oklahoma City.''
 Omaha received $5.1 million last year, which it used to buy bomb suits and communications equipment, among other items.
 Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York, who is chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, said the shift properly made risk a more meaningful factor in allocating the money. 
 ''The more risk-based they can make it, the better,'' Mr. King said. ''It sends a message to Congress that homeland security is a serious matter, it is not a public works project, that we are not going down the pork-barrel road. That is vital.''
 Homeland Security officials would not offer predictions of what the likely outcome would be in terms of how many cities would see their grants eliminated or cut significantly.
 The Urban Area Security Initiative represents $765 million of the $2.5 billion budgeted in the 2006 fiscal year for state and local antiterrorism programs. A separate Homeland Security grant program, which gives money directly to states, has been allocated $550 million by Congress this fiscal year. That money will still be distributed, in part, based on a formula that sets a minimum for each state. But for the first time, money not obligated by this formula will be distributed based on risk.
 When the Urban Area Security grants were first announced in 2003, only seven cities were given money: New York, Washington, Los Angeles, Seattle, Chicago, San Francisco and Houston. But the list quickly grew to 30 cities and finally to 50 as more cities were deemed eligible for the grants. 
 Last year, even though the number of cities remained about the same, a much larger share of the money went to the biggest cities, with New York getting $207.5 million, compared with $49.7 million in 2004.
 The system to be unveiled today evaluates applications for aid based on how well cities meet emergency preparedness standards recently established by the Homeland Security Department.
 The standards include detailed steps that local and state governments would be required to take in response to potential threats, like the release of the nerve agent Sarin in office buildings or the truck bombing of a sports arena. The applications will also be ranked based on a significantly expanded database that the agency has set up to try to objectively measure the risk level in each city, department officials said. The database includes, for example, an inventory of high-profile government buildings and major structures like bridges, as well as daily ridership on a subway system and how many subway stations a city system has.
 Risk is defined as a combination of the perceived threat, the vulnerability of a particular city or asset, and the consequences of an attack.
 ''The system before was fairly Neanderthalic,'' one Homeland Security official said, on condition on anonymity because he did not want to pre-empt Mr. Chertoff's announcement. ''It was very, very sophomoric.''
 Mr. Chertoff has made clear that he expects protests when the final grant awards are announced.
 ''To each individual, the risks that touch him or her personally are the most urgent and of greatest concern,'' he said in his speech last month. ''But I know you also know that as someone who has responsibility for making decisions that touch on all Americans, I have to weigh, with limited resources, the allocation of resources based on the greatest risk, and that means some people are going to be disappointed.''
 The prospect of increased competition for the money comes as no surprise to officials in some smaller cities. 
 ''We anticipated there would be a point soon where Bush would be concerned about throwing so much money out there,'' said Samuel Simon, director of public safety in St. Louis. 
 The city received $7 million last year, money spent -- wisely, Mr. Simon said -- to prepare for the possibility of a pandemic flu outbreak or small-scale terrorist attack.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERTERRORISM (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); CITIES (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (58%); PETER T KING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006



57 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Facing Criticism, Russia Restores Gas to Ukraine
Faced with unexpected criticism from its natural gas customers across Western Europe, Russia restored most of the gas it withheld from Ukraine's pipeline system a day earlier in a pricing dispute. The reduced pressure in the pipeline system caused a cascading energy emergency that moved westward across Europe, as one utility after another reported dropping gas pressures. A1

Argentina to Repay Debt 

Argentina is expected to pay off the last of its debt to the International Monetary Fund and simply walk away from further negotiations with the group that many Argentines believe was responsible for the policies that led to its economic crisis of 2001. This is just one of several recent signs that President Nestor Kirchner appears to be concentrating more power in his own hands and steering his government to the left. A1

German Rink Collapse Kills 10
The roof of an ice skating rink collapsed under the weight of a heavy snowfall in the Bavarian resort town of Bad Reichenhall in southern Germany, killing at least 10 people, including two children. Others are missing and are feared to be trapped under the wreckage. A8

Sudanese Released Into Cairo
Hundreds of Sudanese have been released from police detention camps onto the streets of Cairo with no money, no place to live -- and in many cases, no shoes -- three days after the riot police attacked a squatter camp set up as a protest to press the United Nations to relocate the migrants to another country. A3

U.N. Seeks Syrian President
A United Nations team investigating the assassination of the former Lebanese prime minister Rafik Hariri has asked to interview the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, left, and the foreign minister, Farouk al-Sharaa, in the inquiry into the killing. A3

Palestinians May Delay Vote
The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, raised for the first time the possibility of delaying legislative elections this month, saying the vote would be impossible if Israel did not allow residents of East Jerusalem to participate. A6

Sunnis Close to Agreement
The largest Sunni Arab political group in Iraq unexpectedly moved close to agreement with Kurdish leaders on a broad framework for a coalition government and also said it would abandon claims that national elections last month had been rigged, once international election monitors finish their review of the allegations. A10

NATIONAL A12-15

Cuts in Antiterror Money Put Focus on Cities' Need
Facing overall cuts in antiterrorism funds, the Department of Homeland Security plans to announce that it will evaluate new requests for money from an $800 million program of aid to cities based less on politics and more on assessments of where terrorists are likely to strike, department officials said. A1

Explosion Traps 13 Miners
A thunderous explosion in an underground mine in West Virginia trapped 13 coal miners behind a wall of rubble more than a mile from the mine shaft opening. A1

Uneven Start to Drug Program
Some Medicare beneficiaries were pleasantly surprised and saved money, but others were frustrated this week as the prescription drug benefit got off to an uneven start across the country. A12

Storms Drench Rose Parade
A storm that caused severe flooding and mudslides in Northern California turned the Rose Parade into a rain-drenched affair for thousands of spectators who braved a heavy downpour. A12

Fires Burn On in Southwest
Grass fires continued to vex drought-stricken Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico, with Oklahoma City hit particularly hard. Firefighters there fought 35 grass fires within the city limits. Texas officials reported 58 new fires within 24 hours, including one in Montague County on the northern border that required the evacuation of two nursing homes, one hospital and 3,200 residents of the city of Nocona. A14

Swaying Opinion on Nominee
In the final days before hearings on the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr., partisans on both sides are pulling out all the stops in an effort to sway public opinion. Moving beyond Judge Alito's judicial record, a coalition of liberal groups is preparing commercials attacking his personal integrity and credibility. Conservatives are capitalizing on ethnic pride to rally Italian-American support for Judge Alito. A14

Louisiana Opens I-10 Bridge
The State of Louisiana and a contractor were able to open ahead of time one of two spans of Interstate 10, which was broken into pieces above Lake Pontchartrain by Hurricane Katrina, by cannibalizing one bridge to fix the other. Steel spans are being used to repair the other bridge, and traffic could be flowing as early as Friday. A12

Doctor's Advice on Adoption
Unlike adoption from the American foster care system, which is tightly regulated, international adoption remains a free-for-all. Given the growing understanding among adoption experts of the health risks facing orphans in certain developing countries, doctors in the growing field of adoption medicine are helping assess children before adoption and meet their medical and developmental needs afterward. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Two Men in Small Plane Rescued After River Crash
A small plane carrying two New Jersey men lost power and landed in the Hudson River near Yonkers, but the men treaded water and clung to debris for 15 to 20 minutes in the frigid river and were pulled to safety by Coast Guard and New York police helicopter rescue teams. B1

Quinn Backed for Council Post
Councilwoman Christine C. Quinn received the support of the powerful Democratic organizations in Queens, the Bronx and Brooklyn, all but ensuring that she will become the next speaker of the City Council. B1

Dissidents Urge a No Vote
A handful of executive board members and workers from the city's transit workers' union accused their president, Roger Toussaint, of making too many concessions in the settlement he signed last week with the M.T.A., and urged fellow members to reject the contract that was approved by the union's executive board last week. B2

Neediest Cases B4

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-6

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES B7

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Agriculture Policy Criticized
The Department of Agriculture has failed to regulate field trials of genetically engineered crops adequately, raising the risk of unintended environmental consequences, according to a stinging report issued by the department's own auditor. F2

Health & Fitness F7

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Will Wall Street Hit or Miss?
The consensus of Wall Street analysts suggests that as 2006 begins, the American housing boom is going to weaken, if not collapse, but it will not severely hurt the economy. Recent forecasts, however, have seemed more likely to miss than to hit, a fact investors might want to take into account. C1

Tighter Monetary Policy
This year the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan are tightening monetary policy, which may effect the world economy by limiting borrowing. C1

Defying Realtor Dominance
Christie Miller and Mary Clare Murphy operate one of the largest for-sale-by-owner home Web sites inthe country. They have turned Madison, Wisc., a city of 208,000, into a competitive place for real estate listings, challenging Realtor associations' dominance of home sales. A1

Starz Offers 'Vongo' Service
Starz Entertainment Group is introducing Vongo, a $9.95-a-month subscription service that will allow people to download movies from the Internet and watch them on their computers, portable video players and television sets. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: A fair day's pay; diplomacy's fleeting moment in Korea; Adam Cohen on Judge Alito and the principle of one person one vote.

Column: John Tierney.

Crossword E6
TV Listings E9
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (88%); COUNTERTERRORISM (87%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ASSASSINATION (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); UNDERGROUND MINING (73%); TERRORISM (72%); RELOCATIONS (71%); WEATHER (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); RIOTS (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (68%); ELECTION FRAUD (68%); WINTER SPORTS (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); ELECTION MONITORING (62%); COAL MINING (60%); ICE SKATING (53%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: NESTOR KIRCHNER (55%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (54%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (77%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UKRAINE (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); SYRIA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GERMANY (92%); EGYPT (90%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006



58 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: I-10, Another Victim of the Storm, Enjoys a Quick Rebirth 

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
It was one of the most memorable images in the wake of Hurricane Katrina: the twin spans of Interstate 10 over Lake Pontchartrain impossibly broken into pieces, their 260-ton slabs tossed into the water like gigantic mah-jongg tiles by the storm surge.
 But amid all the things that have gone wrong on the Gulf Coast, the repair of the crucial highway has gone unusually right, coming in ahead of time and under budget. By cannibalizing one bridge to fix the other, and then using temporary steel spans to fix the first bridge, the State of Louisiana and the contractor were able to open one span in October and plan to have traffic flowing on the other as early as Jan. 6, nearly two weeks ahead of schedule. 
 With the bridges torn apart, a major artery of transportation joining New Orleans and Slidell was cut off. 
 I-10 is one of three coast-to-coast interstates that link the entire nation, stretching from Jacksonville to Los Angeles; the broken spans were an affront to the Jack Kerouac sensibility of a vast nation united by its long ribbons of concrete.
 Drivers of all kinds are delighted to have their route back; Mike Smid, president of Roadway Express, a major commercial trucking company, said he had assumed there would be east-west backups throughout the winter.
 ''I would say we're at least six months surprised,'' Mr. Smid said. ''I would characterize it between exceptional and heroic.''
 Road damage from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita was widespread across coastal Louisiana and Mississippi. In Congressional testimony in October, Johnny B. Bradberry, the Louisiana transportation secretary, estimated the cost of repairing and replacing the state's damaged roads, bridges, public ports, airports, railroads and other transportation systems at $5.5 billion. 
 But one of the highest priorities was getting the Interstate open, and doing so quickly required creative thinking, dedication and no small amount of luck. ''From the first day, it's really required some ingenuity,'' said Mark Lambert, a spokesman for the Transportation Department. ''They've constantly had to improvise.''
 The work was financed by the Federal Highway Administration, which advised Louisiana on the project. Norman Y. Mineta, the federal transportation secretary, said through a spokeswoman that the project was ''serving as a model for the kinds of efficiencies we should try to achieve in all gulf rebuilding projects.''
 The state issued a request for competitive bids on the project just 11 days after the storm, Mr. Bradberry said, and made a decision on the same Friday afternoon that the bids were reviewed. Workers swarmed the bridge the next morning and have worked around the clock since. 
 The winning contractor, Boh Brothers Construction, was working under difficult circumstances; its own offices in New Orleans were damaged by the storm, and the company worked out of temporary quarters in Baton Rouge. Many of the company's workers had lost their own homes, and hundreds had disappeared, most likely to other cities and other jobs.
 The company housed some of its workers in its own facilities, and gave others a housing allowance for the first three months after the storm, said Robert S. Boh, the company president. ''The goal was just to get people over the initial hardship and get them to where they could get their families squared away and keep working,'' he said.
 Speed was crucial: the company would earn $75,000 for each day before the deadline that it finished the first span, but would suffer a $75,000 penalty for each day after Oct. 31 that the work on the first span dragged on. 
 The initial assessment showed about 400 feet of open or broken pavement on the 5.4-mile bridges. More than 60 of the 65-foot slabs were damaged beyond repair. The eastbound span had suffered the least damage, and in order to move quickly, the company took undamaged slabs from the westbound span and moved them over to the other bridge.
 The plan was ingenious, and had been successfully tested before in Florida, where another span of I-10, the Escambia Bay Bridge near Pensacola, had taken a hit from Hurricane Ivan in 2004. Louisiana hired Volkert Construction Services, the same engineering company that had done the work in Florida, as a consultant on the job. 
 Hurricane Rita set the crews back by the better part of a week, but Boh Brothers still beat the deadline for Phase 1 by 16 days, earning the company a bonus of $1.1 million, the most it could get, in the process. The cost of that Phase 1 work was about $31 million -- nearly $20 million less than the state's initial estimate. Since late October, there has been two-way traffic on the single completed bridge. 
 Filling in the gaps in the westbound bridge required quick work by Acrow, a company based in Parsippany, N.J., that makes quick-construction bridges. Each missing slab has been replaced by a temporary steel bridge, leaving a patchwork of concrete and trestle that led Mr. Lambert, of the State Transportation Department, to admit that ''it's an odd-looking bridge now.'' He added, however, that the finished bridge would fully support the weight of traffic. 
 Mr. Boh said that the fact that the job was performed by a New Orleans contractor was a tremendous source of pride for his workers, and for the state.
 ''This is a case where local people stepped in to really help get their city back in shape,'' Mr. Boh said. Louisianans should be pleased, he said, that the state did not have to use outside help. ''If the local people can do it, that's better,'' he said. ''We need to stabilize our economy down here.''
 Congress has appropriated up to $629 million for a sturdier bridge to replace the 43-year-old twin span; it would broaden the crossing to six lanes from four, with spans that will sit considerably higher than the old bridge. Planning has already begun, Mr. Bradberry said.
 ''We're blowing and going on that thing,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Interstate 10 bridge over Lake Pontchartrain is undergoing final repairs after being ravaged by Hurricane Katrina's storm surge. (Photo by Eros Hoagland for The New York Times)
 A look at some of the destruction on the I-10 bridge on Aug. 30, the day after the hurricane. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); BUDGETS (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (74%); TRUCKING (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOH BROTHERS CONSTRUCTION CO LLC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324121 ASPHALT PAVING MIXTURE & BLOCK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2951 ASPHALT PAVING MIXTURES & BLOCKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006



59 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Provider of Movies on Cable Looks To Expand to PC's and Video Players

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
Starz Entertainment Group is introducing a $9.95-a-month subscription service that will allow people to download movies from the Internet and watch them on their computers, portable video players and television sets.
 The new offering, called Vongo, comes at a time when movie studios and television networks are rapidly expanding their efforts to distribute their content over the Internet, experimenting with both paid and advertiser-supported models.
''We see a market out there of people who are saying, 'I want to choose what I want to watch, control how I watch it and watch it wherever I am,' '' said Robert Greene, a senior vice president at Starz, which operates pay movie channels under the Starz or Encore name and is owned by Liberty Media, the company controlled by John C. Malone, the cable entrepreneur. 
 Since 2004, Starz has offered a movie download subscription service, called Starz Ticket, using technology from RealNetworks. But the RealNetworks software does not allow movies to be downloaded to hand-held devices. With Vongo, Starz will shift to technology from Microsoft that will allow movies to be downloaded and watched on portable video players using Microsoft's software. 
 Until now, portable players have been costly and have found few buyers. But that is starting to change. Lower-priced players are expected to be introduced later this week at the International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. And of course, interest in portable video has soared with the Apple Computer video iPod, and the popularity of $1.99 episodes of TV shows sold at the iTunes online store. 
 Microsoft will promote the Vongo service in a coming release of its Media Player software. Separately, Starz will also offer Vongo through Sony's Connect download service. Until now, Connect has mainly sold music, but executives involved with Sony's plans say that this week the company will announce an expansion to video downloads as well.
 Starz, which is offering a test version of the service at Vongo.com, has so far not been able to work out an arrangement for Vongo to run on iPods. 
 This is a significant problem, said Josh Bernoff, an analyst with Forrester Research.
 The Microsoft Portable Media Center devices ''have not done particularly well so far,'' he said. ''They don't have the momentum that the iPod does.''
 He said there would be a modest market for Vongo, mainly among people who want to watch movies on their computers, or more likely on laptops while traveling.
 Apple is expected to offer some sort of expanded video offering at the MacWorld conference in San Francisco next week. While Apple is closed-mouthed about its plans, there is considerable speculation among industry analysts that Apple will introduce a device that will let people watch video from the Internet on their TV sets. 
 So far, however, Apple has not offered any subscription services for digital content (subscription services use technology that disables the music or video files on users' PC's and devices if they stop paying their monthly subscription bill). Indeed, Apple's chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, has been outspoken in his belief that consumers want to own rather than rent what they listen to and watch. 
 As a subscription service, Vongo will allow users to download as many movies as they want for $9.95 a month. They will be able to choose from an ever-changing roster of about 800 movies, including about 300 films in rotation on the Starz cable channel (mainly movies released in theaters one to three years earlier) and 500 older titles.
 Several years ago, when Starz renewed its long-term contracts with studios, including those owned by Sony and the Walt Disney Company, to put movies on its cable channels, it bought the rights to use them on the Internet as well. This means that other digital services cannot offer these movies in rental or subscription services during the period covered by the Starz contract.
 Most of the other studios sell their subscription rights to HBO or Showtime, which have been less active in digital distribution than Starz.
 How much interest consumers have in downloading movies remains to be seen. The legal online offerings so far -- Starz's subscription service and pay-per-view downloads from MovieLink and CinemaNow -- have attracted relatively few customers. (The pay services have to compete with illegal free trading in movie and television files over the Internet.) 
 Some argue that most Internet users are interested only in short video clips, like news reports and the humorous video oddities that ricochet across the Web.
 Yet Apple's early success in selling downloads of hourlong television programs, a service that began by offering the hit series ''Lost'' and ''Desperate Housewives'' for the video iPod, is changing that perception.
 Mr. Greene argued that Starz had learned from its earlier experience and thought that it now had the formula to attract more customers to download movies. 
 Vongo will be cheaper than Starz Ticket, which costs $12.95 a month and offers only about 300 movies. Vongo will also be adding some shorter original content, like music concerts and sports coverage.
 Starz will continue to offer the Starz Ticket service through RealNetworks, but will put all its promotional effort into Vongo. 
 Mr. Greene said that the new Microsoft-based service was easier for consumers to use and that the company's deal with Microsoft was more economically advantageous than its deal with RealNetworks, although he declined to be specific about the terms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); MOBILE MEDIA (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TRADE SHOWS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: STARZ LLC (90%); APPLE INC (85%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (90%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006



60 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MONEY & INVESTING 2006; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1998 words

HEADLINE: After a Resilient '05, Wall St. Isn't Counting Out '06

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
It was probably fitting that ''Chicken Little'' was a big movie in 2005. Everywhere investors looked, it seemed, the sky was on the verge of falling. 
 Wall Street worried as the Federal Reserve pushed short-term interest rates higher and the yield curve flattened. There were concerns that consumers would reduce spending as gasoline prices surged after Hurricane Katrina ravaged the Gulf Coast. All the while, many fretted about a bubble in housing and the impact if that bubble popped or slowly deflated.
But the economy proved more resilient than the worriers expected. Consumers continued to spend. The housing market did not collapse. Economic growth has been robust. And the stock market even had a year-end rally going -- with the Dow Jones industrial average flirting with 11,000 -- until it fizzled in the final weeks.
 So it is not surprising that Wall Street has muted the alarms about 2006. Over all, analysts are relatively bullish in their outlooks. But concerns remain about the health of consumer spending and the effects of higher interest rates. 
 Five Wall Street analysts who were surveyed predicted that the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which closed 2005 at 1,248.49, would end 2006 between 1,170 and 1,400. 

Ralph J. Acampora
Managing director of research
Knight Capital Group
 Ralph J. Acampora's market forecast for next year might be summarized as doom and boom. While he says he expects the stock market to rally between 5 and 7 percent in the first quarter, Mr. Acampora warns investors that they may be headed to a four-year low by the middle of 2006. 
 ''I expect a very noticeable decline of somewhere between 20 and 25 percent,'' he predicted. ''I am guesstimating that it will make a bottom or end in late third quarter.'' He is looking at a year-end S.& P. price of 1,170.
 One investor's bad news, however, can be another's buying opportunity. And Mr. Acampora sees the beginning of another bull run. ''Stocks could be awfully attractive,'' he said, speculating that investors will move toward large-cap equities and that growth stocks will outperform value. ''We are going to go crazy at this bottom.''
 Mr. Acampora, who accurately predicted in 1997 that the Dow would reach 10,000 by 1999, is a longtime forecaster but somewhat of a maverick among investment strategists. Instead of analyzing economic fundamentals, Mr. Acampora studies the market's trading momentum, and he says he firmly believes history supports his views.
 For one, the current bull market run is more than three and a half years old; over the past century, the market has experienced a major cycle every four years with the exception of the stock market crash of 1987, Mr. Acampora said. Moreover, the stock market typically declines in the second year of any president's administration.
 Mr. Acampora advises investors to sell their stocks in home builders, utilities and other businesses sensitive to interest rates within the first few months of the new year. 
 Investors should wait patiently until the market slumps, he says, and then buy technology growth stocks, which have lagged during the recent rise. In the meantime, investors can enjoy a relatively strong market, in which the Dow will surpass 11,000 early this year. ''This is a gift from God,'' Mr. Acampora. ''You got the last rally before your decline.''

Richard Bernstein
Chief United States strategist
Merrill Lynch
 The consensus view on Wall Street is that the Federal Reserve's interest rate increases will come to an end sometime early next year. But Richard Bernstein, widely known as a bear, argues that the Fed's work is far from over. 
 ''It is important to remember that the Fed has never -- never, never, never -- gotten a tightening cycle right,'' he said. ''I don't mean to sound overly negative, but the Fed will be tightening for longer than people think.'' 
 As a result, Mr. Bernstein expects a ''flattish market'' with a price target of 1,225 for the S.& P. 500, a slight decline from 2005. 
 Merrill Lynch projects very low single-digit corporate earnings growth of as much as 5 percent, based on its economic outlook.
 Mr. Bernstein is worried especially about the effect of higher interest rates on the global economy. 
 The rise in the price of gold suggests that inflation expectations are mounting rapidly. A flattened yield curve and major housing slowdown are the horizon. And then there is the tail-off in consumer spending. He predicts that could affect not just the American market, but could also spread to emerging economies.
 ''The U.S. consumer is 20 percent of the global economy and the primary buyer of goods from emerging markets,'' Mr. Bernstein said. ''If the U.S. consumer slows -- it doesn't have to implode -- emerging markets will feel that pinch.''
 Still, Mr. Bernstein sees a few safe havens for investors -- and even a few opportunities. At the top of his list are the health care companies, which he expects will be strong performers even if other areas of the economy struggle. ''Everybody loves to talk about health care as a very sexy growth sector,'' he said. ''However, the sector's best relative performance generally comes when other sectors begin to erode.'' 
 Consumer staples may also be attractive. And Mr. Bernstein favors telecommunications and utility stocks.
 ''Wireless and big telecom are growing at the same rate next year,'' he said -- about 8 or 9 percent. ''But the big guys are cheaper and they offer a significantly higher dividend yield.'' 

David Bianco
Chief equity strategist
UBS Securities
 Even if consumer spending slows down this year, David Bianco says that does not mean equity investors are doomed. An increase in industrial spending could arise to take its place. 
 That bodes well for America's heavy manufacturing businesses. ''I am very vocal on the view that the industrial sector is going to be the best performing,'' Mr. Bianco said. ''I am most bullish on capital goods companies, machinery companies and even conglomerates.''
 Domestically, he suggests there has been significant underinvestment for 20 years because of deflation on energy and commodities. American companies ''are still catching up,'' he said. Moreover, new capital outlays from federal transportation legislation and the recovery effort after Hurricane Katrina and Rita are likely to lead to large contracts. 
 But the biggest boost could come from demand overseas, as companies in fast-growing markets like China, India and the Middle East expand. ''The companies that dominate capital expenditure -- energy, utilities, mining and transportation concerns -- will be spending more as the demand for energy, commodities and capital goods increases,'' Mr. Bianco predicted. ''The best way to benefit from globalization is to own the suppliers.''
 Of course, not every industrial company may benefit from this boom. Mr. Bianco warns that investors may want to avoid materials companies in the S.& P. 500, like International Paper and United States Steel, because they are more involved in primary commodities than processing. The troubled airlines and automobile manufacturers are similar exceptions.
 Mr. Bianco also urges investors to largely avoid the telecommunications sector, which he views as under siege from Internet telephony. ''This is a significant threat, and one that shouldn't be underestimated,'' he said. ''We all tend to underestimate the margin damage when staring at long-lasting, structural, fierce competition.''
 The overall picture may be similarly bleak. Mr. Bianco expects the S.& P. 500 to rise to 1,250 over the next year, about 1 percent. He projects corporate earnings growth to remain flat, and gross domestic product growth to fall from to 2.5 percent, down from about 3.7 percent expected for this year.

Stuart G. Hoffman
Chief economist
PNC Financial Services Group
 Stuart G. Hoffman says he expects 2006 to be another year of ''moderate but still favorable'' growth for the economy, despite significant headwinds. 
 The Federal Reserve will raise interest rates two more times in the first few months of 2006, he said, and then will probably hold them steady as long as the economy maintains a neutral position. 
 Consumer spending will still be a positive force, but it will be more tempered than it was the last two years. And a cooling housing market, along with fewer Americans borrowing against the value of their home, will take away some momentum, he says. 
 Corporate profits will continue to grow. But they will be in the low single digits, compared with growth in the low teens last year. The S. & P., Mr. Hoffman projects, will end the year between 1,350 and 1,400 -- a gain of 5 to 7 percent, compared with the 3 percent it climbed in 2005. 
 There are other bright spots in his forecast. He expects the economy to create about two million jobs next year, about the same as in 2005. 
 Consumer wages will also rise a bit faster. ''Incomes will go up at a pretty reasonable pace,'' Mr. Hoffman said. And unlike this year, he said, they will more than stay ahead of inflation as energy prices stabilize.
 Mr. Hoffman expects the heavy manufacturing industry to reap big gains. That is because he expects companies to spend more to increase productivity with better technology as well as to replenish their inventories, which are currently low. 
 ''Business investment, more in technology, will show a very strong year on top of what were very good gains in 2005,'' he said. ''There is enough cash sitting on the balance sheets of small-business America that will help fund this kind of capital spending. And they won't be held back by a modest rise in interest rates.''

Thomas M. McManus
Chief investment strategist
Banc of America Securities
 Thomas M. McManus is relatively bullish about the year ahead. He projects that the S.& P. will rise to 1,335. He expects the Federal Reserve to take a breather from increasing interest rates after two more meetings. And he says he believes that the spread between short-term borrowing costs and long-term lending proceeds, or yield curve, will grow steeper -- not flatter.
 Mr. McManus sees capital expenditures rising over the next year, but not for the reasons economists typically give, which is increased demand from manufacturers or cash-rich corporate balance sheets. 
 Instead, Mr. McManus says he believes that companies will be spending more because they envision bigger profits in the future. The oil industry, he says, is a case in point. In December 2004, a six-year oil futures contract was trading at more than $36 a barrel. Today, it is trading at around $57. ''The market has given oil producers more visibility that prices will be extended into the future,'' he said, and the companies have responded with rapid expansion and hiring.''
 This, of course, benefits heavy manufacturing companies, like Caterpillar, which rank high on Mr. McManus's list. But while oil companies may continue to post strong financial results, he is less sure about their prospects as investments. 
 ''A year ago, we felt pretty strongly about energy and it worked out for us,'' Mr. McManus said. ''Energy is still O.K., but I am not as convinced on a risk-reward basis.''
 This year, Mr. McManus feels more confident about large-cap growth companies like Nike and Procter & Gamble, which are big enough to generate earnings even if the economy slows. ''I think that large-cap growth is going to have its day in the sun,'' Mr. McManus said. ''They are cheap, with price-to-free-cash-flow less expensive than anytime in the past 10 years.''
 Still, at least one equity class worries him in the months ahead: high-dividend yielding stocks like REIT's and utilities. While a reduction in the dividend tax rate caused the price of many of those stocks to rise steeply over the last two years, Mr. McManus cautioned that it would be difficult for those high appreciation rates to continue.
 ''We would rather people focus on dividend growth potential rather than dividend yield,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); YIELD CURVE (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); INTEREST RATES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); HURRICANES (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%) 

COMPANY: KNIGHT CAPITAL GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Knight Capital Group; Merrill Lynch & Co Inc; Ubs Securities; Pnc Financial Services Group; Banc of America Securities

TICKER: KCG (PAR) (54%); KCG (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: Ralph J Acampora; Richard Bernstein; David Bianco; Stuart G Hoffman; Thomas M Mcmanus; Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006



61 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: A Blogger Creates a Blogger for a Trip Back to 2004

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:

Dog Days
By Ana Marie Cox
274 pages. Riverhead. $23.95.
 A love affair runs through Ana Marie Cox's ''Dog Days,'' and it ends with a moment of high drama. Figuratively speaking, the book's heroine, Melanie Thornton, might as well be throwing her beloved off a high cliff into stormy seas. This is easier than it sounds, since Melanie is in love with something that weighs only a few ounces: the BlackBerry hand-held computer that accompanies her everywhere. Melanie grips it and gazes at it incessantly. The book never explains how she avoids walking into walls.
The BlackBerry in ''Dog Days'' is more than just a shamelessly promoted product. It is a symbol, too. It represents the glib, facile, cynical, artificial and calculating values amid which Melanie finds herself as she wags the dog in Washington as a 28-year-old minor political operative working on the 2004 Democratic presidential campaign. The author sincerely thanks the Kerry-Edwards team, which did not need enemies with her for a friend. 
 Ms. Cox has made her own dent in the political process with www.wonkette.com, the foxy blog that has made her well known in Washington circles. And ''Dog Days'' is predicated on the thought that it is a short leap from a blog to a blovel. ''She's so getting a book deal out of this,'' somebody in ''Dog Days'' says about Capitolette, the fictitious blogger who is invented by the inventor of Ms. Wonkette (which makes this book a roman a clef a clef, for anybody who's counting layers of artistry here). But getting the book deal proves easier than writing the book.
 ''Dog Days'' manages to be doubly conventional: it follows both an old-fashioned love-betrayal-redemption arc and the newer, bitchier nanny-Prada chick-lit motif. Melanie is a myopic and self-interested heroine by the standards of either genre. The reader will learn about Melanie's expensive shoes, Melanie's drinking, Melanie's buying of groceries at drugstores, Melanie's playing with sushi and Melanie's first shirt with French cuffs. Then there are Melanie's descriptions of cellphone noises, the Delta shuttle terminal and Washington's byzantine parking laws. Throughout all this, the ''Berry'' -- a word used as both a noun and a verb -- is never more than a pesty ping away.
 Meet the stock characters: Julie, Melanie's even more cynical best friend and a Washington lobbyist; Rick, the married magazine and television pundit with whom Melanie is having an affair (''He was someone her Mom would recognize though maybe not right away''); Heather, the birdbrained but ambitious babe who is recruited by Julie and Melanie once they need a Capitolette stand-in. In keeping with the book's paint-by-numbers manner, Heather is a Washington hybrid of Jessica Rabbit and Jessica Simpson. 
 The two friends concoct their fake blogger to divert attention from Melanie and Rick's affair, which is in danger of being exposed. They also cook up Capitolette to give the book its entree into the blog world. ''She was fascinated by the blogosphere, though she had a hard time explaining why,'' Ms. Cox writes of Melanie, with the limp faux naivete that makes much of ''Dog Days'' so tepid. Anyone expecting ''Dog Days'' to sound like Wonkette will wait a long time for any Wonkette wit to kick in. 
 Sparse as it is, the book's snarky humor is welcome. In an otherwise dopey parody of the Swift Boat Veterans' assault on Senator John Kerry, the fictitious Democratic candidate is libeled by ''Citizens for Clear Heads'' as having been brainwashed, ''Manchurian Candidate''-style -- ''which at least would give him some foreign policy experience,'' Melanie supposes. Reading The Economist at bedtime, she asks herself: ''Is it still passing out if you're sober?'' 
 Ms. Cox has three real areas of satirical expertise. The Washington party scene is the most provincial of them, unless the reader cares about which bars are hot or which MSNBC guy ''sort of looks like a potato.'' Ms. Cox is better on the gizmo-equipped, ''West Wing''-mimicking manners of myopic, obsessive careerists, said here to behave as if they had Asperger syndrome. ''You know, like autism, but functional,'' Melanie tells Rick. ''You can dress yourself and whatnot, but you can't actually interact with people. It's what everyone here has.'' It's also why so much of the book sounds so repetitive.
 Ms. Cox best recalls the skills that put her on the map by sending up assorted news-media voices, from quick to stodgy. She uses Julie as a savvy mouthpiece for nimble-minded spin. To rebut the Clearheads' brainwashing campaign, Melanie provides this dialogue for Julie: ''This is what happens when Republicans get bored with buying up riverfront property. They write checks to muddy the reputation of a good man who is trying to help the lives of people who don't have private planes.'' Never mind that the Democratic candidate has a rich wife whom his staff has nicknamed Lady Di.
 The sharpest jabs in ''Dog Days'' are aimed at preblog news media, skewered as the out-of-touch relics of another age. Once the book warms up to its Capitolette scam, its parodies of press coverage are ruthless. ''Sex and the Single Blogger: Washington Whisperer Tells Almost All'' reads the poky headline of a breathless Washington Post article. Then there is Ms. Cox's Time parody, with its use of a Republican mom from Michigan to exemplify the hot new trend. 
 Last February, the newsmagazine reports, Jackie McDonnell knew nothing of blogs. ''Now, though, McDonnell calls herself a 'blog fanatic,' checking in on the irreverent, sometimes saucy -- and often wrong -- 'Web logs' as much as two or three hours a day. 'I've stopped watching television and knitting,' she says, petting her Dell keyboard. 'Forget scrapbooking. I'm hooked.' '' 
 Ms. Cox is too adroit with this fake obsolescence to fall back on it for real. But ''Dog Days'' really does resort to what she herself calls ''the Hallmark Channel ending.'' So it's bye-bye BlackBerry and hello Iowa for Melanie at the story's end. Any smart Web site would mock her final gesture: turning on her laptop and writing the opening lines of this book.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ana Marie Cox (Photo by Nina Subin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); WRITERS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); POLITICS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (70%); LOBBYING (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (57%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (57%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%)

PERSON: Janet Maslin; Ana Marie Cox

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006



62 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Federal Reserve Indicates That Period Of Raising Rates May Be Near an End
The Federal Reserve has set the stage for ending its 18-month campaign of raising interest rates, but officials signaled that they are entering a new period of uncertainty at the same time as Alan Greenspan prepares to retire as Fed chairman. [Page C1.] 


Spurred by a signal that the Federal Reserve may soon stop raising interest rates, stocks began the year with their biggest rally since October. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 20.51 points, to 1,268.80. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 129.91 points, to 10,847.41. The Nasdaq composite index was up 38.42 points, to 2,243.74. [C7.]

Shake-Up at Dow Jones as New Chief Is Named
In a management shake-up, Dow Jones & Company, which publishes The Wall Street Journal, named a successor to its chief executive, Peter R. Kann, bypassing Mr. Kann's wife, Karen Elliot House, publisher of The Journal, who is leaving the company. Dow Jones picked its chief operating officer, Richard F. Zannino, as chief executive. [C1.]

BASF Makes Hostile Bid for Engelhard
The BASF Group of Germany, the world's largest chemical maker, made a hostile takeover bid of $4.9 billion for Engelhard, an American company that invented the catalytic converter for cars. Engelhard, based in Iselin, N.J., specializes in manufacturing clean-air technology and has so far refused to consider BASF's offer, which would represent almost a 23 percent premium over Engelhard's year-end closing price. By taking its offer directly to shareholders, BASF is hoping to circumvent Engelhard's board of directors in its attempt to purchase all of the company's stock. [C1.]

Activist Shareholders Are Taking Center Stage
As recent developments at Knight Ridder and Time Warner show, activist investors, with demands to push stock prices higher, are changing corporate America and the deal-making landscape. [C1.]

First Data Weighs Sale of Money-Losing Unit
First Data, a credit card issuer that has lost customers to its chief competitor recently, will announce by the end of the month whether it will sell its money-losing card-processing business, a sale that is expected to reap more than $3 billion. [C3.]

Cnooc Shareholders Block Foreign Investing Plan
Minority investors at Cnooc, a Chinese oil company that is publicly listed in Hong Kong, blocked a proposal over the weekend that would have allowed its government-owned parent to invest in overseas oil and gas reserves. [C5.]

Nations Are Told to Halt Exports of Caviar
The global export of caviar was ordered halted yesterday under the international convention that helps nations manage threatened species. [A3.]

Ukraine Says It Had Right to Take Gas From Pipeline
Ukraine conceded that it had withdrawn from its pipeline system natural gas that Russia said was intended for export to Europe, but said it had a contractual right to the fuel under an agreement with the Central Asian nation of Turkmenistan. Russia and Ukraine are in a dispute over gas prices. [A6.]

Russia's shutdown of natural gas lines to Ukraine lasted less than 48 hours, but the repercussions could last far longer in Western Europe, which also relies heavily on Russian gas. [A6.]

German Steel Maker Raises Bid for Canadian Company
ThyssenKrupp, the German steel maker, raised its offer for Dofasco of Canada to 4.9 billion Canadian dollars, or $4.24 billion, matching a hostile bid from Arcelor of Luxembourg. [C5.]

Oxygen Enlists Agency as Part of Image Makeover
The cable network Oxygen is making a move to overhaul its wholesome image with ''Campus Ladies,'' a ribald comedy about two middle-age suburban women who go back to college and indulge in some age-inappropriate partying and carousing with male undergraduates. Helping Oxygen in its image makeover will be Toy, a new boutique agency in New York, which has created an $8 million marketing campaign to introduce the weekly show. The campaign, Toy's first account in its two-month life, combines print, television, subway posters, billboards, online and guerrilla advertising. The ads will take a tack that is still unusual in advertising for women -- the use of the kind of bawdy humor traditionally aimed at men. Advertising.[C1.]

Stability in Manhattan Office Leasing Market
Last year was generally a good one for both sides of the Manhattan office market. Vacancy rates declined, and that was good for building owners. And rents increased, but at a restrained pace, so those looking to lease space were generally not under intense price pressure. Square Feet. [C6.]

Chicago Projects Are a Test of Office Condominiums
Two projects under way in the Chicago Loop, the downtown central business district, are testing the waters for office condominiums, a growing segment of the commercial real estate market in cities like Atlanta and Phoenix but one that is still relatively unknown in the Midwest. Square Feet. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices (daily closes) of Engelhard for November and December. (Nov.: $27.43 -- Dec.: $38.00)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); CHEMICALS MFG (70%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (63%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (60%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BASF SE (84%); DOW JONES & CO INC (84%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (51%)

TICKER: BFA (LSE) (84%); BASF (BIT) (84%); BAS (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (84%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (84%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



63 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Black Gold or Black Death?

BYLINE: By Jeff Goodell. 
Jeff Goodell is the author of the forthcoming ''Big Coal: The Dirty Secret Behind America's Energy Future.''

 BODY:
IN recent years, one of the toughest turnaround jobs in American industry has been the effort to change the perception of coal from an industrial relic of 19th century to an energy source for the 21st century. The high-water mark of this makeover campaign may well have come last spring, when General Electric began its ''ecomagination'' advertising campaign touting its new clean coal technology. One ad featured glamorous, scantily clad models (male and female) shoveling coal in a dark mine while Tennessee Ernie Ford's version of ''16 Tons,'' the great song about hard labor and corporate exploitation, played on the soundtrack. Near the end of the ad, a voice announced, ''Harnessing the power of coal is looking more beautiful every day.''
 But there is nothing pretty about coal, as we have been grimly reminded by the plight of the 13 coal miners trapped by a mine collapse near Tallmansville, W.V. The American Lung Association estimates that 24,000 people die prematurely each year from power-plant pollution. In Appalachia, mountaintop removal mining -- a method of mining in which the mountain is removed from the coal, rather than the coal removed from the mountain -- has flattened some 380,000 acres in the region and destroyed more than 700 miles of streams. 
Coal plants generate more than 130 million tons a year of combustion waste -- fly ash, bottom ash, scrubber sludge -- that is laced with toxic metals like arsenic and mercury and pumped into holding ponds and abandoned mines, where it can sometimes leak into aquifers and drinking water. Most important, coal plants are responsible for nearly 40 percent of the carbon dioxide released in the United States, meaning that if we're going to get a handle on global warming, we'll have to get a handle on coal. 
 Still, in recent years -- thanks in part to skyrocketing natural gas prices, worries about dwindling oil supplies, regulatory rollbacks of the Bush administration -- coal has become sexy. And it indeed has many virtues. 
 Coal is cheap and plentiful. Right now, more than half the electricity generated in America is produced with coal. America is often called ''the Saudi Arabia of coal,'' with enough to last us for 250 years. Improvements in emission controls make new coal plants much cleaner than the old coal burners; 120 of these up-to-date plants are in the works right now. New technology allows coal to be liquefied into diesel, a possible substitute for oil.
 There is also a strong cultural connection to the resurgence of coal, particularly in the producing areas: it is a red-state rock, a taking back of America from the silly blue-staters who believed the future would be powered by solar panels and switchgrass. I recently attended a rally for a new coal plant in the Midwest where boosters chanted, ''Coal is U.S.A.! Coal is U.S.A.!''
 Nothing, however, has been more important to the comeback of coal than the purported safety improvements in mining. The coal industry knows that as much as Americans may love a cheap kilowatt, they are not going to support burning coal if it results in people suffering miserable deaths in Appalachian coal mines. The industry works overtime to suggest that coal mining today has nothing in common with its dark and exploitative past. The old days of breaker boys (children who picked rocks out of the coal) and methane explosions are gone, the coal industry argues, and mining today is safe, well paid and professional. 
 Promotional literature published by the National Mining Association and other industry groups usually show miners as clean-faced men in close proximity to high-tech machinery -- computer screens, global positioning systems, bright yellow haul trucks. The average salary of a coal miner, the association says, is $50,000 a year. According to one coal industry Web site, working in a coal mine today is as safe as working in a grocery store.
 The people in Tallmansville know better. Coal mining remains a dirty and dangerous business, especially in regions of Appalachia where all the easy coal is gone and what's left is increasingly difficult and dangerous to mine. (Coal mining is indeed a fairly safe operation in the big strip mines of Wyoming, where the 70-foot seams of coal lie so close to the surface that, in places, you can practically dig it out with a spoon.) 
 In parts of West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Kentucky, some mines are so complex and tight the workers call them ''dogholes.'' Working in an underground mine, especially one owned by a small non-union operator in Appalachia, is one of the few jobs in America that is nearly as dangerous as commercial fishing in Alaska. 
 Not long ago, I spoke with a coal miner who was spending eight hours a day in a coal seam in western Kentucky that was a mere 20 inches high. You can't even turn around in a mine like that, have to mine laying on your belly. I asked him how much he earned. ''Not enough to buy a new truck,'' he told me. 
 If coal is indeed going to be taken seriously as a fuel source in the 21st century, it's up to federal and state regulators to make sure that even 20-inch dogholes are safe (and they can be, with the proper technology, worker skills and governmental oversight). A good first step would be to reverse the Bush administration's new privacy rules, which have made it tougher for outsiders to obtain federal inspectors' reports. Even better would be to increase fines and other penalties for operators who break the rules. In many cases the penalties for running a dangerous mine -- the West Virginia mine had 208 federal citations in 2005, up from 68 in 2004 -- amounted to little more than a slap on the wrist.
 In the summer of 2002, outside the Quecreek Mine in Pennsylvania, I watched for three days as heroic men rescued nine co-workers who had been buried alive. There was no talk about the Saudi Arabia of coal there, no easy words about energy independence or the economic virtues of burning coal. Like the families who stood vigil in Tallmansville this week, they were people who understood the real price of cheap power.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL MINING (90%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); SURFACE MINING (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); MINE WORKERS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); SOLAR ENERGY (72%); PARTICULATE MATTER (71%); WATER POLLUTION (71%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (69%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (62%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (50%) Coal; Mines and Mining; Accidents and Safety; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Industrial and Occupational Hazards; Coal

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Jeff Goodell

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) West Virginia; Appalachian Region

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



64 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Investigates Death of Man Shot in U.S. by Border Patrol Agent

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
The Mexican authorities are investigating the death of an 18-year-old Mexican man shot by a United States Border Patrol agent after he had illegally crossed the border into California. 
 Witnesses told Mexican authorities that the man, Guillermo Martinez Rodriguez, was shot Friday. A brother and two other men traveling with him helped him to return to Tijuana, where he died in a hospital a day later.
 Todd Fraser, a spokesman for the Border Patrol, acknowledged the shooting in a telephone interview on Tuesday, saying that an agent had ''come under attack by an assailant who was throwing rocks.'' The agent ''fired back in self-defense,'' Mr. Fraser said. Then, he said, the migrant climbed back over the fence and fled into Mexico.
 Mr. Fraser said he did not have a figure for the number of migrants shot by American border agents last year, but he said the number of rock attacks by migrants against agents in the San Diego area had increased to 218 incidents in 2005, from 112 in 2004. ''The rock attacks are increasing, and that is attributed to the increased enforcement by our agents,'' he said. ''Smugglers are getting frustrated because they can't get their loads through, and that results in more attacks on our officers.''
 Mexican authorities, however, said the shooting reflected a growing hostility in the United States toward migrants. The authorities have used the shooting to draw attention to a law passed by Congress last month that would strengthen controls along the border and mandate the construction of miles of steel fences that Mexicans have likened to the Berlin Wall.
 Mexico has condemned the proposed law as ''shameful,'' saying it does not recognize the contributions of undocumented workers to the American economy. Previous border enforcement efforts, Mexican authorities say, have not stopped migrants, but have pushed them onto isolated and inhospitable routes.
 Luis Cabrera, Mexico's consul in San Diego, said the shooting ''goes against the spirit of cooperation that should exist along the border.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); REFUGEES (78%); INTERVIEWS (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); FOREIGN LABOR (62%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (93%) Border Patrol (US)

PERSON: Ginger Thompson; Guillermo Martinez Rodriguez

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%) Mexico; California

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



65 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: 10 Nations Told to Halt Caviar Exports to Save Sturgeon 

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
The global export of caviar, the briny eggs of sturgeon that is one of the most coveted and lucrative wildlife products, was ordered halted on Tuesday under the international convention that helps nations manage threatened species.
 The suspension, called for by the secretariat of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, was described as a temporary measure to compel nations that still export caviar and other products from wild sturgeon to demonstrate that their fishing practices are not pushing the remaining fish populations toward extinction.
Exporting nations must ''ensure that the exploitation of sturgeon stocks is commercially and environmentally sustainable over the long term,'' said Willem Wijnstekers, the convention's secretary general. 
 The suspension also bars signatory nations from importing sturgeon products. This means that Western retailers would still be able to sell wild foreign caviar they have already imported. But once that inventory is depleted, consumers would most likely have to purchase farmed eggs, which are generally regarded as less desirable, or eggs from limited domestic supplies. In any event, the market would tighten.
 Sturgeon -- primeval, long-lived and sometimes massive -- are the vestiges of an ancient line of fish. Their eggs and meat, and the trade that surrounds them, have become deeply entwined in the histories, cultures and economies of the regions that produce them. Sturgeon products, legal and illegal, are thought to be worth at least several hundred million dollars each year, and perhaps much more. 
 But the remaining sturgeon fisheries have all suffered from plummeting populations, caused by dams that block spawning routes, pollution, excessive fishing, corruption and highly organized black markets. And as a luxury item in the West and among the newly rich in the post-Soviet states, the fish and their eggs have become more valuable as they have become more rare. 
 Caviar from beluga sturgeon, the most prized species, fetches more than $200 an ounce, roughly double the price of a year ago. 
 Scientists and managers have noted that even before prices soared, there had been several local extinctions of sturgeon, and many species, including some in the United States, had been reduced to marginal populations. Moreover, the remaining commercial stocks are the last reserves, a condition that lent urgency to the secretariat's demand for more thorough management plans. ''We just have to get this right, because there are not enough fish left,'' said David Morgan, head of the secretariat's science unit. 
 The suspension covers all principal areas that export wild sturgeon meat or eggs, including the Caspian Sea, where 90 percent of the remaining trade originates; the Amur River, on the Russian-Chinese border; the Black Sea and the lower Danube. 
 It applies to 10 nations that still actively export products: Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, China, Iran, Kazakhstan, Romania, Russia, Serbia and Montenegro, Turkmenistan and Ukraine, the secretariat said. The convention covers exports only, meaning fish caught in each country can still be sold on domestic markets. 
 But the main importing nations -- among them the United States, Britain, France, Germany and Switzerland -- are all parties to the 169-nation convention and are expected to follow the secretariat's call to block imports. 
 Susan Lieberman, director of the World Wildlife Fund's global species programs, said she expected the United States, which in 2005 unilaterally banned the importation of beluga sturgeon products under the Endangered Species Act, to accept the new rules. 
 The United States Fish and Wildlife Service, which is charged with enforcing the convention in the United States, did not publicly comment on the secretariat's announcement.
 There was little immediate reaction from exporters. 
 Russia, which trades heavily in sturgeon products for domestic and foreign markets, is on official holiday for New Year and Orthodox Christmas celebrations. Its natural resource officials could not be reached.
 The treaty representative for Iran told Agence-France Presse that the five nations that exported from the Caspian basin had been given questions by the secretariat, and hoped to answer them by Jan. 15. The representative added, however, that there was a risk the secretariat would allow no exports in 2006.
 There was no indication how long it would take for exporters to satisfy the secretariat that their fishing plans are sustainable, and based on real harvesting data. ''We certainly hope that this is temporary, but if the problems are not addressed satisfactorily, it could be a longer time,'' Mr. Morgan said. ''We do need to see a variety of things.''
 He added that all of the nations in each region would have to satisfy the secretariat's concerns before any of them could resume legal exports. ''They are tied together; we can't have one without the others because we need to be sure of the whole catch rate for an entire basin,'' he said.
 The secretariat ordered temporary bans twice before, in 2001 and 2002. The first, which was lifted when exporting nations agreed to follow stricter conservation measures, lasted about eight months. The second lasted only three weeks. 
 But exporters have not lived up to their previous commitments, and sturgeon populations have continued to fall even as official quotas have dropped, leading to the new ban and stricter attention to fishing plans, said Ellen K. Pikitch, executive director of the Pew Institute for Ocean Science at the University of Miami.
 One persistent problem in sturgeon management has been that harvest data do not account for widespread poaching. By some accounts the illegal trade matches or exceeds the legal harvest. Exporting nations, Mr. Wijnstekers noted, must ''make full allowance for the amount of fish caught illegally.''
 Mr. Morgan said exporters would also have to show that their fishing plans accounted for the real size of stocks. Advocates of stronger protection welcomed the secretariat's decision, noting that the fact that all remaining fisheries -- and all the species -- were included reduced opportunities for loopholes. In the past some exporters tried to package illegal fish or eggs as if they were legal species or from legal waters. 
 ''The bigger the ban, the more far-reaching it is and the easier it is enforced,'' said Dr. Pikitch, who was a co-author of a global survey, published in 2005 in the journal Fish & Fisheries, that documented sturgeon declines worldwide and called for strong measures and public awareness campaigns to protect the surviving fish.
 The suspension also could cut deeply into illegal exports; black market caviar often masquerades as legal caviar, being packed and shipped under the same labels. With all exports closed, the illegal catch cannot be commingled on store shelves.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Caviar gathered by poachers being prepared at Teze Bazaar in Baku, Azerbaijan. Prices for top-quality caviar have doubled in a year.
 Sturgeon poached from the Caspian Sea of Azerbaijan. A ban on caviar exports is intended to force exporting nations to crack down on smuggling. (Photographs by Joseph Sywenkyj/Redux, for The New York Times)Chart: ''Caviar Quotas''Shrinking quotas have not slowed the depletion of the three most coveted caviars from the Caspian, Black and Azov Seas, so officials have enacted a temporary ban on wild sturgeon and caviar exports.Graph tracks maximum export quotas (Sevruga Caviar, Osetra Caviar and Beluga Caviar) from 2001 to 2005.(Source by Fish & Fisheries)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); MARINE PRODUCTS GATHERING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); FISHES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); BIOLOGY (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); FISHERIES (76%); LUXURY GOODS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); RETAILERS (69%); CORRUPTION (65%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (55%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Caviar; Endangered and Extinct Species; International Trade and World Market; Sturgeon (Fish); Fish and Other Marine Life; Fish and Other Marine Life; Smuggling

ORGANIZATION: Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species

PERSON: C J Chivers; Willem Wijnstekers

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); CASPIAN SEA (92%) AZERBAIJAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); TURKMENISTAN (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); ROMANIA (92%); UKRAINE (90%); SERBIA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BULGARIA (50%) Caspian Sea; Amur River; Black Sea; Danube River; Azerbaijan; Russia; China; Bulgaria; Iran; Kazakhstan; Romania; Serbia; Turkmenistan; Ukraine

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



66 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Social Insecurity Crisis

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
The year 2006 is just four days old, but I'm already prepared to nominate the natural resource of the year, the one that will have the most decisive impact on international relations -- and that is undoubtedly oil.
 Look at all the global trends involving oil (or gas) today, and they are all bad: the former leader of Germany gets voted out of office and goes to work for the president of Russia, running a pipeline company owned by Russia. The oil-for-food scandal tarnishes the U.N. The president of Iran, feeling so emboldened by the billions of dollars flowing into his country thanks to $60-a-barrel oil, engages in repeated rants about how the Holocaust is a myth. Vladimir Putin's oil-fueled government in Russia steadily erodes civil liberties at home, while using its energy clout abroad to try to punish Ukraine and to deflect U.N. pressure on Syria for its murderous campaign against Lebanese democrats and on Iran for its work to develop a nuclear bomb. I could go on. Do you have all day? 
If you look at these trends, three things come to mind: They are all negative, they are all going to get worse with another year of $60-a-barrel oil, and the only force on the planet with the will and the way to neutralize their worst effects is America.
 But here's the rub: America's refusal to have a serious energy policy makes these problems only more severe, and its refusal to have a serious entitlement policy -- reforming Social Security and Medicare before they totally devour the U.S. budget -- is only going to sap America's ability to play the global governing role that is so necessary for world stability. 
 To put it another way, our energy gluttony is strengthening the worst forces in the world and our entitlement gluttony is going to weaken our capacity to deal with those forces. As the Johns Hopkins University foreign affairs specialist Michael Mandelbaum puts it: ''The greatest threat to America's role in the world today is not China. It's Medicare.''
 In a smart and original new book, ''The Case for Goliath: How America Acts as the World's Government in the 21st Century,'' Mr. Mandelbaum argues that while U.S. foreign policy is hardly perfect, it is America -- through its vast military deployments, diplomatic engagements and vital role in buttressing the global economy and its rules -- that provides the basic governance that keeps the world stable and on a decent track.
 Most countries in the world like this situation, he contends. They like it because they know that the U.S. is not a predatory power, so they are not afraid of the order it provides. They like it because this global order is helpful to every country in the world, but the cost of it is borne largely by U.S. taxpayers. And they like it because they can criticize the U.S. and still enjoy all the benefits it provides. 
 The best evidence for all this, Mr. Mandelbaum notes, is the fact that no military coalition has ever formed to counter America's global governing role -- as happened with other hegemonic powers in history. 
 In Mr. Mandelbaum's view, America ''is not the lion of the international system, terrorizing and preying on smaller, weaker animals in order to survive itself. It is, rather, the elephant, which supports a wide variety of other creatures -- smaller mammals, birds and insects -- by generating nourishment for them as it goes about the business of feeding itself.''
 No other country could play this crucial stabilizing role. But its continuation depends on ''American taxpayers' being willing to keep paying for it,'' Mr. Mandelbaum said -- and that gets us back to our runaway entitlements.
 USA Today recently quoted David Walker, the U.S. comptroller general, as saying we are about to be hit by ''a demographic tsunami'' that will ''never recede.'' The baby boomers total 77 million, and their first wave turns 60 this year. Unless we trim the Medicare and Social Security benefits promised to these boomers, the paper noted, America's ''national debt will grow more than $3 trillion through 2010, to $11.2 trillion. The interest alone would cost $561 billion in 2010, the same as the Pentagon [budget].''
 The same as the Pentagon's! So either Social Security and Medicare shrink or the Pentagon shrinks -- because higher taxes seem to be out of the question for now. If history is any guide, Americans will prefer Social Security and Medicare over paying to make the world safe for China, India, Russia and Iran to pursue their interests. 
 If so, the world may soon test out one of the most important theses of Mr. Mandelbaum's book: that the greatest threat to global stability is ''not too much American power, but too little.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); HOLOCAUST (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%); SCANDALS (55%) United States International Relations; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Medicare; Medicine and Health; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (55%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) Thomas L Friedman; Michael Mandelbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (88%); SYRIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); UKRAINE (77%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



67 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Ukraine Concedes It Took Gas From Pipeline but Says It Had the Contractual Right

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Ukraine conceded Tuesday that it had withdrawn natural gas from its pipeline system that Russia said was intended for export to Europe, but said it had a contractual right to the fuel under an agreement with the Central Asian nation of Turkmenistan.
 Both Russia and Turkmenistan export natural gas through Russian pipelines to Ukraine, which customarily takes some for its own use and ships the rest on to other European countries. But Russia cut the flow through the pipeline on Sunday, ostensibly in a dispute with Ukraine over pricing and transit fees. That set off alarm bells throughout Europe during the winter heating season and shook world energy markets' confidence in Russia. 
 Russia placed blame for the shortages on Ukraine, saying it stole gas intended for export, but under pressure from European governments, Russia restored full flow to the pipeline on Monday. Despite the bickering, the two countries resumed negotiations on gas prices on Tuesday. 
 Nevertheless, the price of crude oil leapt by more than $2 a barrel on Tuesday in afternoon trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, fed by concerns over Russia's reliability. Crude oil prices rose to a two-month high of $63.80 a barrel at midday before pulling back slightly. 
 While admitting that they took their usual allotment of gas on Tuesday, Ukrainian officials dismissed Russian claims that the gas had been stolen. Mikola Goncharuk, a member of the board of Ukraine's natural gas company, Naftogaz, said at a news conference in Kiev that his company had indeed drawn down gas from the pipeline system, but under a contract with Turkmenistan. Russian export gas, he said, was untouched.
 ''We are demanding the full volume of gas from Turkmenistan today,'' Mr. Goncharuk said. ''For now we can get by without Russian gas.'' 
 Gazprom, Russia's government-owned gas company, insists that the pipeline carries only Russian gas for export to Europe. 
 Meanwhile, the political fallout continued from Russia's brief gas embargo, which was widely regarded in Europe as punishment of Ukraine for its rejection of Moscow in elections last year and its continued turn to the West and away from the Russian orbit. 
 In Washington, the State Department spokesman criticized Russia's use of energy as a foreign policy tool, while Austria and other Central and Eastern European countries agreed to make the diversification of energy supplies a priority, though they did not say how they would achieve it. 
 The European Union's top energy official said Tuesday that the pricing dispute could fester for weeks to come, jeopardizing one of the Continent's primary sources of energy. Andris Piebalgs, the energy commissioner, said the agreement by the two sides to resume talks on the issue was ''just a temporary calmdown,'' according to the Bloomberg news agency. 
 Each side in the dispute has plausibly blamed the other because the pipeline system, a great achievement of the Soviet Union's postwar industrial expansion, was built as a unified web. After the Soviet Union broke up, the successor states divided the gas flow through treaties and commercial agreements that grew more complex each year. 
 Companies subsidized others, shrewd businessmen made millions or billions exploiting price discrepancies, gas utilities became government slush funds and corruption blossomed. 
 The gas is sometimes mingled in the web of pipes. In the argument on Tuesday, Ukraine said some of the gas entering its pipeline system had been bought from Turkmenistan and shipped by an intermediary company. Mr. Goncharuk said his company paid last Friday for 126 million cubic meters a day of gas from Turkmenistan, for an unspecified period. 
 He said that Ukraine therefore had a right to withdraw that volume of gas from its pipelines, but that it had chosen to take only 90 million cubic meters out of concern for the security of natural gas flows to Europe during the winter. 
 The Russian minister of industry and energy, Viktor Khristenko, said Tuesday that Gazprom had contracted the entire export capacity of Turkmenistan for the first quarter of 2006, the Dow Jones news service reported. 
 In statements carried in the Russian news media, Turkmenistan's mercurial and authoritarian leader, Saparmurat Niyazov, who presides over a closed nation deep in Central Asia, shed little light on the dispute. He has confirmed sales to Ukraine without elaborating on the discrepancy with Gazprom's statements. Gazprom controls the pipeline leading north from his country. 
 Mr. Goncharuk also asserted that Ukraine had a right to withdraw additional gas from the pipelines in lieu of transit fees from Russia under a barter agreement reached in 2004 and in force in 2005. 
 Volodymyr R. Sidenko, chief economist at the Institute of Economic Forecasting in the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences, said: ''Ukraine considers if we have not arrived at any agreement, the old one is in effect. The Russian side rejects these arguments.'' 
 Meanwhile, the gas dispute has already dented Ukraine's energy-intensive economy. Chemical and metallurgical industries slowed production to reduce demand by 15 to 20 percent, according to a statement by the Ukrainian government. 
 While Kiev scored points for withstanding what European nations almost universally regarded as Russia's intimidation tactics, its energy troubles are far from over. 
 Natural gas-guzzling steel mills and chemical plants earn much of Ukraine's export revenues. Outdated and inefficient, many have scraped by since the collapse of the Soviet Union only because of cheap energy from Russia. Market-rate energy prices, which Ukrainian officials acknowledge they must pay eventually, could plunge Ukraine back into recession, officials here have said. 
 On average, metallurgical plants would become unprofitable at natural gas prices above $105 per 1,000 cubic meters, according to estimates by Mr. Sidenko. The chemical industry would be unprofitable at prices above $85, he said. 
 Under the 2005 contract, negotiated before the Orange Revolution, Ukraine pays $50 per 1,000 cubic meters. Gazprom is asking for $220 to $230 now, about double what most other former Soviet states pay.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Ukrainian worker operated valves yesterday in a natural gas storage and transit point in Boyarka, near Kiev, after Russia restored supplies. (Photo by Sergei Chuzavkov/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (67%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (65%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%) Gas (Fuel); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Pipelines; International Trade and World Market; Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: NJSC NAFTOGAZ OF UKRAINE (90%); OAO GAZPROM (65%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (65%); GAZP (RTS) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (90%); NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (90%); SIC5172 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS WHOLESALERS, EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (65%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (65%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (65%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (65%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (65%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (65%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: Andrew E Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) UKRAINE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (98%); TURKMENISTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (59%); AUSTRIA (55%) Russia; Ukraine ; Turkmenistan

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



68 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Notes Offer Hope Of a Brake On Rates

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve has set the stage for ending its 18-month campaign of raising interest rates, but officials signaled on Tuesday that they are entering a new period of uncertainty at the same time that Alan Greenspan prepares to retire as Fed chairman.
 According to minutes released Tuesday from the Fed policy committee's meeting in December, officials agreed that they would probably have to push rates only a little higher before stopping. 
''Given the information now in hand, the number of additional firming steps required probably would not be large,'' the summary said, ascribing that view to ''most members'' of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee.
 On Wall Street, stock prices increased sharply in response. Major indexes rose more than 1 percent, with the Dow Jones industrial average up 129.91 points, or 1.2 percent, its largest one-day gain in a month.
 The minutes also suggested, though, that investors might have gotten ahead of themselves.
 For more than two years, the Fed has given investors explicit guidance about future rate decisions, most recently as it gradually pushed up interest rates from the lows of early 2004. But Fed committee members made clear at the December meeting that they were increasingly uncertain about both the potential course of the economy and the best way to communicate their intentions. 
 ''Views differed on how much further tightening would be required,'' according to the minutes. ''Members thought the policy outlook was becoming considerably less certain and that policy decisions going forward would depend to an increased extent on the implications of incoming economic data.''
 The ambiguity struck Peter Kretzmer, senior economist at Bank of America. ''The markets really seized on the idea they were closer,'' he said, referring to an end of rate increases, ''but when one thinks about it, they also highlighted just as clearly that there's uncertainty. What they really highlighted is that what they do will depend more on the data.''
 The summary of last month's deliberations provided a wealth of new insights as the Fed prepares for the transition from Mr. Greenspan to Ben S. Bernanke, President Bush's nominee to be the next Fed chairman.
 The meeting minutes confirmed that Fed officials became slightly less worried about inflation pressure, even though they expected high energy prices to push overall inflation somewhat higher for a while.
 ''Participants indicated that their concerns about near-term inflation pressures had eased somewhat,'' the minutes said. Policy makers said prices were being held in check by competition from foreign producers. 
 They also noted that labor costs had risen only moderately, despite strong economic growth. And they drew comfort from findings that the spike in oil prices last summer and fall had only a ''muted'' impact on consumer prices.
 But Fed officials made it clear that they were divided about when to stop raising interest rates. They also labored mightily to preserve maneuvering room, warning that decisions would be heavily influenced by coming economic data. 
 ''Views differed on how much further tightening would be required,'' according to the minutes. ''Members thought the policy outlook was becoming considerably less certain and that policy decisions going forward would depend to an increased extent on the implications of incoming economic data.''
 Fed officials seemed to be warning that they might stop providing the hints on future policy decisions that they had been giving over the last two years, with phrases like a ''measured'' pace of rate increases.
 Mr. Greenspan, who is to retire on Jan. 31 after 18 years at the helm of the Federal Reserve, has long warned that the Fed will not always tip its hand on future policy. 
 Mr. Bernanke, who is expected to win easy Senate approval as his successor, has argued for years that the central bank needs to be more ''transparent.'' But he has not said that he favors advance guidance as a matter of principle.
 Many analysts agree that the last two years have been unusually predictable, and that the Fed is now entering a new stage of uncertainty.
 Robert DiClemente, chief United States economist at Citigroup, said: ''It seems to me the consensus is less confident, and I sense that not only in the committee's own discussion but in the staff's backpedaling a bit on the outlook. It's indicative how people are more divided, and I think their willingness to guide market expectation has been diminished by that.'' 
 Two major factors made it much easier for Mr. Greenspan to offer guidance on the Fed's intentions over the last two years. 
 The first was that inflation remained low even while job creation and economic growth strengthened. That allowed the Fed to adjust policy gradually, without surprises. 
 The other was that the Fed had reduced interest rates far below normal from 2001 to 2004 in hope of invigorating a stalling economy. But by 2004, policy makers largely agreed that rates needed to be brought back to more usual levels.
 Indeed, Mr. Greenspan told lawmakers early in 2004 that returning rates to normal, without disruption, would be his biggest policy challenge. ''It's not a gimme putt,'' he remarked, borrowing a golf metaphor. 
 With the benchmark short-term interest rate, the Federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks, now at 4.25 percent, four times the level just 18 months ago, Fed officials are evidently getting close to at least a pause.
 Based on prices for federal funds futures, investors are betting that the rate will climb to 4.5 percent at the next Fed policy meeting on Jan. 31, but then very little above that.
 Still, several analysts said that investors might have read too much into the Fed's readiness for a pause, and predicted that the federal funds rate would reach 4.75 percent or even 5 percent this year. 
 Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., said the Fed was keeping its options open.
 In a note to clients on Tuesday, Mr. Shepherdson wrote: ''Clearly, there is a debate as to how much further tightening will be necessary. Still, this does not read like a Fed where everyone is looking for a reason to stop.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; United States Economy

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%) Edmund L Andrews; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



69 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Woman in the News: Christine Callaghan Quinn; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

PERSON: Christine Callaghan Quinn 

HEADLINE: Speaker, Doer and Symbol in Top City Council Job

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU; Patrick D. Healy contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
When the Bloomberg administration pushed its plan to build a football stadium on the West Side of Manhattan in early 2004, the City Council leadership was generally reluctant to confront the mayor. The exception was one lawmaker, Christine C. Quinn, who battled the plan every step of the way, marshalling opposition at a crucial time. 
 Today, Ms. Quinn is scheduled to be elected as the next speaker of the City Council, which would give her a variety of tools to thwart the initiatives of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg as he pursues what is expected to be an even more ambitious agenda in his second term.
The ascension of Ms. Quinn, 39, not only confronts the mayor with a strong-willed opponent with firm convictions, but also one who is welcomed by the administration as a straightforward adversary unafraid to compromise for the sake of practical politics. In the process, she will be automatically propelled to the top rung of New York City politicians. In the past, speakers have gone on to campaigns for mayor or governor. 
 But her role as Council speaker is perhaps even more significant on a symbolic level. As an openly gay woman, she could become a trailblazer for other gay politicians. 
 ''This has extraordinary significance in its own right: Chris will be the second most powerful person in the largest city in America,'' said Matt Foreman, executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force. ''In terms of raw political power, the size of the city budget and the Council's powers, she will become the most powerful openly lesbian or gay official in the country.''
 In six years on the Council, Christine Callaghan Quinn has proved to be both a formidable opponent and ally of the mayor's. 
 As chairwoman of the Health Committee, she has sponsored legislation to provide health care benefits to domestic partners and grocery workers over the objections of Mr. Bloomberg. But she also provided support for his ban on smoking in most restaurants and bars.
 Yesterday, in her first news conference since emerging as the next speaker, Ms. Quinn, who lives in Chelsea, appeared elated and a bit nervous as reporters and television cameras followed her around a center for the elderly in Greenwich Village.
 Though short of specifics, Ms. Quinn pledged to promote ''an aggressive legislative agenda'' that would revisit the issue of term limits for council members, which she opposes and the mayor supports. Ms. Quinn said that she envisioned her role as that of an equal partner with Mr. Bloomberg, adding that their relationship was ''a solid one, a professional one, one where we have mutual respect.''
 She takes on a post that has played an increasingly central role in running the city in recent years, with the departing speaker, Gifford Miller, often blocking Mr. Bloomberg's initiatives and overriding his vetoes of legislation. Many expect Ms. Quinn to take an even more active role in shaping policies, though perhaps by consulting more with the mayor.
 ''She's a person who's not afraid to stand up for what she believes in,'' said George Arzt, who has known Ms. Quinn for more than a decade. Mr. Arzt was press secretary for Mayor Edward I. Koch. ''But she tries to sit down and reason with you. If not, she will go her own way.''
 The Council's agenda for the next four years is expected to include efforts to extend term limits for council members from 8 to 12 years, to develop a waste disposal plan, and to create new zoning rules for a city bursting with economic growth and desperate for new housing.
 Ms. Quinn, who lives in a rent-stabilized apartment, said that she would seek to improve the lives of New Yorkers by preserving important social services like senior centers, among other things.
 ''I want to be a five-borough speaker who targets the problems and needs that New Yorkers face every day,'' she said. ''I want the City Council to be a place that in four years, New Yorkers will look back and say, 'Those people made the challenges we face easier.' ''
 Ms. Quinn emerged as a vocal and galvanizing detractor of the stadium as soon as the plan was unveiled in March 2004, helping to organize the opposition and lend it legitimacy before others took note of the issue's potency. It was not until November of that year that the Council speaker, Mr. Miller, spoke out against the plan. 
 And through her membership on the Council, she raised major questions about the planned public financing for the stadium in her district, which includes Greenwich Village, Chelsea, Clinton, parts of SoHo and Murray Hill.
 Despite their differences over the stadium project, Ms. Quinn has already started to build on her relationship with Mr. Bloomberg. In recent weeks, as she emerged as the strongest contender for speaker in a crowded field with six other council members, Ms. Quinn was invited to Gracie Mansion for coffee with Mr. Bloomberg, mayoral aides said. She happily obliged.
 And on Monday, the mayor called to congratulate Ms. Quinn after she received the support of the powerful Democratic organizations in Queens, the Bronx and Brooklyn, all but ensuring that she would be elected speaker by a majority vote of the council members today. 
 Mr. Bloomberg, who did not get along with the previous speaker, Mr. Miller, pledged yesterday to work with the Council's new leader.
 ''I don't agree with her on everything, she doesn't agree with the administration on everything,'' Mr. Bloomberg said about Ms. Quinn at a news conference at a Brooklyn park. ''But we'd be happy to work with whoever the City Council picks.''
 She entered the political world after meeting Thomas K. Duane, who would be the city's first openly gay council member, while she was running the Housing Justice Campaign for the Association of Neighborhood and Housing Development. She left that job to manage his 1991 campaign. 
 In the Council, Ms. Quinn's sensitivity has made her popular with other members and lobbyists, who praise her receptiveness and commitment to issues rather than adherence to any particular ideology. During hearings, she has not only teared up with joy but also let out loud belly laughs that make her colleagues chuckle.
 But Ms. Quinn's easygoing, gregarious demeanor can also be deceiving. Councilman James S. Oddo of Staten Island, the Republican minority leader, said he has watched with admiration as Ms. Quinn has evolved into a skilled leader with ''a laserlike concentration'' since they both started out as Council aides in the early 1990's. 
 ''She's lived through so many battles, and that provides you with armor for the battles yet to come,'' Mr. Oddo said. ''She has an institutional memory, and she's seen the best and the worst of the City Council.''
 Ms. Quinn, a Long Island native, said that her leadership style would be neither liberal nor conservative in the traditional sense, but rather pragmatic. ''What I would like to be is effective,'' she said. ''I like to think of myself as someone who is compassionate, and responsive and effective.'' 

PROFILE

Christine C. Quinn

BORN -- July 25, 1966

BIRTHPLACE -- Glen Cove, N.Y.

EDUCATION -- Trinity College, Hartford, class of 1988, degree in urban studies and education.

CAREER HIGHLIGHTS -- city councilwoman, 1999 to present; executive director, New York City Gay and Lesbian Anti-Violence Project, 1996 to '98; chief of staff for Councilman Thomas K. Duane, 1992 to '96; Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development, 1989 to '91.

FAMILY -- partner, Kim Catullo, a lawyer; father, Lawrence Quinn; sister, Ellen. (Her mother, Mary Callaghan Quinn, died in 1982.)

HOBBIES -- reading, time with family.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Christine Quinn, her father, Lawrence, and a supporter, Connie Prestia. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Christine C. Quinn got a warm reception yesterday at a center for the elderly in Greenwich Village. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (95%); CITIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); POLITICS (89%); VETO (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WOMEN (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); RESTAURANTS (66%); SMOKING (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); SMOKING BANS (50%); BUDGETS (50%) City Councils; Biographical Information; Homosexuality; Football; Stadiums and Arenas 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GAY & LESBIAN TASK FORCE (54%)

MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Christine C (Councilwoman) Quinn; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Winnie Hu

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York City

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



70 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Iran to Resume Its Nuclear Work; U.S. Warns of Seeking Restraints

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Iran announced Tuesday that it planned to restart nuclear research, a move that jeopardized an agreement with the Europeans, complicated a Russian initiative and prompted an American threat. 
 The decision, contained in a brief letter delivered Tuesday to the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, declared that Iran ''has decided to resume'' research and development ''on the peaceful nuclear energy program'' that was suspended under an agreement with France, Germany and Britain in late 2004.
 The letter did not define the research, but said the activities would resume Monday and be conducted ''in accordance with Iran's safeguards agreement'' with the I.A.E.A., the nuclear monitoring agency of the United Nations. 
 ''Research'' has been a code word for experiments in enrichment of uranium at the previously secret facility at Natanz in central Iran. There is particular concern that Iran intends to reopen that site, perhaps to conduct modest enrichment experiments or even to manufacture and assemble centrifuges for enrichment, the most sensitive part of the nuclear fuel cycle.
 Iran's move complicates a Russian initiative to break the deadlock over whether Iran has the right to enrich uranium. Russia has proposed that Iran be allowed to conduct uranium enrichment activities in Russia, as a way to guarantee that Iran's nuclear program is peaceful. A delegation from Moscow is scheduled to arrive in Tehran for talks this weekend, although Iranian officials have been less than enthusiastic about the proposal.
 The United States warned Iran that it could face unspecified consequences if it resumed nuclear activities. ''If Iran takes any further enrichment-related steps, the international community will have to consider additional measures to restrain Iran's nuclear ambitions,'' said Sean McCormack, a State Department spokesman.
 After receiving the letter, I.A.E.A. officials described its contents to representatives of the 35 countries that make up its board, which could censure Iran by referring its case to the United Nations Security Council.
 Iran has argued consistently that its decision to enter into an agreement with the Europeans to suspend all uranium conversion and enrichment activities was temporary, not required under its international treaty obligations and dependent on receiving a broad range of economic, technological, political and security incentives which it said have not been forthcoming. It has also insisted repeatedly that it has a sovereign right to develop the nuclear fuel cycle in its own territory.
 Indeed, in defending Iran's decision, the letter said that the suspension of the country's nuclear-related activities under the European agreement had been ''voluntary and non-legally binding.''
 But the United States, and to an increasing extent the Europeans, are convinced that Iran is determined to become a nuclear power and have taken a forceful stance in trying to ban Iran from conducting any nuclear activity that could help in a weapons program.
 This most recent decision is certain to further erode foreign confidence in Iran's leadership.
 The Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, has faced broad international condemnation recently for his inflammatory statements that the Holocaust is a myth and that Israel should be ''wiped off the map.'' On Sunday, Mr. Ahmadinejad said Europe had decided to create Israel as a ''Jewish camp'' in the midst of Muslim countries as the best way to rid Europe of Jews.
 Last August, Iran angered its European negotiating partners and the United States when it resumed the process of converting uranium at its site at Isfahan, a clear violation of the European agreement, but only a preliminary step in mastering the nuclear fuel cycle.
 Criticism of Iran's decision to restart nuclear research and development activities was swift.
 Besides the American threat, a statement from the British Foreign Office called Iran's letter ''unhelpful and provocative,'' while Cristina Gallach, a spokeswoman for the European Union, branded it ''a step in the wrong direction.''
 France called on Iran to reverse its decision. ''We want Iran to abide by the suspension of all activities related to enrichment and reprocessing,'' a Foreign Ministry spokesman, Jean-Baptiste Mattei, told reporters.
 Mohamed ElBaradei, the director of the nuclear agency, also called on Iran in a statement to maintain ''its suspension of all enrichment-related activity as a key confidence-building measure'' and to resolve other issues about its nuclear program.
 The I.A.E.A. has repeatedly criticized Iran for failing to fully cooperate with requests to open certain facilities to its inspectors.
 The agency has summoned Iranian officials to a meeting in Vienna on Wednesday to explain their intentions on research.
 In a proposal presented last spring to the three European governments, Iran outlined steps that it said would advance its nuclear program, while providing assurances that its program was peaceful. Among the proposals was the installation of 3,000 centrifuges at Natanz.
 On Monday, the head of the national security commission in Parliament, Alaeddin Borujerdi, said in Tehran that Iran was ''determined'' to reactivate the Natanz facility.
 Iran could be gambling that even if it restarts nuclear research activities, it would once again avoid international sanctions. Despite threats by both the United States and the Europeans to refer Iran to the Security Council for punitive action after it resumed activities at Isfahan, the countries were forced to back down in the face of opposition from China and Russia, which each have veto power there.
 In Tehran on Tuesday, Mohammad Saeedi, the deputy head of the atomic energy agency, said on state television that Iran would resume research, without providing details.
 He stressed that the research ''has no connection with the production of nuclear fuel,'' but did not specify whether that ruled out all activities related to uranium enrichment.
 He also portrayed the decision as one of national self-interest, explaining that the suspension of key nuclear activities under the agreement with the Europeans had hurt Iran. ''During this period our experts incurred heavy losses and many of our researchers have lost their jobs,'' he said.
 The letter to the I.A.E.A., which was signed with a scrawl, but without a typed name identifying the official, was written on stationery of the Permanent Mission of Iran to the United Nations in Vienna.
 Parts of the letter were quoted in an I.A.E.A. news release while other parts were disclosed by a European diplomat who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the fears surrounding the nuclear issue.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran spoke yesterday to Parliament in Tehran. He has faced Western criticism for his nuclear policies. (Photo by Vahid Salemi/Associated Press)(pg. A7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); CENTRIFUGES (68%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%); UNITED NATIONS (56%) International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (79%) Elaine Sciolino; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (90%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); GERMANY (73%) Iran; Russia; Germany; France; Great Britain; Iran

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



71 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: To Battle, Armed With Shares 

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Two months ago, a little-known investor demanded that the publisher of The Miami Herald and The Philadelphia Inquirer be put up for sale. Just 14 days later, after several other investors also emerged with the same demand, the board of the publisher, Knight Ridder, gave in and put the company on the block.
 Unlike the 1980's, when such challenges might be resisted at all costs, today corporate boards are adjusting to a new reality: the activist investor, armed with a handful of shares and a megaphone, is changing corporate America and the deal-making landscape.
It is happening at big and small companies everywhere. At Time Warner, the media giant, the billionaire financier Carl C. Icahn has pressed the company to buy back billions of dollars more of its shares -- and Time Warner has done so to some extent, although without crediting Mr. Icahn. At Six Flags, the amusement park company, Daniel Snyder, the owner of the Washington Redskins football team, pushed the company to put itself up for sale and he then took over the board. 
 The quick response by Knight Ridder came after Bruce S. Sherman, an investor based in Florida, started his blistering attack.
 Nelson Peltz -- another investor who, like Mr. Icahn, was once derided as a corporate raider -- has started a fund, Trian, that pursues what he calls "operational activism." In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission related to its campaign involving Wendy's International, Trian said that it did not seek to take over companies, just to prod them into action by threatening to start a proxy contest for seats on the board.
 And while Kirk Kerkorian has not turned into an activist at General Motors just yet, he is widely expected to begin waging a campaign if the company's fortunes do not turn around soon.
 ''I think that we've only scratched the surface on the pressure by hedge fund activist investors on companies to make changes in their business in order to increase the current price of their stock,'' said Martin Lipton, the takeover lawyer who is a founding partner at the Wall Street law firm of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz. ''We have a group of activist hedge funds now where the hedge funds essentially marshal over a trillion dollars of capital, joined in by many of the traditional institutions.''
 Activist investors, who were labeled greenmailers in the 1980's, are being listened to by boards that once would not even acknowledge them. That shift toward shareholders' interests has been a long time coming, as outside directors have become more questioning and demanding of top executives and as defenses like poison pills that once entrenched management have been eroded by the courts. 
 ''Boards feel today that they are under an unprecedented level of scrutiny from every direction -- from the Congress, courts, shareholders and the media,'' said Paul T. Schnell, a partner at the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. ''They are no longer always going to side with management when an activist comes along.''
 Jack Levy, chairman of the mergers and acquisitions practice at Goldman Sachs, said: "A lot is happening in the environment which allows activists to stir the pot. And therefore, I think it's too simple to conclude that the activists are solely responsible for all the change today."
 Still, this activism may also prompt more underperforming companies to get out of the cross hairs of shareholders and go private. That would add more fuel to the recent frenzy of deal making by private equity firms, flush with cash, said Douglas Braunstein, the head of investment banking for the Americas at J. P. Morgan Chase.
 ''Managements may decide that being private is more attractive and that they can unlock more value than being a public company,'' he said. ''My prediction is that activism is going to create more opportunities for public companies to go private.''
 The stakes have indeed become much higher. Activists are not just demanding minor changes in business strategies or management ranks anymore. They are pushing for complex, often wholesale, changes. This year, MCI agreed to sell itself to Verizon for $6.6 billion. 
 A rival, Qwest Communications, jumped into the fray with a higher bid, but one that was not considered credible by many on Wall Street. Still, a vocal group of activist shareholders, led by Leon Cooperman, the longtime hedge fund manager, put their weight behind Qwest's offer and eventually forced Verizon to raise its offer to $8.5 billion to seal the deal.
 In another instance, VNU, the Dutch publishing and market research company, was forced to abandon its $6.4 billion deal to acquire IMS Health after a shareholder revolt.
 But perhaps the greatest shift in the influence that activist shareholders have gained is the role that once-conservative institutional investors -- big money managers like the mutual fund giant Fidelity -- have begun to take. 
 ''You have establishment institutions that now think they have to be more proactive,'' said Charles I. Cogut, a partner at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett who runs its mergers and acquisitions practice. ''That's the big difference.''
 For decades, institutional investors, despite their size, were relatively passive in the positions they would take in their investments. For the most part, they sided with management when shareholder activists emerged. Now they are joining the activists.
 As part of Mr. Icahn's campaign at Time Warner, he has assembled a group of investors that includes more than the usual suspects of fellow activists. Indeed, the group includes Franklin Advisers, a unit of Franklin Templeton, that has long been considered one of the more traditional institutional investors.
 With activists so active, Wall Street's allegiances may be changing. Lazard, for example, recently began representing Mr. Icahn. 
 "In the past, a bank would never represent a hedge fund or activist as a client," said Boon Sim, the head of mergers and acquisitions for the Americas at Credit Suisse First Boston. "Increasingly, there is a lot of pressure for the major banks to reconsider that position."
 Despite the surge in activist activity, not everyone is convinced that activism is here to stay. 
 ''While activism will assuredly rise in 2006, the movement will likely abate,'' said Paul Taubman, who runs the mergers and acquisitions practice at Morgan Stanley.
 ''Activists will increasingly be held to a higher standard. Do they have a proven record of value creation? Does their plan make sense? Or are they simply mischief makers?'' he said. ''The mere existence of activists creates efficiencies in the system,'' he added, explaining that many corporate boards are trying to stay one step ahead of activists by making changes.
 Scott A. Barshay, a partner at the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, said the issue of activism has been overblown. ''The number of big companies truly subject to a successful attack by activists is small,'' he said.
 But, at least for now, activism is here and some corporations are finding ways to take advantage of it. One trend in 2005 that is expected to continue is what is known as deal jumping: an interloper pursues a company that has already agreed to be sold to another party. Interlopers are increasingly depending on activist shareholders to champion their cause. 
 Interlopers emerged in a handful of big deals last year. Boston Scientific has a competing offer on the table for Guidant, which had agreed to be acquired by Johnson & Johnson for $21.5 billion. Cnooc, a Chinese state-owned oil company made an $18.5 billion, ultimately unsuccessful, bid for Unocal, which had agreed to be sold to Chevron. Whirlpool won a bidding war for Maytag after it had agreed to be sold to Ripplewood Holdings, a private equity firm, and Qwest made an offer for MCI after it had agreed to be sold to Verizon.
 ''It's remarkable,'' said Steven Baronoff, who heads Merrill Lynch's mergers and acquisitions practice. ''Once a transaction is announced, other companies have no compunction about stepping in on either side of the transaction. Part of the reason is that these deals will only be successful if shareholders support them, and shareholders are increasingly taking activist roles in choosing the transaction they want.''
 There remains an underlying question about whether all of this activism is in the best interests of the corporations and the entire market. 
 Mr. Lipton, for one, is dubious. ''I think it's a terrible thing for corporate America,'' he said. ''I think what we're seeing is a replay of the attempt to drive American business to short-term results instead of long-term values. And ultimately it's a tremendous threat to the vitality of our economy. I think that it's even more dangerous than the kind of junk bond bust-up, the greenmail activity of the 70's and early 80's.''
 Mark G. Shafir, global head of mergers and acquisitions at Lehman Brothers, said: ''The jury is still out on whether these guys will generate returns. It'll be very interesting to see what happens."


GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard D. Parsons
Carl C. Icahn
John T. Schuessler
Nelson Peltz
Rick Wagoner
Kirk Kerkorian
Anthony Ridder
 Bruce S. Sherman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); BONDS (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (86%); FAST FOOD (86%); RESTAURANTS (79%); TAKEOVERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (68%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (67%); SPORTS (67%); LEGAL SERVICES (65%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (65%); ETHICS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Boards of Directors; Restaurants; Fast Food Industry; Stocks and Bonds; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Automobiles ; Newspapers; Stocks and Bonds; Ethics

COMPANY: WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (81%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON REDSKINS (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%) Tim Hortons (Restaurant Chain); Trian; Wendy's International Inc; Time Warner Inc; America Online Inc; General Motors Corp; Tracinda Corp; Gannett Co; Knight Ridder; Private Capital Management Lp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (93%); KIRK KERKORIAN (78%); RICK WAGONER (61%); RICHARD D PARSONS (54%) Andrew Ross Sorkin; Carl C Icahn; Kirk Kerkorian; Bruce S Sherman

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



72 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; EATING WELL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: In Oregon, Thinking Local

BYLINE: By Marian Burros

 BODY:
SIX years ago ''organic'' was the next big thing in grocery shopping, but the term has begun to lose its luster. It has been co-opted by agribusiness, which has succeeded in watering down the restrictions of the definition. Today ''local'' and ''sustainable'' are the new culinary buzzwords. 
 Nowhere is this more evident than in the six New Seasons markets in and around Portland, Ore. At New Seasons, ''homegrown'' is not only the coin of the realm, it's the heavily promoted mantra.
 Considering how eating has changed over the years, stores like New Seasons were almost inevitable. First came the tiny natural food stores and the local farmers' markets selling organically grown food. They marked the beginning of an interest in artisanal foods and in the desire for quality and a sustainable environment. Restaurants followed, and now schools and colleges have joined the movement as a way to get their students to eat more healthfully while supporting local farmers and food processors. 
 ''I think there is a gathering sense that organic and local are not the same,'' said Michael Pollan, the author of a forthcoming book, ''The Omnivore's Dilemma,'' and a frequent contributor to The New York Times Magazine. ''Buying national organic products does very little for the local economy. Local food chains are very, very important. Organic has important values having to do with pesticides and how land is treated, but now that it is industrialized, buying organic doesn't necessarily support living in a place that still has farmers consuming less energy.''
 He added: ''Moving organic food across the country uses just as much energy as conventional. I think this is becoming more important.''
 Kristen Crittenden, a technical writer for Cascade Microtech, is the quintessential New Seasons shopper. ''It's nice to know where our food is coming from because you know how it was raised,'' she said. ''It makes you feel good about supporting your local farmer and your local fishing industry.''
 These services come at a price. ''I feel at times it's a little more expensive than it has to be,'' said Justin Miller, a mediator, public radio fund-raiser and New Seasons customer.
 Brian Rohter, chief executive of New Seasons and one of its three founders, says the company conducts monthly surveys and has found that its pricing does not vary more than 3 percent either way when compared to national chains, including Whole Foods.
 The company's definition of homegrown is food grown, caught or processed in its region, the northwest, including Northern California. Locally grown items carry yellow shelf tags. Of the 30,000 items on each store's shelves, 8,142, or 27 percent, have yellow tags. The company, which was founded in 2000, sells conventional items like Oreos and Velveeta, but about 75 percent of its inventory is either natural or organic.
 All produce and meats carry country-of-origin labeling. Because the milk is local, none of it is ultrapasteurized.
 Staff members make frequent visits to farms, ranches, dairies and farmers' markets, looking for new products. And farmers who sell to the chain can deliver directly to the stores without going through a central distribution warehouse.
 The opportunity to sell locally has kept some area ranchers from going out of business in Oregon and nearby states. Doc and Connie Hatfield, who founded the Country Natural Beef cooperative in 1986, said the co-op now has 70 ranchers, who raise beef on a vegetarian diet free of hormones, antibiotics and genetically modified feed.
 ''Nineteen years ago we were going broke,'' Mr. Hatfield said. ''Now we are paying income taxes.''
 Mr. Hatfield was just as pleased about an unexpected byproduct of selling locally: the bond forged between rural and urban residents.
 ''Most of the ranchers are rural, religious, conservative Republicans,'' Mr. Hatfield said. ''And most of the customers are urban, secular, liberal Democrats. When it comes to healthy land, healthy food, healthy people and healthy diets, those tags mean nothing. Urbanites are just as concerned about open spaces and healthy rural communities as people who live there. When ranchers get to the city, they realize rural areas don't have a corner on values. I think that's what we are most excited about.''
 Locally raised meat is one of the things Mr. Miller said he liked best about New Seasons. 
 ''I'm an omnivore, and the meat comes from nearby,'' he said. ''Unlike a conventional market, where everything is packaged in plastic, this is more like an old-fashioned butcher, so I can talk to the guy and see what he thinks about the meat.''
 If there is any doubt about the impact purchasing locally has on nearby farms, the United States Department of Agriculture's agriculture census tells the story. In Oregon the number of farms has risen, from 26,753 in 1974 to 40,033 in 2002, the latest year for which figures are available.
 The emphasis on local is not the only thing that distinguishes New Seasons from other chains. Its employees are given ''get out of jail free'' cards with the instructions to do anything a customer wants. Mr. Rohter said one young clerk opened 81 jars of mustard for a customer to taste. Then he went to his supervisor, handed the card to him and explained what happened.
 Printed on the back of the card:
 ''Dear Supervisor: The holder of this card was, in their best judgment, doing whatever was necessary to make a happy customer. If you think they may have gone overboard, please take the following steps: 1. Thank them for giving great customer service. 2. Listen to the story about the events. 3. Offer feedback on how they might do it differently next time. 4. Thank them for giving great customer service.''
 ''We never reprimand someone for helping a customer,'' Mr. Rohter said.
 Phil Lempert, who identifies supermarket and consumer trends as the editor of Supermarketguru.com, praised the company.
 ''The New Seasons model is a brilliant concept because it brings back the days of food co-ops, the feeling of being closer to nature, to the food supply, to the neighborhood,'' he said. ''What they are saying is, we are your store and we want to build a relationship with you. That lack of relationship has been the downfall of supermarkets.
 ''National and seminational chains are yesterday's news. There is no question people are willing to spend more on local just as they are on organic.''
 New Seasons's decisions about what it will and will not sell are based on a balance of its owners' standards and what its shoppers want. It does not sell cigarettes or farmed salmon, because, Mr. Rohter said, ''some things are so obviously wrong.'' 
 Rather than ban certain endangered fish from their counters, the stores color-code them according to their sustainability: red means avoid. When I visited, the only fish with a red label was local red snapper. In an effort to persuade customers to make more sustainable choices, the company offers comparative fish tastings.
 ''We aren't trying to guilt-trip anyone,'' Mr. Rohter said. ''We aren't the food police.'' 
 But the chain has stopped selling the Rockstar energy drink, and not because it is made with caffeine, sugar and corn syrup. Rockstar's chief executive is Russell Goldencloud Weiner, who developed the company with the help of his mother and his father, Michael Savage, the far-right talk radio host. Mr. Rohter said he made the decision because he vehemently opposes Mr. Savage's views. ''We have a few products we choose to make a stand on to help influence the direction of our community,'' he said. Mr. Savage did not respond to a message left at his workplace and could not be reached at home.
 Can people in other cities expect their own versions of New Seasons? Yes, Mr. Rohter said, but they will not be run by him or his company. ''We give advice all the time,'' he said.
 He said he and his partners, who have three more stores on the way, do not plan to open any beyond Portland's suburbs. 
 ''I believe it would fundamentally change the way we do business,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The Eating Well column last week about New Seasons markets in and around Portland, Ore., which specialize in local products, misstated the kinds of milk sold there. A small percentage of the milk, not none of it, is ultrapasteurized.

GRAPHIC: Photos: WHERE'S IT FROM? Produce at New Seasons Market stores in Portland, Ore., carries country-of-origin labeling.
TALK TO THE BUTCHER -- A customer ordering hand-crafted sausages, one of the many local products at the store. (Photographs by Melanie Conner for The New York Times)(pg. F2)
 (Photo by Melanie Conner for The New York Times)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIC FOODS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (74%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (71%); WRITERS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); PESTICIDES (69%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (50%); PUBLIC RADIO (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Food; Organic Foods and Products

COMPANY: CASCADE MICROTECH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: New Seasons Market (Portland, Ore)

TICKER: CSCD (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334515 INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING & TESTING ELECTRICITY & ELECTRICAL SIGNALS (53%); NAICS334514 TOTALIZING FLUID METER & COUNTING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3825 INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASURING & TESTING OF ELECTRICITY & ELECTRICAL SIGNALS (53%)

PERSON: Marian Burros

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%) OREGON, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



73 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: News of $2 Billion Surplus Precedes Pataki's Speech

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Michael Cooper contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
A day before his final State of the State address, Gov. George E. Pataki said on Tuesday that New York's budget surplus was now projected to be $2 billion, twice previous estimates. 
 The revelation of the surplus in the state's $106.7 billion budget led Republicans in the State Senate to speculate that the governor would announce new tax cuts in his address on Wednesday afternoon. But Mr. Pataki, who is not seeking re-election, declined to give a preview of his 12th and final speech to open the legislative season.
 Mr. Pataki, who has been spending time in Iowa and New Hampshire and is considering a presidential bid, could use a fresh round of tax cut proposals to bolster his conservative credentials for a potential run. 
 ''This is a dramatic turnaround from last year, when we were looking at a $4 billion deficit,'' Mr. Pataki said on Tuesday. ''It just shows that good government policies like reforming and controlling the cost of Medicaid and putting in place economic policies where our economy is expanding and growing have led to higher revenues and lower costs.''
 Budget experts have said some of the chief reasons for the state's improving financial picture are somewhat beyond the governor's control, namely improvements in the economy. Mr. Pataki also said that ''stronger economic growth than had been anticipated'' was a major factor. The budget was also helped this year by windfall proceeds from the conversion of New York's largest health insurer, Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield, into a profit-making company that has since been taken over by WellPoint. 
 Timothy Blake, the lead New York State analyst for Moody's Investors Service Inc., which upgraded New York's debt rating last month, said strengthening profits among Wall Street firms were probably driving the increases in revenue projections. 
 ''Bonuses are quite good and the firms' profits are quite good, and they're taxed on their profits,'' Mr. Blake said. ''But it's not unreasonable for the state to be cautious, because this industry is volatile.''
 Tax increases approved by the Legislature in 2003, overriding Mr. Pataki's veto, were also a factor in the current surplus.
 ''It was the Legislature that pushed that through,'' Mr. Blake said. Those tax increases, however, were phased out at the end of last year, and a $2.5 billion deficit is projected for the coming fiscal year, which ends in March 2007.
 Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, called on the governor to use at least some of the surplus to begin complying with a court ruling that found that students in New York City public schools had been shortchanged, and a related court order to increase spending for them by $5.6 billion a year. The order has led other communities across the state to file lawsuits similar to the one that led to it. 
 ''It's time that we did what every court in this state has said that we had to do,'' said Mr. Silver, who has favored school spending increases across the state. The Pataki administration is appealing the court order. 
 Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader of the Senate, said tax cuts should be a top priority. ''I think he'll propose tax cuts,'' he said, referring to the governor's coming speech. ''We're going to be interested in which tax cuts he proposes, because we feel you've got to focus on property tax cuts.''
 Mr. Pataki cautioned against spending all the surplus. ''We have to look at '07, '08 and beyond and look at the long term,'' he said
 The three state leaders appeared together Tuesday to announce financing for a new center for research into nanotechnology in the Albany area, and they also appeared later to announce the creation of three new Empire Zones, which offer tax breaks to businesses to promote job growth, in Chinatown, and in Nassau and Livingston Counties. 
 Mr. Pataki cut short questions at the second event. ''I have to go write a speech,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki worked yesterday on his last State of the State speech, to be given today. (Photo by Jim McKnight/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MEDICAID (78%); VETO (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%) State of the State Message (NYS)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (65%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (54%); WELLPOINT INC (53%)

TICKER: WLP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (54%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (53%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim; George E (Gov) Pataki; Michael Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



74 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Lawsuit Challenges Building of Casino Off Indian Land

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
In the latest salvo between local advocates and government officials over this city's future, a coalition of citizens' groups, churches, business people and lawyers filed a lawsuit in federal court on Tuesday to halt construction of an Indian casino on the Buffalo River waterfront.
 The suit alleges that federal officials, including Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton, failed to abide by a 1988 law regulating gambling facilities established off reservation land when they approved the proposed Buffalo casino. The proposed facility is one of three gambling sites in this region allowed under a 2002 compact between New York State and the Seneca Nation. 
In legal papers filed in Federal District Court, the plaintiffs -- led by a group called Citizens Against Casino Gambling in Erie County -- said that a Buffalo casino cannot be permitted under federal law, because the nine-acre site along the Buffalo River is not adjacent to an existing reservation and was not part of land claimed by the Seneca Nation.
 In addition, the suit alleges that the approval process violated federal laws that require a study of the environmental impact of a proposed casino. The plaintiffs also say that demolition of a grain elevator at the proposed site would violate the National Historic Preservation Act.
 ''Some people have tried to make this into grain silos versus a casino, but this is a much more important issue,'' said Richard Lippes, one of the plaintiffs' lawyers. ''These citizens aren't opposed to progress. They just want the right things to happen in the right way.''
 Barry E. Snyder, president of the Seneca Nation, was not available for comment Tuesday afternoon. But on Friday, he spoke dismissively of a possible lawsuit during the partial opening of a luxury hotel adjacent to the Senecas' existing casino in Niagara Falls.
 ''Lawsuits come and go -- they don't interest me,'' Mr. Snyder was quoted as saying in The Buffalo News. ''We took the opportunity to build a casino and hotel in Niagara Falls because no one else would do it. I've said the same of Buffalo, and we're going ahead. I'm a man of my word.''
 Proponents also maintain that the casino will create jobs as well as spur economic development in the long dormant area. 
 Several parties to the lawsuit, including Mr. Lippes and the Preservation Coalition of Erie County, also took part in recent years in two other significant civic lawsuits that sought to preserve land.
 They were among the litigants who halted a state plan to build a marina, which would have been constructed atop limestone walls that were part of the original terminus of the Erie Canal, and a proposal by an international commission to build a steel bridge next to the Peace Bridge, which was built in 1927 and connects Buffalo to Fort Erie, Ontario.
 In each instance, a judge ruled that the government agencies involved did not follow proper planning procedures. Both plans have since been revised. The waterfront plans, proposed by the Empire State Development Corporation, now include the restoration of the canal terminus and other historic elements. As for the bridge, a two-nation panel has recommended a sweeping cable-stayed bridge over the Niagara River. 
 ''In both cases, we got something better,'' said Mr. Lippes, who served as general counsel to the primary plaintiff in each case.
 Like the waterfront and Peace Bridge suits, the legal challenge to the proposed Seneca Buffalo Creek Casino is being financed in part by the Margaret L. Wendt Foundation, which often provides money to educational or artistic organizations.
 ''We feel the need to make sure the laws are followed when making this kind of change to our community,'' said Janet Loew Day, a foundation trustee. 
 The plaintiffs said that taking the land for the proposed casino site off the tax rolls and creating, in essence, a tiny sovereign nation housing the casino would run counter to the canal restoration plans and other nascent development in the area.


GRAPHIC: Photo: As several groups sought to halt a Seneca Nation casino, demolition crews brought down a building yesterday at the proposed site in Buffalo. (Photo by David Duprey/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (95%); SUITS & CLAIMS (93%); CASINOS (93%); GAMING (91%); APPROVALS (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (77%); MARINAS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (77%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); MARINE & WATERWAY CONSTRUCTION (77%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (72%); HISTORY (71%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (66%); JOB CREATION (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%) Gambling; Seneca Indians; Indians, American; Casinos; Suits and Litigation; Law and Legislation

PERSON: David Staba

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; Buffalo (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



75 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Apartment Sales Decline, But Manhattan Prices Hold

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
In an uncertain real estate market, the number of sales of Manhattan co-ops and condominiums fell sharply in the last quarter, though prices were mostly flat, according to market data released yesterday. 
 Sale prices remained above the levels of a year ago although they were below the record high prices reported in the spring.
Sales usually slow during the holiday season, but this decline was precipitous, 21 percent below the number reported in the previous quarter and 27 percent below the number of sales in the last quarter a year earlier, according to a market report released yesterday by Prudential Douglas Elliman. 
 The decline was widely attributed to uncertainty by buyers who were spooked by reports of a real estate bubble about to burst, and worries over the economic damage from higher gasoline prices, hurricane damage and rising mortgage rates. The Elliman study reported 1,574 sales in the last three months, compared with 1,997 the previous quarter and 2,181 in the spring when prices were highest. 
 ''There was a negative swirl in the market; every pronouncement using the bubble term made buyers pause,'' said Jonathan Miller, the president of Miller Samuel Inc., an appraisal firm, who prepared the Elliman report. ''We are not seeing prices fall; we are just seeing fewer sales.''
 Adding to the uncertainty was the release of three contradictory market reports yesterday purporting to measure the same thing -- current prices of Manhattan co-ops and condos. Prices were reported to be up slightly, down slightly, or down more sharply, from the previous quarter, depending on who was counting. 
 The Elliman report found that despite the slowing sales, the average price of a Manhattan apartment rose 3.3 percent, to $1,187,000, from the previous quarter, but nearly 10 percent below the peak reported in the second quarter. Even so, the average remained 23 percent above the average in the last quarter of 2004. 
 And it reported that the average sale price per square foot -- which takes into account the changes in mix of large and small apartments -- rose above $1,000 for the first time this quarter, to $1,002 a square foot. 
 A second report by two other brokerage firms, Brown Harris Stevens and Halstead, found that average prices declined from the previous quarter by 4.3 percent, to $1,090,000. A third report by the Corcoran Group, found that average prices had declined 7 percent, to $1,129,000.
 The differences reflect the difficulties in collecting data in Manhattan, where co-op sales prices are not publicly reported, and condominium sale deeds are often filed a month or more after a sale is completed. But they may also reflect changes in the market that occurred late in the quarter that were picked up by some surveys but not by others.
 Brokers said, for instance, that they had seen a flurry of contracts in the last few weeks, especially in the more expensive apartments, as buyers contemplating softening prices and end-of-year bonuses decided to overcome their fears and buy. But most of them would not have found their way into the reports. 
 ''There was significant pickup in the last six weeks of the market; the buyers came flocking back,'' said Pamela Liebman, chief executive and president of the Corcoran Group. ''Part of it was the anticipation of the Wall Street bonuses, part of it was the feeling that there was some opportunity to buy and negotiate.'' 
 The market watchers also point to other optimistic signs: a handful of sales of more than $10 million that have gone into contract but not yet closed, and that are not reflected in the current data. And they note that the current market numbers do not include dozens of sales in new buildings that went to contract this fall but will not be reflected in sales statistics for a year or more, until buildings are completed and the sales close. 
 Gregory Heym, chief economist for Brown Harris Stevens and Halstead, attributed the decline in the average sale price in his study to the declining share of sales of large apartments in the last six months, and the increasing share of lower-priced studios and one-bedrooms. 
 ''The only thing holding prices back is the fact that mix has changed,'' he said. 
 In his study, for instance, sales of studio and one-bedroom apartments accounted for 61 percent of all sales, up from 55 percent in the fourth quarter a year earlier.
 And the Corcoran study, which recorded the largest decline in overall average sales, prices of one- and two-bedroom apartments actually rose, while those of studios and large apartments of three bedrooms or more fell. 
 The inventory of unsold co-ops and condos on the market also rose again in the last quarter, often a sign of a weakening market. Yet the increase, 3.5 percent to 5,964 listings, was only modest, compared with the 16 percent increase from the second to third quarter, according to Mr. Miller. The average number of days an apartment was on the market rose by four days, from 133 to 137.
 The inventory listings at the end of this quarter, 5,964, were far above the level reported a year earlier, when only 3,922 apartments were listed. Mr. Miller said inventory at the end of 2004 was the lowest in more than four years and marked the start of a large run-up in prices, and worries about a market bubble. 
 But he said the current inventory levels were below those found several years ago, and closer to balance between buyers and sellers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); HURRICANES (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (53%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%) Housing; Condominiums; Cooperatives; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (57%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Prudential Douglas Elliman; Brown Harris Stevens; Corcoran Group

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%)

PERSON: Josh Barbanel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



76 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Rebuilding Slows, as Does Factory Growth

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Growth in manufacturing slowed in December as the economic effects waned from the rebound from Gulf Coast hurricanes.
 The Institute for Supply Management said yesterday that its factory index fell to 54.2 last month, from 58.1 in November, the biggest decline since July 2002. The reading was the lowest since August and below a median forecast of 57.5 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. A reading greater than 50 indicates expansion. 
 Manufacturing leveled off after inventory restocking and reconstruction from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma spurred factory production in the previous two months.
 Economists said, though, that a pickup in consumer spending and investment by businesses in new equipment would help energize manufacturing growth this year.
 In December, manufacturing ''moderated significantly, moving from torrid to healthy,'' said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Conn. The growth figures, he said, ''are back to where they were before Katrina.''
 Also yesterday, the Commerce Department reported that construction rose less than forecast in November as home building declined for the first time in five months. Spending rose 0.2 percent, to an annual pace of $1.146 trillion, after a gain of 0.8 percent in October.
 Recent strength in manufacturing had helped buoy prospects for the economy as home construction and the real estate market started to cool. Factory-index readings exceeded 59 in both September and October. 
 The supply institute's gauge of new orders fell to 55.5 last month, from 59.8 in November. Order backlogs fell to 49.5, from 53.
 Companies have been relying on increased productivity, and some hiring, to meet demand. The production index, a measure of work being performed, fell to 57, from 60.6.
 The institute's employment index fell to 52.7, from 56.6 in November. Its index of supplier deliveries, which measures how long it takes to receive raw material, fell to 53.5, from 58.3 in November. A measure of new export orders fell to 54.3, from 59.2, which had been the highest since May 2004.
 ''Export demand, particularly in the Midwest, has been pretty good,'' said Kevin Harris, chief economist at Informa Global Markets in New York.
 The institute's inventories index fell to 47.2 in December, from 49.3 a month earlier.
 Ken Mayland, president of the research firm ClearView Economics, said: ''The most encouraging signs in the December report was that inventories declined in an absolute sense and at a faster rate. That implies a need for future restocking, and that should be a good sign for January, February and March.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Construction workers preparing cinder block for an elementary school near Salt Lake City. Hopes for a prosperous 2006 depend, some economists say, on a pickup in consumer spending and businesses' investment. (Photo by Douglas C. Pizac/Associated Press)Chart: ''Construction Spending''Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.Nov.: +0.2%Oct.: +0.8Sept.: +1.3(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); EXPORT TRADE (61%) 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Institute for Supply Management; Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



77 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: A Fed Signal Cheers Investors, Sending Markets Higher

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks began the year yesterday with their biggest rally since October, sparked by a signal that the Federal Reserve may soon stop raising interest rates.
 Prices surged after the Fed released minutes of a December meeting where policy makers lifted the benchmark lending rate for the 13th consecutive time. The number of additional increases needed to restrain inflation ''probably would not be large,'' according to the minutes.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 20.51 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,268.80 as all 10 industry groups increased. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 129.91 points, or 1.2 percent, to 10,847.41. Both stock indexes had their best gains since Oct. 28. The Nasdaq composite index was up 38.42 points, or 1.7 percent, to 2,243.74, for its biggest rally since July 8. United States exchanges were closed Monday in observance of the New Year's holiday. 
 Prices of Treasury securities also rose yesterday on the latest signs from the Federal Reserve. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 7/32, to 101 2/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.37 percent, from 4.39 on Friday. 
 ''We may be in a situation right now where we're seeing the best of all worlds'' with the economy slowing enough to let the Fed stop raising rates, said H. Giles Knight of Gartmore Global Investments in West Conshohocken, Pa. ''We've got a real good start here.''
 Financial shares gained 1.7 percent, as lower borrowing costs increase the value of bonds owned by banks, brokers and insurers, and increase demand for mortgages and loans.
 Bank of America, the No. 2 United States bank, added 93 cents, to $47.08, and Citigroup, the world's biggest bank, rose 76 cents, to $49.29.
 The minutes ''tended to validate a growing consensus on Wall Street that we're very near the end of the tightening,'' said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Company in New York.
 Crude oil for February delivery rose $2.10, or 3.4 percent, to $63.14 a barrel in New York, on signs that Russia may not be a dependable energy supplier after a pricing dispute between Russia and Ukraine disrupted natural gas shipments to Europe.
 An index of energy shares jumped 4.5 percent, its best performance since October 2002. Exxon Mobil, the world's biggest publicly traded oil company, rallied $2.30, or 4.1 percent, to $58.47.
 General Motors slumped 52 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $18.90, for the worst performance in the Dow average. A Banc of America Securities analyst, Ronald A. Tadross, said in a note that the shares might drop to $13 in the next year as the company's cost-cutting falls short of its forecasts. Mr. Tadross previously had a 12-month estimate of $16.
 Google gained $20.37, or 4.9 percent, to $435.23 after an analyst at Piper Jaffray said shares might increase 35 percent, to $600, from his previous target of $445 in 2006. 
 CBS rose 70 cents, or 2.8 percent, to close at $26.20 in its first day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The old Viacom company split into two, CBS and Viacom, allowing investors to value the company's cable television networks separately from broadcast businesses including CBS radio and TV. The new Viacom shares rose $1.54, or 3.9 percent, to close at $41.54.
 Almost four stocks rose for every one that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.92 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, the most in two weeks.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.971	97.843	High Rate	 4.070	 4.265	Investment Rate	 4.169	 4.420	Low Rate	 4.020	 4.215	Median Rate	 4.050	 4.240	Total applied for	$42,995,166	$35,881,691	Accepted	$23,520,062	$21,038,495	Noncompetitive	$1,758,138	$1,451,536	

Both issues are dated Jan. 05, 2006. The three-month bills mature on April 06, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on July 06, 2006.

 Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Graph: ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills
 in percent at weekly auction from October to December. (Source by The Bond Buyer)

Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INSURANCE (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%) 

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (63%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (51%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



78 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: In Commercial Leasing, a State of Balance

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
The year 2005 was generally a good one for both sides of the Manhattan office market. Vacancy rates declined, and that was good for building owners. And rents increased, but at a restrained pace, so those looking to lease space were generally not under intense price pressure.
 In short, many real estate executives say, neither tenants or landlords currently have the upper hand.
''We are at the sweet spot now, with a balanced marketplace,'' said Paul N. Glickman, an executive vice president at Cushman & Wakefield, a brokerage and services company. ''Equilibrium state is usually defined as a vacancy rate between 7 and 9 percent, and that is where we are.''
 According to statistics supplied by CB Richard Ellis, another brokerage and services company, at year-end the vacancy rate for Midtown stood at 9 percent and for Midtown South was 8.6 percent. But a sharply higher vacancy rate of 14.1 percent in the downtown market, defined as the area south of Canal Street, helped to raise the year-end average for all of Manhattan to 10.1 percent. Still, that was noticeably better than in 2004, when the average vacancy rate was 12.6 percent. 
 Real estate executives said the improvement in the leasing market was driven by an improving economy in the city and growth in the number of office jobs. Since companies that expect to be hiring people often lease space in advance, the real estate effect is often felt before the actual job creation.
 Summing up 2005, Barry Gosin, the vice chairman and chief executive of Newmark & Company Real Estate, said: ''We have added 40,000 jobs this year, with 17,000 in the office sector. We have had 4.5 million square feet of positive absorption, and there are bright spots in the economy, such as a revival in high-tech companies.'' Positive absorption means that the amount of space leased during the year exceeded the amount newly placed on the market.
 ''The amount of space being leased appears due to higher job growth than we have seen in city statistics,'' said Peter Riguardi, president of the New York region for Jones Lang LaSalle, a brokerage firm. ''Also, some people are leasing space to prepare for prospective growth.''
 According to the CB Richard Ellis figures, a total of 26.2 million square feet of space was leased last year in Manhattan, out of a total of approximately 400 million square feet. 
 Of the borough's three main office districts, Midtown was the most active, with 15 million square feet leased, while 5.2 million square feet was leased in Midtown South. The leasing activity for downtown was listed at 6 million square feet, but almost one-third of that was for the new headquarters for Goldman Sachs, which is not yet built.
 In some areas of Midtown, demand has been particularly strong. In the new office building at 505 Fifth Avenue, on the northeast corner of 42nd Street, 75 percent of the 300,000-square-foot structure was leased before it was completed, Mr. Glickman said.
 Despite the very busy pace of leasing, average rents have increased at a rate that is considered manageable. This is another sign of a market in balance, real estate professionals said.
 The average rent being asked for all of Manhattan last year was $43.58 a square foot, up 6.2 percent from the average of $41.04 in 2004, according to the CB Richard Ellis figures. Rents varied widely by location, with the average asking rent at $52.64 a square foot in Midtown, compared with $33.68 in Midtown South and $34.91 downtown.
 Even though the amount of space available for lease has been shrinking, many real estate executives say they expect to see only a gradual increase in rents this year.
 ''There are not a lot of big blocks of space out there, but there are not a lot of big tenants looking for space,'' said John F. Powers, chairman for the New York metropolitan area at CB Richard Ellis. ''This will be a prosperous year with positive net absorption. There will be slight, but real, price pressure, but we won't have rent spikes.''
 Some real estate executives note that concessions by landlords, such as periods of free rent while office interiors are constructed and financial contributions to the cost of building the interiors, usually shrink before asking rents are raised. But even in this area there has not been much movement, said Mitchell S. Steir, the chief executive of Studley, a brokerage firm that usually represents tenants.
 ''The concessions are smaller, but they are still quite healthy,'' Mr. Steir said. He said limited demand for office space and the reluctance of most tenants to bid against others for space would limit effective rent increases. ''I don't see space trending quickly to a 7 percent level,'' where rent spikes are likely, he said. ''And we don't see multiple tenants competing for the same deal.''
 But some on the landlord side of the equation say the amount of space available may allow for effective rent increases. ''We see a steady progression in rent,'' said Anthony E. Malkin, president of W.& M. Properties, which manages office buildings and other types of real estate owned by groups of investors. ''Rents are up about 5 percent and free rent is down 35 to 50 percent, although there has not been much improvement in tenant work.'' The free-rent calculation represents the amount of money that tenants save in the concession periods granted by landlords. 
 Nevertheless, he said, ''the vacancy rate is at a point where, historically, the advantage has shifted to the landlord.''
 While average rent increases have remained modest, in some locations recent leases have been signed at $100 a square foot with some tenants, something of a holy grail for office building owners in New York. Mr. Riguardi of Jones Lang LaSalle recently compiled a list of 16 leases in Midtown where rents exceed $100 a square foot.
 ''We have seen $100 rentals in isolated buildings in the past,'' he said. ''Now there are a dozen buildings where tenants are willing to pay $100 or more a square foot.''
 Most of these deals involve financial management companies that do not need much space -- typically less than 10,000 square feet -- and prize their locations high above Park, Fifth or Madison Avenue. 
 In the last few years, many real estate executives have remarked on the disconnection between the leasing and investment sales markets. The value of a building to an owner would logically be based on the income produced by leases. But even as the leasing market remained soft in the early years of this decade, building prices soared. This was attributed to decisions by the managers of large investment funds to decrease their investments in stocks and increase their allocation to real estate.
 ''The market seems to be in better balance now,'' said Warren M. Heller, executive managing director for capital transaction at Studley. ''Prices are not increasing rapidly, but we can't find any decreases.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul Glickman, left, a vice president at Cushman & Wakefield, said office vacancies were at a ''sweet spot,'' from 7 to 9 percent. He said a building at 505 Fifth Avenue, below left, was 75 percent rented before it was finished. (Photographs by Michael Falco for The New York Times)Chart: ''A Balanced Market''Asking rents for Manhattan commercial real estate rose slightly last year, and availability declined, but over-all the market remains in balance.Graphs track annual average asking rent (per square foot) and availability rate since 1996 for the following areas: MidtownMidtown SouthDowntown(Source by C.B. Richard Ellis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEASING INDUSTRY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (65%); JOB CREATION (65%) 

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (58%); JONES LANG LASALLE INC (58%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BGC PARTNERS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Cushman & Wakefield; Cb Richard Ellis

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%); JLL (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%)

PERSON: Philip S Glickman; John Holusha

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



79 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1603 words

HEADLINE: Students Return to Big Changes in New Orleans, With Charter Schools Taking the Lead

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Hundreds of children returned Tuesday for the first time since Hurricane Katrina to schools here that had survived on dry ground. Some came gleefully. Some came mournfully, and, to be sure, tens of thousands who were still displaced could not come at all.
 But for those who ventured back, the educational landscape was much different from the one they had left: New Orleans is now a smaller system dominated by new charter schools in the same buildings that housed traditional public schools before the storm, as well as by leaner private schools eager for what they hope will be new pools of aid.
''We're learning as we go,'' said Alisa Davailler Dupre, the vice chairwoman of the Audubon Charter School, which applied for its charter only in October and accomplished what is usually a lengthy start-up process in a mere two months. ''We jumped for joy, then hit the ground running.'' 
 The district's public school system, already known as one of the worst in the country, suffered a near total collapse after the storm. It has opened only one school so far -- another is expected to open next week -- even though many school buildings suffered minimal damage. Facing a financial crisis from the lack of a tax base, the district plans to terminate all but 61 of about 7,000 school employees who have been placed on disaster leave, although many are being rehired by the charter schools. The district was already nearly bankrupt before the storm. 
 So that has made this battered city an impromptu laboratory in school choice -- at least for the 8,000 or so of the 65,000 public school children who are expected to be enrolled for the second semester, as well as thousands more in parochial schools that are seeking government aid.
 Desperate to reopen schools, parents, teachers, principals, neighborhood groups and local universities are banding together to create charter schools, which get less state money than traditional public schools in exchange for more autonomy on curriculum, hiring and other issues. 
 Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco has already issued executive orders to make it easier to form charter schools, which promise competition and experimentation. The fact that there is $20 million in federal aid in the wake of Hurricane Katrina for charter schools in Louisiana is also contributing to the movement. 
 So far, state and local education officials have approved 21 charters for schools in New Orleans. Nine have opened -- including some on Tuesday -- and six are expected to open in the next two weeks. At least one is still waiting for electricity to be restored. The Archdiocese of New Orleans has also expressed interest in opening a charter school, though that idea has not been approved.
 The hopes and difficulties were evident at the Audubon Charter School, where students lined up quietly Tuesday morning. Staff members have been working at Audubon Charter without pay, as the school has yet to receive any financing. 
 Most administrators are holdovers from the old public school, Audubon Montessori. The principal, Janice Dupuy, drives two hours to get to New Orleans from the town where her family is living. Ms. Dupre, a parent who had not worked in school administration before becoming Audubon's vice chairwoman, was overwhelmed by the work required to get the school ready for its 350 students. 
 After the charter was approved, she said: ''We started to wonder, how do we hire teachers? How do we run this school?''
 Many people here, still struggling to cope in a fog of grief as stifling as the humidity this balmy winter, have applauded the spirit that has led to the creation of so many charter schools on such short notice.
 Without them, supporters say, there would hardly be any public education this year in New Orleans. And of all the opportunities for rebirth in the city, perhaps none is talked about with as much urgency as fixing the school system, which had suffered corruption, bad management and abysmal academic performance. But critics have also begun to question whether a near-total charter system is the best way to recreate a school system. 
 ''It's like you're experimenting with kids who've already been traumatized,'' said City Councilwoman Cynthia Hedge-Morrell, a member of the council's education committee and a former public school principal. ''The intricacies of running a successful school are a lot more difficult than anyone thinks.''
 Ms. Morrell also worries about charter schools' adopting selective criteria that will exclude what she calls ''the poor, average kid.''
 Officials say that because the movement is largely haphazard it is not entirely clear who is being served by the new system or whether the racial makeup of the new schools raises equity issues. Reliable demographic information is sorely lacking, but before the storm, the public schools were 94 percent African-American, and black children seemed to have a significant presence in the parochial schools.
 So far, schools do not seem to be rejecting anyone, just hoping that children continue to enroll. ''Nobody really knows who all is going to come back,'' said Cheryl Michelet, a spokeswoman for the Louisiana State Department of Education. 
 The advocates for charter schools understand that they may have only one chance to make right all that was wrong: ''We have a responsibility to rebuild it right,'' said Una Anderson, a school board member and proponent of charter schools. ''It's not just an opportunity, it's a mandate.''
 But even within some of the charter schools, there is lingering resentment toward the school district for not stepping up to do more. ''We never wanted to charter -- that was never our intention in the past,'' said Carol Christen, the principal of Franklin Charter High, which before the storm was Benjamin Franklin High School, the highest-ranked secondary school in the state. ''This has been a long ordeal because no one wanted to help us open up the school. This has been a nightmare, a struggle beyond struggle.''
 She continued: ''We were determined to do it for Franklin. It would have been tragic if this school didn't open.''
 Franklin probably faces some of the most challenging physical problems of all the charter schools in the wake of the storm because it is far from the city's Uptown area that remained dry during the flood. Franklin, on the other end of town near Lake Pontchartrain, had more than $3 million in storm damage, and is still waiting for electricity to be restored. The school expects 580 students for class on Jan. 17, out of the 935 that were enrolled before the storm.
 Ms. Christen, like others, said the charter start-up experience had forced teachers, principals and parents to deal with issues like waste management, food service and retirement benefits, taking time away from thinking about the classrooms. Still, she welcomes the autonomy.
 ''We're treading on new ground,'' Ms. Christen said. ''The city doesn't know the answers, the state doesn't know the answers. We're creating the answers as we go, and we're doing the best we can.''
 Advisers to the education committee created by Mayor C. Ray Nagin, the Bring New Orleans Back Commission, caution against an all-charter model, favoring a mix of district-run and charter-run schools arranged into network clusters run by a single manager. District schools are necessary, they say, because they have more capacity to expand as the population does, and to offer the benefit of standard curriculums to what might be a highly mobile student population. 
 The advisers, the Boston Consulting Group, which is working largely without pay, favor a single governing body citywide to take over from the multiple boards, state and local, that are in control right now.
 ''We believe that chartering is a very good short-term intervention given our situation, but it's not a long-term solution to running a medium- or large-scale school district,'' said Scott Cowen, the president of Tulane University and the chairman of the education committee. Mr. Cowen's group plans to offer a formal proposal on the new school system in a week or so, he said.
 State officials are taking a ''look and see'' approach to the new charters, which will be evaluated annually and will be held to the same accountability standards as other schools, Ms. Michelet said. 
 ''There's not a push to say every school in the district will be a charter, it's just the method we've used so far and we've seen success in it,'' she said. ''It's also because federal money was available, and we were able to use it to get the schools open.''
 The state considered New Orleans to be in ''academic crisis'' before the storm and has since taken over 102 of 117 schools that performed below state accountability standards -- three of those schools have been given charters, many others are storm damaged and likely to remain vacant for some time. The state is expected to lay out a detailed plan for the schools it took over sometime in the next six months. 
 At the same time, the city's Catholic schools, which educated 25,000 students before the storm, are also coming back to life and see possible new opportunities. Besides proposing its own charter school, the archdiocese has approached the state about getting government aid for its schools. Neither idea has gone beyond the development stage with the State Legislature out of session.
 The Catholic schools expect to have an enrollment of 11,000 this semester. Several Catholic schools opened late last year, and at least eight more were scheduled to reopen by mid-January, said Father William Maestri, the schools' superintendent.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ana Riehlmann, a teacher at the Audubon Charter School in New Orleans, greeted her students yesterday. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARTER SCHOOLS (92%); HURRICANES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); WEATHER (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); APPROVALS (74%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCHOOL CHOICE (71%); RELIGION (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (65%) Education and Schools; Charter Schools; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Private and Sectarian Schools

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (58%) Susan Saulny

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (98%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



80 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: An I.R.S. Audit May Be Cheaper Than I.R.S. Advice

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
Want to ask the Internal Revenue Service whether a wrinkle in rolling money from your 401(k) plan into another retirement account may result in additional taxes? Well, don't delay asking or it will cost you a lot more. 
 The I.R.S. charged $95 last year to rule in advance on unusual rollovers to individual retirement accounts, or I.R.A.'s. The new fees range from $500 to $3,000.
 For the top fee, the increase is more than 850 times the inflation rate. But if you ask before the end of the month, the I.R.S. will charge last year's fee. 
 The higher fees were buried deep in a regulatory notice posted on the I.R.S. Web site Tuesday night and spotted by Ed Slott, a Long Island accountant who publishes a newsletter on I.R.A. tax traps. 
 Other fee increases include charging $9,000, up from $2,750, to entrepreneurs who want to make sure that their simplified employee pension plans are not too complicated. Multinational businesses that want an advance agreement on how much in taxes they owe on imported goods will soon pay as much as $50,000, which is 10 times the minimum fee last year. 
 And many fee discounts that taxpayers of modest means received in the past will be reduced or eliminated, the I.R.S. announced. 
 Not every fee is going up. Mutual funds, insurers and other mass marketers of retirement plans will have their electronic filing fees cut to $200 from $280. 
 Terry Lemons, an I.R.S. spokesman, said the fees were required under a White House directive, first issued in the Eisenhower era and updated during the Clinton administration. ''We are supposed to charge fees that more accurately reflect the cost to us of delivering the service,'' Mr. Lemons said. 
 Mr. Slott, though, said, ''The I.R.S. is charging bigger fees than I do.'' 
 He also said the higher cost of an answer from the I.R.S. might be a worthwhile investment for big taxpayers. But for the average American with an I.R.A. -- who risks taxes, penalties and interest only if caught in an audit -- Mr. Slott added that ''it sounds like it may just be cheaper to mess up than to ask.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); US 401K PLANS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ACCOUNTING (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); INSURANCE (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); INFLATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BONDS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%) Taxation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Computers and the Internet; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Multinational Companies; Entrepreneurship; Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%) Internal Revenue Service

PERSON: David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



81 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Fashion House to Lose Creative Director

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
Chloe, the French fashion house that has been rapidly expanding to meet demand for its chic dresses and handbags, is expected to announce today that its creative director, Phoebe Philo, has resigned and will leave the company. 
 Ms. Philo effectively left Chloe shortly after the presentation in October of her spring collection. While her official departure has been rumored in the fashion industry for weeks, it was only in recent days that the company made plans to announce it, according to two executives who work for the label.
They said that Ms. Philo, 31, is leaving to spend time with her family. The company does not plan to name a successor immediately. Its design staff will produce the fall collection.
 Neither Ms. Philo nor Chloe's chief executive, Ralph Toledano, could be reached for comment.
 In the fashion world, Chloe has come to represent a contemporary feminine ideal, its floaty dresses and roomy Paddington bags as coveted as they are copied. 
 The company, a unit of the luxury group Richemont, does not release sales figures, but industry estimates put wholesale volume at around $300 million. Mr. Toledano said in an interview last spring that the company planned to open 30 boutiques in the next few years, as well as add children's wear and fine jewelry lines.
 Although Ms. Philo is known as being media-shy, her collections create the kind of excitement that retailers rely on to sell $1,500 handbags and $2,500 coats. While aware of her intentions to leave the company, retailing executives in London and New York said yesterday that they nonetheless had hoped she would reconsider.
 ''I'm very surprised that she's leaving,'' said Natalie Massenet, the chief executive of Net-a-Porter, the online shopping site based in London that is Chloe's official Web link. ''Chloe has this great momentum right now.'' She added that Chloe products are one of her company's biggest sources of revenue.
 Chloe also represents a significant and growing business to Bergdorf Goodman, its chief executive, James Gold, said. But like Ms. Massenet, he was reluctant to predict what effect her departure might have on consumer confidence in the brand. Mr. Gold said that Bergdorf's Chloe business remained strong for the fall 2005 season, a collection that Ms. Philo's design team produced while she was on maternity leave earlier in the year. Ms. Massenet said the collection also sold well on her site.
 Indeed, while Ms. Philo has brought undeniable leadership to Chloe, retailing executives say the success of luxury brands like Gucci increasingly persuades them that the customer is not influenced by the personality or name of the designer. Many in the industry predicted that Gucci would suffer after Tom Ford, its creative director, left. It did not.
 Ms. Philo, who started at Chloe in 1997 as Stella McCartney's assistant and was elevated to creative director in 2001, has a reputation for being extremely dedicated to the brand -- and eager that it connect with women. She lives in London and is married to Max Wigram, an art dealer. Shortly after the birth of their daughter last March, she talked to Mr. Toledano about wanting to spend more time with her family, and he opened a design studio for her in London. But apparently she has decided that juggling the demands of job and family was a balancing act she did not want to make.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Phoebe Philo effectively left the fashion house shortly after presenting her spring collection in October. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (95%); FASHION DESIGNERS (92%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RETAILERS (87%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); JEWELRY (78%); MATERNITY LEAVE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (70%); BRANDING (70%); FINE JEWELRY (67%); CHILDREN (51%) Apparel; Biographical Information; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

ORGANIZATION: Chloe (Co)

PERSON: Cathy Horyn; Phoebe Philo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



82 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; A Comeback for the Car Species; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: S.U.V.'s Stumbled and Sedans Gained as 2005 Focused on Fuel 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Last year will go down as the one when cars made a comeback and sport utilities stumbled.
 It will also be remembered as the year when Detroit's auto companies held their lowest market share, although Chrysler broke from its Motor City rivals and posted the only sales increase among the Big Three.
Sales by the major automakers, tallied Wednesday, reflected shifting consumer tastes and the effect of higher gasoline prices, which spiked above $3 a gallon in much of the country in the summer.
 For cars, long overshadowed by hefty pickups and powerful S.U.V.'s, the share of the American market climbed for the first time since 1992, according to figures from the automobile companies. Cars picked up about one percentage point, giving them 45.1 percent of the market, their largest share in two years. 
 S.U.V. sales fell to their lowest level since 1998. And big expensive S.U.V.'s that once commanded a premium, like the Lincoln Navigator, Cadillac Escalade and Toyota Land Cruiser, all posted double-digit sales declines in 2005.
 ''Cheap fuel in America is a thing of the past,'' said James Press, president for sales operations for Toyota in the United States. ''There's a lot more awareness of the impact of a gallon of gasoline.''
 Ron Pinelli, the president of Autodata, an industry analysis firm in Woodcliff Lake, N.J., said, ''I don't know if 2005 is the turning point for trucks, but it's some kind of milestone.'' 
 While no one is about to write off the S.U.V., analysts say the appeal has finally waned. ''Not unless the consumer really needs one are they going to buy one,'' Mr. Pinelli said. 
 The year ended on a sour note for the automakers, with sales falling 3.8 percent in what is usually a blow-out month. Full-year sales rose 0.8 percent, to 16.9 million vehicles, with that small gain aided by incentive wars that cost the carmakers $42 billion during the year, according to Edmunds.com, a Web site that offers car-buying advice.
 The decline in S.U.V. sales last year was bad news for Detroit. Together, General Motors, the Ford Motor Company and Chrysler, a unit of DaimlerChrysler, held 56.9 percent of the American market in 2005, down 1.8 percentage points from 2004, according to sales reports.
 In contrast, Toyota and Honda of Japan, BMW of Germany and Hyundai of South Korea all posted strong performances, helping import brands capture a record 43.1 percent market share in 2005.
 Sales at G.M., the largest American car company, fell 4.3 percent in 2005, while sales by Ford, the No. 2 player, dropped nearly 5 percent. A bright spot for G.M. was Chevrolet, which was the best-selling brand in America in 2005, topping Ford for the first time in 19 years.
 In November, G.M. announced a restructuring plan that included cutting 30,000 jobs and closing all or parts of 12 plants in the next three years. 
 G.M. is also banking on the stronger performance of a new lineup of S.U.V.'s, including the Chevrolet Tahoe, and is promoting the vehicles' technological features and improved fuel economy. 
 Jeremy Anwyl, the chief executive of Edmunds.com, said the Tahoe had a good chance to be a hit, as long as gasoline prices remained stable. 
 But he said G.M. had trained buyers to wait for big rebate plans, like the employee discount program it made available to customers last summer. The plan produced a spike in warm-weather sales that quickly diminished when the incentives were discontinued.
 ''You have to convince people that the price is real and that there isn't going to be a sale next week,'' Mr. Anwyl said. ''Whatever hand they've got to play, they're going to make it happen. And if they don't, they don't have anything left.''
 G.M. is not alone in banking on sport utilities. Chrysler has four new Jeep models set for 2006 and like G.M., it is emphasizing their improved fuel economy. 
 ''The cost of fuel matters,'' said Gary V. Dilts, Chrysler's senior vice president for sales.
 Chrysler's sales rose 4.5 percent last year, helped by the continued popularity of the 300C sedan. It is a favorite among rap musicians like Snoop Dogg, who appeared in Chrysler's ads along with its well-known former chief executive, Lee A. Iacocca.
 But Toyota, which is in a close race with G.M. to become the world's biggest maker of automobiles, did even better than Chrysler. Toyota's 2005 sales rose 10.1 percent. Its Lexus division was the best-selling luxury car company in the United States for the sixth consecutive year last year, while its Camry sedan remained the nation's best-selling car. 
 Toyota also sold 150,000 hybrid-electric vehicles, including its Prius sedan, which has a one-year waiting list, and two crossover vehicles, the Highlander and the Lexus 400H. Mr. Press said he expected Toyota's sales to rise another 4 percent to 5 percent in 2006, when the company has a ''product-rich strategy.'' 
 Later this year, Toyota will begin selling a big pickup truck built at its new plant in San Antonio. It also plans a new version of the Camry, including a hybrid model.
 Mr. Press said he was impressed with one Camry competitor, the Ford Fusion, which he said had broken ground in styling for midsize sedans, not generally known for their panache. The Fusion, on sale since fall, was a rare bright spot last year for Ford, which will announce its own restructuring plan on Jan. 23.
 Ford is expanding its lineup with more crossover vehicles and hybrid models. But like its Big Three rivals, Ford still depends heavily on sport utilities, which led to record profits in the 1990's before the market became flooded with offerings from other companies.
 On Wednesday, Ford's sales analyst, George Pipas, said he did not expect a rebound in S.U.V. sales this year, although he said, ''Even a dead cat bounces if you drop it from 10 floors up.''
 More seriously, he said that ''the best we can hope for is stable sales, and I would make that prediction only in the face of stable energy prices.'' 
 The increase in gasoline prices last year helped Honda, which posted a 5.2 percent sales increase in 2005, its ninth straight year of record sales. Nissan of Japan said it sold one million vehicles in the United States for the first time last year, achieving a goal set by its chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, in the turnaround plan he started in 1999.
 Hyundai said its sales rose 17.2 percent, its fifth consecutive record year. Likewise, BMW sold more than 300,000 vehicles in the United States last year for the first time. Its sales rose 4.1 percent, putting it second, behind Lexus, in luxury brands.
 Mr. Pinelli said the companies that consistently performed well this year, including Toyota, Honda, and Hyundai, all had diverse lineups able to carry them through the ups and downs of the market. ''The image is there; the substance is there; the value is there,'' he said.

 FORD -- Explorer
Dec. 2005 Sales: 18,996
Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: - 24.0

HONDA -- Pilot
Dec. 2005 Sales: 18,788
Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: + 17.7

BIGGEST GAINER: +155.0%
Hyundai Sonata

BIGGEST LOSER: -31.0%
Honda Accord

*Based on average daily sales adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month.

Sales for DaimlerChrysler include Mercedes; sales for Ford include Volvo and Land Rover; sales for General Motors include Saab.

(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. C6)

GRAPHIC: Chart: With higher gasoline prices and changing consumer tastes, cars became more popular again, climbing from their lowest market share in 25 years -- 44.3 percent in 2004 -- to 45.1 percent last year. Sales of smaller cars were brisk, while S.U.V.'s and larger luxury vehicles lost ground.INToyota CamryChrysler 300CHyundai SonataOUTFord ExplorerLincoln NavigatorCadillac EscaladeGraph tracks sales of Cars, Trucks, Pickups, Sport Utility Vehicles, Sport Wagons/Crossovers, Minivans and Large Vans since 1980.(Source by Autodata's MotorIntelligence.com)(pg. C1)Chart:How the Industry FaredDEC. 2004Cars: 652,095Light Trucks: 885,933Total: 1,538,028DEC. 2005Cars: 620,010Light Trucks: 859,477Total: 1,479,487CHANGECars: -4.9%Light Trucks: -3.0%Total: -3.8%ADJUSTED CHANGE*Cars: -4.9%Light Trucks: -3.0%Total: -3.8%ANNUAL SELLING RATE (millions)Cars: 7.64Light Trucks: 9.48Total: 17.12How Automakers FaredDAIMLERCHRYSLERDec. 2005 Sales: 220,641Adjusted Change*: - 2.3%Market Share: 14.9%FORDDec. 2005 Sales: 261,366Adjusted Change*: - 9.2Market Share: 17.7GENERAL MOTORSDec. 2005 Sales: 385,004Adjusted Change*: -10.3Market Share: 26.0HONDADec. 2005 Sales: 132,800Adjusted Change*: - 3.3Market Share: 9.0HYUNDAIDec. 2005 Sales: 43,021Adjusted Change*: +15.8Market Share: 2.9NISSANDec. 2005 Sales: 91,269Adjusted Change*: - 1.2Market Share: 6.2TOYOTADec. 2005 Sales: 203,279Adjusted Change*: + 8.2Market Share: 13.7Most Popular Cars and TrucksFORD -- Ford F seriesDec. 2005 Sales: 89,491Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: - 6.2%CHEVROLET -- SilveradoDec. 2005 Sales: 68,770Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: + 4.5TOYOTA -- CamryDec. 2005 Sales: 33,324Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: - 4.9DODGE -- RamDec. 2005 Sales: 30,978Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: - 8.3HONDA -- CivicDec. 2005 Sales: 26,971Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: Unch.HONDA -- AccordDec. 2005 Sales: 26,370Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: - 31.0TOYOTA -- CorollaDec. 2005 Sales: 25,276Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: - 4.3CHEVROLET -- TrailblazerDec. 2005 Sales: 23,736Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: - 8.2CHEVROLET -- ImpalaDec. 2005 Sales: 22,186Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: - 21.8JEEP -- Grand CherokeeDec. 2005 Sales: 21,732Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: + 6.6GMC -- SierraDec. 2005 Sales: 21,331Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: - 8.9HYUNDAI -- SonataDec. 2005 Sales: 20,853Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: +155.0DODGE -- CaravanDec. 2005 Sales: 19,039Change from Dec. 2004 Sales: - 23.7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SEDANS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Automobiles; Industry Profiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Consumer Behavior; International Trade and World Market; Automobiles; Records and Achievements; Sales

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Ford Motor Co; Honda Motor Co; Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; Hyundai Corp

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (78%) Japan; Germany; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



83 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Rotavirus Drugs Deemed Safe and Effective 

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
Two new vaccines against rotavirus, the leading known cause of deaths from diarrhea among infants around the world, have proved safe and effective in two of the largest clinical trials in the history of medicine.
 Studies of the two vaccines, one made by Merck and one by GlaxoSmithKline, are to be published today in The New England Journal of Medicine. Each trial enrolled more than 60,000 infants, in part to avoid the fate that befell the last licensed rotavirus vaccine, which was withdrawn seven years ago after it was blamed for dangerous bowel obstructions in 1 in 10,000 children.
 ''The results to date are very optimistic, very promising,'' said Dr. Samuel L. Katz, a professor of pediatrics at Duke University and former chairman of the federal Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. ''The real test will be in the global health arena, and if they are as safe and effective as they seem to be, they'll be remarkably helpful.'' 
 The two companies said they were taking their vaccines to rich and poor countries, but with different strategies: the Glaxo vaccine is already in use in Brazil, the Philippines and other developing countries, and it is close to licensing in Europe, but the company has not yet applied to sell it in the United States. The Merck vaccine may be available here as early as spring; then the company will seek licenses in Europe and in some poor countries. Merck and Glaxo say they are starting clinical trials in very poor countries in Africa and Asia. 
 Globally, rotavirus kills as many as 600,000 children a year -- about half as many as malaria kills -- and the World Health Organization has eagerly sought a vaccine.
 Nearly all children everywhere catch the virus by age 5, and most cases are mild. But severe cases can erupt into a combination of watery diarrhea and constant vomiting that leads to severe dehydration. Better diets and intravenous rehydration nearly always save children in the West, and only about 20 children a year die of rotavirus infections in the United States. But about 100,000 die of it in India each year, and 1,000 in Mexico.
 Even in the United States, the virus sends 55,000 infants to the hospital each year. Dr. Paul Offit, chief of infectious diseases at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and one of the developers of the Merck vaccine, said rotavirus symptoms were among the most common causes of admissions to his hospital in winter. He described an infant he knew of who had developed the virus overnight and collapsed into semi-consciousness the next day as her mother was stuck in a traffic jam trying to reach a suburban Philadelphia hospital. The child's veins were so shrunken that a surgeon had to be called to get an intravenous line into a neck vein. ''In Botswana, that child would have died,'' Dr. Offit said. 
 In 1999, Wyeth pulled its rotavirus vaccine, Rotashield, from the American market after it was blamed for very rare cases of intussusception, in which a section of the gut collapses into itself like a telescope. A child with it may begin screaming in pain and may develop persistent vomiting and produce black stools.
 A later National Institutes of Health study argued that Rotashield might not have been responsible -- intussusception can happen spontaneously for unknown reasons -- but by then the damage had been done. Once the vaccine was ruled unsafe for Americans, it was politically impossible to offer it in poor countries, even though it might have saved hundreds of thousands of lives while possibly being to blame for a handful of deaths.
 That history was responsible for creating such large clinical trials.
 Glaxo's vaccine, called Rotarix, and Merck's, called Rotateq, showed low intussusception rates and no difference between children who got the vaccine and those who got a placebo. 
 Also, both are oral vaccines using weakened live virus, like the polio vaccine used in poor countries. Such vaccines are easier to use than vaccines requiring needles and may give longer immunity.
 Glaxo tested its vaccine on children from poor and middle-income families in Latin America, while Merck's trial was conducted largely in wealthy countries, including the United States and Finland, though it included children in Jamaica and Mexico. The Glaxo vaccine prevented severe rotavirus disease in 85 percent of children while the Merck vaccine prevented it in 98 percent.
 But the two vaccines may be equally effective, said Dr. Roger I. Glass, a vaccine specialist at the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, who compared the studies. That is because the two defined ''severe'' slightly differently and because the two test populations were different -- the poorer children in the Glaxo trial were presumably more likely to be malnourished and to have other competing viruses in their intestines, he said.
 In what he called ''a particularly exciting finding of great importance to public health,'' both vaccines substantially reduced hospitalization for all diarrheas. That suggests that rotavirus may cause more illness than had been realized -- most diarrhea victims, even in the United States, are never tested to find the cause -- so a vaccine may do much more good than doctors had hoped.
 Each vaccine has advantages and disadvantages, specialists said.
 Glaxo's is made from a weakened human strain, and is delivered in two doses. Merck's is a bovine strain with bits of genetic material from five human ones. It takes three doses. As a result, the Glaxo vaccine will presumably be cheaper and easier for poor countries.
 Global prices are still being negotiated. Brazil offers the vaccine free to all children, so Glaxo sells to the Brazilian government for $15 for the two doses. It sells to the private sector in Mexico for $100 and expects to sell it in Europe for more than $100, Jean Stephenne, president of Glaxo's vaccine division, said. Prices are ''a function of the G.D.P. of different countries,'' he said, and higher for private doctors than to public clinics. If an agency like the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization that buys for poor countries puts in large enough orders, Mr. Stephenne said, it might get a price as low as or lower than Brazil's. 
 Dr. Glass of the disease control centers said the emergence of two effective vaccines was ''wonderful.''
 ''I've been working on rotavirus for 25 years,'' he said. ''Everyone gets excited about SARS or Ebola or Marburg, but they haven't killed half a million people in a decade, and this is a disease that kills half a million a year.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (93%); VIRUSES (91%); DRUG SAFETY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (87%); MALARIA (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PEDIATRICS (78%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (78%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%) Medicine and Health; Diarrhea; Vaccination and Immunization; Children and Youth; Rotaviruses

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (92%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (84%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%) New England Journal of Medicine; Merck & Co Inc; Glaxosmithkline

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (92%); MRK (NYSE) (92%); GSK (NYSE) (84%); GSK (LSE) (84%); BIOC (EGX) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: Donald G Jr Mcneil

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); INDIA (68%); PHILIPPINES (55%); BOTSWANA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



84 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: A Big Government Fix-It Plan for New Orleans

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La. 

 BODY:
Into the void of the post-Katrina policy landscape, littered with half-ruined proposals, crumbling prescriptions and washed-out initiatives, an obscure and very conservative congressman has stepped in with the ultimate big government solution.
 Representative Richard H. Baker, a Republican from suburban Baton Rouge who derides Democrats for not being sufficiently free-market, is the unlikely champion of a housing recovery plan that would make the federal government the biggest landowner in New Orleans -- for a while, at least. Mr. Baker's proposed Louisiana Recovery Corporation would spend as much as $80 billion to pay off lenders, restore public works, buy huge ruined chunks of the city, clean them up and then sell them back to developers.
Desperate for a big-scale fix to the region's huge real estate problem, Louisiana officials and business leaders of all stripes -- black and white, Republican and Democrat -- have embraced this little-known congressman and his grandiose plan, calling its passage crucial. While the White House has yet to sign on, there are already signs that some Congressional leaders are interested in pursuing it; Mr. Baker said administration officials had not rejected it outright. 
 The passage of the bill has become increasingly important to Louisiana because the state lost out to the greater political power of Mississippi last month when Congress passed a $29 billion aid package for the Gulf states region. The package gave Mississippi about five times as much per household in housing aid as Louisiana received -- a testimony to the clout of Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, a former Republican National Committee chairman, and Senator Thad Cochran, chairman of the Appropriations Committee.
 Louisiana officials say they were forced to go along with the appropriation, because they may not have received an aid package at all otherwise. But now they are focused even more intently on Mr. Baker's buyout bill; many economists here say there may be no alternative to buyouts for homeowners who cannot make mortgage payments on ruined properties. 
 ''It's probably one of the few last best hopes out there for people whose homes were flooded, and had no flood insurance,'' said Loren C. Scott, an emeritus economist at Louisiana State University. ''Without this kind of help, there's a very large number of people who are just sunk.'' 
 James A. Richardson, director of the university's Public Administration Institute, said, ''It's the only game in town, to a certain extent.'' 
 Mr. Baker's ideological opposite in the Louisiana Congressional delegation, William J. Jefferson, a New Orleans Democrat, said passage of the bill was important. 
 ''Without it,'' he said, ''homeowners have very little chance of realizing any of the equity they've lost.'' 
 Under his plan, the Louisiana Recovery Corporation would step in to prevent defaults, similar in general nature to the Resolution Trust Corporation set up by Congress in 1989 to bail out the savings and loan industry. It would offer to buy out homeowners, at no less than 60 percent of their equity before Hurricane Katrina. Lenders would be offered up to 60 percent of what they are owed. 
 To finance these expenditures, the government would sell bonds and pay them off in part with the proceeds from the sale of land to developers. 
 Property owners would not have to sell, but those who did would have an option to buy property back from the corporation. The federal corporation would have nothing to do with the redevelopment of the land; those plans would be drawn up by local authorities and developers. 
 To succeed, the proposal will eventually require the support of the White House. And the signals, according to this staunch Republican who boasts of near-perfect rankings from conservative groups, have been distinctly mixed. 
 President Bush, riding in a car with Mr. Baker on a trip here in late September, ''got it,'' Mr. Baker insisted in an interview at his office here, in the city he has unobtrusively represented in Washington for two decades. ''He was very open to it. He said, 'Work on it and get back to Hubbard,' '' referring to Mr. Bush's top economic adviser, Allan B. Hubbard. 
 With Congress set to adjourn last month and with the plan hanging in the balance, Mr. Baker received a visit on a Sunday morning from Donald E. Powell, the president's Gulf Coast recovery czar. Mr. Baker said Mr. Powell, was now ''more comfortable'' with the proposal, but was still not wholly convinced after an hour of discussion. The bill sank, despite a successful scramble to unite the disparate Louisiana delegation behind it and appeals from business leaders. Yet, with promises from senators to take up the bill quickly when Congress reconvenes and signs that the White House has not turned its back, the cautious Mr. Baker figures that his odds are better than even.
 Sean Reilly, a member of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, said Mr. Powell had told him the White House was ''on board'' with the concept, but needed to tweak the idea a bit.
 ''It came very close,'' said Walter Isaacson, vice chairman of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, established by the governor to oversee reconstruction. Top White House advisers ''basically like the principle,'' he said. And there were promises from them that ''we'll work with you, and we'll get it on the fast track'' for hearings in the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, Mr. Isaacson said. 
 Mr. Baker's fellow conservatives, in Congress and out, are worried about the huge scale of his proposed intervention. In the House Financial Services Committee, several members tried unsuccessfully to limit the proposal's spending and duration, or to require that it break even. ''It is irresponsible for Congress to write a blank check, drawn on the account of American taxpayers, bound only by the imagination of politicians,'' said Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas. ''We need to ensure that taxpayers are not asked again two or three years from now to pay for the same disaster.''
 Mr. Baker says to his critics: ''If not this, what? And the answers are not good.'' 
 A sobering early flyover of the ruined neighborhoods in New Orleans convinced him that ordinary solutions would not work. Here was a problem way beyond the capacity of private enterprise. ''In this case, everything's gone,'' Mr. Baker said. ''Total elimination. So I have argued that this does require a precedent-setting remedy. And if we don't do this, what do you foresee for the region two years from now?''
 Soft-spoken, mild-mannered and with the choirboy demeanor of a minister's son, Mr. Baker has spent years toiling in arcane financial-services regulation. With the calm of a man used to consorting with bankers and poring over balance sheets, he lays it all out: tens of thousands of strapped homeowners, owing millions in mortgage payments on properties of dubious value, to multiple lending institutions.
 His effort is filled with paradoxes. Mr. Baker has devoted much of his Congressional career to reining in the quasi-governmental lending giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, saying they have too much power. Now, ''as free market as I am,'' he said, he wants the government to take action in a way it never has before. 
 Another oddity is that Mr. Baker is so invisible, even in his own district, that ''most people in Baton Rouge wouldn't recognize him,'' said Wayne Parent, a political science professor at L.S.U. In a state that values flash in its politicians, ''You don't hear much said about him,'' Mr. Parent said. Yet, Mr. Bakerhas suddenly stepped to the forefront of a Louisiana political class that has been notably bereft of ideas. 
 He was elected from a mostly white, suburban district, one relatively prosperous by Louisiana standards and historically resentful of the once-larger city to the east. Yet, his initiative could wind up largely benefiting African-Americans in New Orleans. 
 In the House, his idea was embraced by liberals -- ''I think it's a good idea,'' said Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts -- and shunned by many conservatives. The proposal is about as ''good as you get,'' Mr. Isaacson said. ''My feeling is it's a test of how sincere the administration is in saying it wants a careful and smart rebuilding effort.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Representative Richard H. Baker, a conservative Republican from Louisiana, has proposed rebuilding homes in New Orleans through an $80 billion federal buyout. Right, tour buses began visiting areas damaged by Hurricane Katrina. (Photo by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Steve Helber/Associated Press)(pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HURRICANES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (84%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); BUDGETS (75%); POLITICS (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (55%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: THAD COCHRAN (79%); HALEY BARBOUR (78%); WILLIAM J JEFFERSON (58%) Adam Nossiter; Richard H (Rep) Baker; Haley (Gov) Barbour; Thad (Sen) Cochran

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana; Mississippi; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



85 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Crime and Consequences Still Weigh on Corporate World; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: Four Years Later, Enron's Shadow Lingers as Change Comes Slowly

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
America's corporate chieftains would prefer that Enron just go away.
 But four years after the company's ignominious collapse, Enron's former top executives are about to head to a climactic criminal trial later this month, serving as a reminder that changes in the behavior of many American companies have been more muted than many once expected.
Despite an array of new and expensive laws and regulations that were adopted to tighten corporate oversight after the wave of scandals earlier in the decade, serious accounting problems continue to trouble publicly owned companies. In the last year, a record number have been forced to correct erroneous earnings statements, which often led to sharp stock declines. 
 Moreover, for all the widespread criticism of high pay of executives at Enron and other companies that later proved derelict, studies show that there is still little overall correlation between the performance of many companies and the executive compensation set by their directors. 
 Meanwhile, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board -- the agency created by Congress three years ago to oversee the accounting profession after the collapse of Arthur Andersen for its role in the Enron debacle -- has yet to bring a significant enforcement action. It has filed only four disciplinary cases against tiny firms in Texas, New York and California.
 ''We certainly have seen some improvements in governance, but we've also seen some areas of no improvement, and some areas where things have gone backwards,'' said Lynn E. Turner, a former chief accountant at the Securities and Exchange Commission who is now the managing director of research at Glass, Lewis & Company.
 Christopher Cox, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said in an interview last week that a number of benefits have flowed from the laws adopted after the major corporate scandals that plagued companies like WorldCom, Tyco, Adelphia and Qwest, as well as Enron. But he agreed that more should be done. In the interview, he disclosed that he intended to lead a commission effort early in 2006 to rewrite the rules to force companies to provide more details about executive pay. 
 Despite a recent backlash by some corporate interests against the tighter rules, Mr. Cox said it ''would be a mistake'' to roll back the major provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Congressional response to the corporate scandals, which imposed new obligations on directors, accountants and lawyers. 
 ''The shocks were so big that no director could miss the lesson,'' Mr. Cox said. ''And if they did miss it somehow, the significant changes in law made it absolutely certain that they are now more focused.''
 ''With just a few years of Sarbanes-Oxley under their belts,'' he added, ''most companies are begrudgingly admitting that the exercise has produced benefits.''
 Still, Mr. Cox and some others have said, the changes have not come without significant cost. They have begun asking, as he put it, ''whether we are getting everything we're paying for.'' 
 Certainly there were fewer large corporate scandals in the last year. Surveys at large companies show that boards have more outside directors, and slightly better qualified audit committees.
 But the lack of major debacles lately is due as much to the current stage in the economic expansion -- which has not been going on long enough to encourage the financial excesses and inflated stock prices that often lead to trouble -- as to major changes in corporate governance. And the collapse of Refco three months ago showed how short the memories of previous scandals are at the boards of some companies.
 Alan G. Hevesi, who as New York comptroller is one of the nation's largest institutional investors, has been leading a group of other top state pension fund managers seeking to make companies more accountable to shareholders. 
 ''We've had some successes in corporate governance reform,'' he said, but ''in other areas -- such as giving a greater voice to shareholders to elect independent directors and curbing excessive executive compensation -- we haven't been as successful. I worry about whether the necessary reforms have really been institutionalized.''
 Corporate executives say audit committees generally have been spending more time going over problems. They also say that auditors have become more emboldened since the collapse of Enron and are less likely to be in the conflicting situation of serving as both consultant and auditor to the same company. Those changes have come about even though the accounting industry has become so consolidated that four large firms do the work for more than 90 percent of publicly traded companies.
 Yet problems remain.
 Earnings restatements, for instance, were more than 50 percent higher in 2005 than in the previous year. The restatements often involved plain-vanilla accounting issues, such as when to recognize earnings or properly calculate interest accruals. About a quarter of the restatements were related to a failure by companies to follow accounting rules issued more than 30 years ago on how to account for leases. 
 But the numbers still suggest there is more work to be done. Through the end of October, there were 1,031 restatements, compared with 650 for all of 2004 and only 270 in 2001, the year that Enron collapsed, according to figures compiled by Glass, Lewis. Mr. Turner said he expected that by the time all the restatements through the end of the year had been counted, the total number for 2005 would reach around 1,200. 
 The increasing number is partly attributable to the greater vigilance of auditors and the new requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which has prompted more than 1,250 public companies, out of a total of around 15,000, to report by the end of last October that they had material weaknesses in their internal controls. Another 232 companies reported deficiencies in their internal controls that were less serious, though significant.
 Some executives see a silver lining in the earnings restatements.
 ''I don't mean to sugarcoat the figure on restatements, but I think it is positive -- it shows a healthy system,'' said Steve Odland, the chief executive of Office Depot and head of a task force on corporate governance at the Business Roundtable, an organization of chief executives from the nation's largest companies.
 ''The general impression of the public is that accounting rules are black and white,'' Mr. Odland said. ''They are often anything but that, and in many instances the changes in earnings came after new interpretations by the chief accountant of the S.E.C.''
 For large investors, an even bigger concern is executive pay. Even as the scandals highlighted expensive compensation packages that prompted regulators to require stricter accounting of executive pay, surveys showed that large investors were particularly upset by underperforming companies that continued to provide outsize compensation to their top managers. 
 One study, by Lucian A. Bebchuk of Harvard and Yaniv Grinstein of Cornell, found that corporate assets used to compensate the top five executives at companies grew from less than 5 percent to more than 10 percent of aggregate corporate earnings between 1993 and 2003. The result was a large decline in company and portfolio values with no associated strengthening of management incentives. 
 A second study, by Mark Van Clieaf, managing director of MVC Associates International, a management consulting firm, and Janet Langford Kelly, a Northwestern University law professor, found that 60 companies in the bottom 10th of the Russell 3000 index lost $769 billion in market value and $475 billion in economic value in the five years through 2004. They paid their top five executives more than $12 billion over the same period. 
 ''The good news is we've seen more happen in the last 36 months than the last 30 years, as boards start to recognize they have a job to do that is not just ceremonial,'' Mr. Van Clieaf said. ''The bad news is they haven't always figured out exactly what that job should be.''
 In the case of executive compensation, ''there is a high level of denial on the performance problem,'' he added. ''In part it is because low performance reflects on the board.''
 Mr. Cox of the S.E.C. said that he expected the commission would begin proceedings early this year to change the disclosure rules so that executive compensation became more transparent.
 ''It's been over a dozen years since we've last revised these'' rules, Mr. Cox said. 
 Mr. Odland said the Business Roundtable had long advocated that boards do more to assure that the pay of senior executives is closely tied to company performance and that it is set by a compensation committee of independent board members.
 ''Shareholder value creation should be rewarded,'' he said.
 Under Sarbanes-Oxley, senior executives are required to certify income statements personally. Audit committees must include at least one person with expertise in financial matters. Companies can no longer give cheap loans to senior officials.
 Enron's collapse also spurred major accounting rule changes, including one requiring that stock options be counted as a normal business expense on company books.
 Some executives have complained that the mandated changes have come at too high a cost, and a growing movement to create new exemptions, at least for many smaller businesses, is gaining influence in Washington.
 Those complaints have had some resonance at the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Cox, who took over last August, has promised to maintain the policies of his predecessor, William H. Donaldson, and has moved cautiously in re-examining the regulations that were adopted after Sarbanes-Oxley. But he has suggested that changes may be warranted in some areas. 
 ''As we work together to protect investors and stimulate capital formation, we've got to be sure we don't choke on our own medicine,'' Mr. Cox said at a recent speech in Florida before the Securities Industry Association. ''We understand that regulation that's intended to improve the competitiveness of our markets can -- if we're not careful -- have the opposite effect.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher Cox became chairman of the S.E.C. last August. (Photo by Dennis Brack/Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
(Photos by Dylan Loeb McClain/The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart/Photos: ''After Enron, the Deluge''The fall of Enron was the first in a wave of corporate scandals that in some cases brought down some of the country's biggest companies and their executives. Companies in gray went bankrupt and were sold or liquidated.*EnronIts collapse revealed that much of its success had been built on sand. It is being liquidated.DEC. 2, 2001The company files for bankruptcy protection.JAN. 14, 2004Andrew S. Fastow, former chief financial officer, pleads guilty to two felonies.FEB. 19, 2004Jeffrey K. Skilling, a former chief executive, is indicted.JULY 7, 2004Kenneth L. Lay, former chairman and chief executive, is indicted.KEY FIGURESKenneth L. Lay (UNDER INDICTMENT)Jeffrey K. Skilling (UNDER INDICTMENT)Andrew S. Fastow (PLEADED GUILTY)*Global CrossingThe company, which spent billions of dollars building an international fiber optic network, is a shell of its former self.JAN. 28, 2002The company files for bankruptcy protection.AUG. 9, 2002Singapore Technologies Telemedia agrees to buy a majority stake in the company for $250 million.DEC. 8, 2003The company writes down its assets, creating more than $25 billion in losses for 2000 and 2001.MAR. 19, 2004The company and Gary Winnick, the founder, agree to pay investors and former employees $325 million for their losses.KEY FIGURESGary WinnickMr. Winnick, who made $734 million selling company stock, has not been charged with any wrongdoing.*Adelphia CommunicationsWent into bankruptcy and was sold to Time Warner and Comcast.MAY 2, 2002Adelphia restates its results to include more than $1 billion in loans to the family of John J. Rigas, the company's founder.JUNE 25, 2002The company files for bankruptcy protection.JULY 24, 2002Mr. Rigas and two of his sons, Timothy and Michael, are arrested and charged with looting the company.JULY 8, 2004Mr. Rigas and Timothy Rigas are convicted on some charges. The jury does not reach a verdict on charges against Michael Rigas.KEY FIGURESJohn J. Rigas (CONVICTED)Timothy J. Rigas (CONVICTED)Michael J. Rigas (UNDER INDICTMENT)*WorldComWent into bankruptcy and emerged much smaller. It was subsequently bought by Verizon.JUNE 25, 2002WorldCom discloses billions of dollars in accounting fraud.JULY 21, 2002The company files for bankruptcy.MARCH 2, 2004Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chief executive, is indicted. Scott D. Sullivan, former chief financial officer, pleads guilty.MARCH 15, 2005Mr. Ebbers is convicted. He is later sentenced to 25 years in prison.KEY FIGURESBernard J. Ebbers (CONVICTED)Scott D. Sullivan (PLEADED GUILTY)CendantBefore Enron and WorldCom, it had the largest accounting scandal.FEB. 28, 2001Three years after a huge accounting scandal is discovered at the company, Walter A. Forbes, the former chairman, and E. Kirk Shelton, the former vice chairman, are charged with fraud. Previously, three former executives, including the chief financial officer, pleaded guilty.JAN. 4, 2005Mr. Shelton is found guilty of conspiracy and fraud. The jury does not reach a verdict on Mr. Forbes.OCT. 17, 2005The retrial of Mr. Forbes begins.KEY FIGURESWalter A. Forbes (UNDER INDICTMENT)E. Kirk Shelton (CONVICTED)ImClone SystemsErbitux, a drug for treating colon cancer, is the company's only product so far.DEC. 27, 2001After learning that the F.D.A. has rejected an application to approve Erbitux, Samuel D. Waksal, the chief executive and chairman, tries to sell his company stock
 his daughter and his father sell their shares.OCT. 15, 2002Mr. Waksal pleads guilty. He is later sentenced to more than 7 years in prison.FEB. 12, 2004The F.D.A. approves the use of Erbitux.KEY FIGURESSamuel D. Waksal (PLEADED GUILTY)Martha Stewart Living OmnimediaThe company has lost money for the last seven quarters and its stock price is languishing.DEC. 27, 2001Martha Stewart, a friend of Mr. Waksal, sells 3,928 shares of ImClone.JUNE 4, 2003Ms. Stewart is indicted.MARCH 5, 2004Ms. Stewart is found guilty of lying to investigators.OCT. 8, 2004Ms. Stewart begins serving a five-month sentence.KEY FIGURESMartha Stewart (CONVICTED)Tyco InternationalSince the 2002 scandals involving its former top executives, the company has reported steady earnings.JUNE 3, 2002Facing an indictment for evading sales taxes, L. Dennis Kozlowski resigns as chairman and chief executive.SEPT. 12, 2002Mr. Kozlowski and Mark H. Swartz, the former chief financial officer, are charged with looting the company.APRIL 2, 2004The first trial of Mr. Kozlowski and Mr. Swartz ends in a mistrial.JUNE 17, 2005Mr. Kozlowski and Mr. Swartz are convicted.KEY FIGURESL. Dennis Kozlowski (CONVICTED)Mark H. Swartz (CONVICTED)QwestThe company is the weakest of the former Baby Bells and was recently spurned by MCI, formerly WorldCom, in favor of Verizon in a takeover battle.JUNE 16, 2002Joseph P. Nacchio, the chairman and chief executive, is forced to resign.JULY 28, 2002The company says that it incorrectly accounted for more than $1 billion in transactions from 1999 to 2001.OCT. 28, 2002The company says it will write down the value of its assets by $34.8 billion.DEC. 20, 2005Mr. Nacchio is charged with insider trading.KEY FIGURESJoseph P. Nacchio (UNDER INDICTMENT)Rite AidThe company restated earnings downward by $1.6 billion and its stock price, once over $50 a share, closed at $3.48 yesterday.JUNE 21, 2002Martin L. Grass, former chairman and chief executive, and Franklin C. Brown, former vice chairman, are charged with conspiracy and fraud.JUNE 17, 2003Mr. Grass pleads guilty to conspiracy and obstruction of justice. He is sentenced to 8 years in prison.OCT. 17, 2003Mr. Brown is found guilty of conspiracy, witness tampering and other acts. He is sentenced to 10 years in prison.KEY FIGURESMartin L. Grass (PLEADED GUILTY)Franklin C. Brown (CONVICTED)Computer AssociatesThe company restated sales figures for 1999 and 2000 and recorded large losses.NOV. 18, 2002With regulators looking into the company's accounting, Charles B. Wang, the founder and chairman, resigns and is succeeded by Sanjay Kumar.APRIL 8, 2004Ira H. Zar, the former chief financial officer, and two other executives plead guilty to fraud.APRIL 21, 2004Mr. Kumar resigns. Five days later, the company restates sales for 1999 and 2000.SEPT. 22, 2004Mr. Kumar and another executive are indicted.KEY FIGURESSanjay Kumar (UNDER INDICTMENT)Ira H. Zar (PLEADED GUILTY)Credit Suisse First BostonThe firm paid $100 million to settle charges that it mishandled the allocation of popular stock offerings in the 1990's bull market.MARCH 4, 2003Frank P. Quattrone, an investment banker, resigns after refusing to cooperate in an investigation of how technology stocks were allocated to investors.MAY 12, 2003Mr. Quattrone is charged with obstruction of justice.MAY 3, 2004Mr. Quattrone is convicted of obstruction.SEPT. 8, 2004Mr. Quattrone is sentenced to 18 months in prison.KEY FIGURESFrank P. Quattrone (CONVICTED)HealthSouthAfter discovering a huge accounting fraud, the company restated its results through 2004.MARCH 19, 2003The company and Richard M. Scrushy, the chief executive and founder, are charged with fraud.MARCH 26, 2003William T. Owens, a former chief financial officer, pleads guilty to fraud. He is one of 15 executives to eventually plead guilty.NOV. 4, 2003Mr. Scrushy is indicted.JUNE 28, 2005Mr. Scrushy is acquitted.OCT. 26, 2005Mr. Scrushy is charged with bribery and fraud.KEY FIGURESRichard M. Scrushy (UNDER INDICTMENT)William T. Owens (PLEADED GUILTY)Hollinger InternationalAfter problems surfaced at the company, some of its assets, including The Jerusalem Post, were sold.NOV. 17, 2003Conrad M. Black, the chairman and chief executive, resigns after the company finds that he and his partners received unauthorized payments.SEPT. 20, 2005F. David Radler, a partner of Lord Black, pleads guilty to fraud.NOV. 17, 2005Lord Black is charged with fraud.KEY FIGURESConrad M. Black (UNDER INDICTMENT)F. David Radler (PLEADED GUILTY)* Went bankrupt and were sold or liquidated.(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (93%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (89%); SCANDALS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); ETHICS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (72%); DEREGULATION (72%) Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Law and Legislation; Frauds and Swindling; Securities and Commodities Violations; Accounting and Accountants; Records and Achievements; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%) Securities and Exchange Commission; Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; Enron Corp

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER COX (89%); MARTHA STEWART (74%) Stephen Labaton; Christopher (Chmn) Cox; Kenneth L Lay; Jeffrey K Skilling

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



86 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: No More Second-Term Blues

BYLINE: By James MacGregor Burns and Susan Dunn. 
James MacGregor Burns and Susan Dunn teach at Williams College and are the authors of ''George Washington'' and ''The Three Roosevelts: Patrician Leaders Who Transformed America.''

DATELINE: Williamstown, Mass. 

 BODY:
AS George W. Bush's leadership flounders a little more than a year after his re-election, we are seeing a return of an old affliction in American politics, ''second termitis.'' The protracted woes of Richard Nixon's Watergate, Ronald Reagan's Iran-contra affair, and Bill Clinton's impeachment were all, in part, manifestations of that malady. 
 Is there some human failing that affects second-term presidents, like arrogance or sheer fatigue? To some degree, perhaps. But the main problem is not personal but institutional -- or rather constitutional, as embodied by the 22nd Amendment limiting presidential tenure. 
A second-term president will, in effect, automatically be fired within four years. Inevitably his influence over Congress, and even his authority over the sprawling executive branch, weaken. His party leadership frays as presidential hopefuls carve out their own constituencies for the next election. Whether the president is trying to tamp down scandal or push legislation, he loses his ability to set the agenda. 
 But whether or not a president has a diminished second term, the amendment barring a third term presents the broader and more serious question of his accountability to the people. 
 While political commentators analyze every twist in White House politics, while citizens follow dramatic stories of leaks, investigations and indictments, the one person who does not have to care is George W. Bush. In a sense, he has transcended the risks and rewards of American politics. He will not run again for office. The voters will not be able to thank him -- or dump him. 
 And yet accountability to the people is at the heart of a democratic system. 
 There was nothing in the original Constitution of 1787 that barred a third or fourth term for presidents. That was why Franklin Delano Roosevelt could run again in 1940 and 1944, becoming the only president to serve more than two terms. And that was why, three years later, in 1947, after sporadic public debate, Republicans demanded presidential term limits and changed the Constitution. 
 With majorities in both chambers of Congress, Republicans, joined by Southern Democrats opposed to the New Deal, were able to push the 22nd Amendment through the House (after only two hours of debate!) and the Senate (after five days of debate). At the time, an amendment limiting presidents to two terms in office seemed an effective way to invalidate Roosevelt's legacy, to discredit this most progressive of presidents. In the House, one of the few Northern Democrats to vote with the majority was freshman representative John F. Kennedy, whose father had fallen out with Roosevelt. In the spring of 1947, as the historian David Kyvig noted, 18 state legislatures rushed to ratify the amendment, with virtually no public participation in the debate. By 1951, the required three-fourths of the state legislatures had ratified it. 
 While George Washington limited himself to two terms, it had never been his intention to create a precedent. Washington didn't want to die in office and have the succession appear ''monarchical.'' But his primary reason for retiring was simply that after a lifetime of public service, he was bone-tired, desperate to return to the tranquillity of Mount Vernon. 
 Washington's close confidant Alexander Hamilton also had firmly opposed presidential term limits. In Federalist No. 72, Hamilton argued that term limits for the chief executive would diminish inducements to good behavior, discourage presidents from undertaking bold new projects, deny the nation the advantage of his experience and threaten political stability. For his part, Washington added that term limits would exclude from the presidency a man whose leadership might be essential in a time of emergency. 
 Should presidents -- whether George W. Bush, Ronald Reagan or Bill Clinton -- be denied the opportunity to serve their country and carry through their programs? Should they be allowed to govern without any accountability to voters? Should voters be denied two supreme powers -- the right to give popular presidents more terms in office and to repudiate a failed president at the polls? ''We ought to take a serious look and see if we haven't interfered with the democratic rights of the people,'' Ronald Reagan said in 1986. 
 Some defenders of the 22nd Amendment might argue that an incumbent second-term president would have an even more formidable and undeserved advantage in recognition, experience and the prestige of his office today than in the 1940's. But the power of incumbency may actually decrease with time. After his landslide victory for a second term in 1936, Roosevelt saw his popular vote drop in 1940 and even more in 1944. 
 And what about an unfair head start in campaign fund-raising? Presidential incumbents already have a significant advantage, but not necessarily an overwhelming one, especially with campaign finance reform. In a democratic republic, only the Constitution should trump the will of the majority, not the economic vicissitudes of the campaign trail. 
 Since 1956, many bipartisan resolutions to repeal the 22nd Amendment have been submitted to Congress -- and gone nowhere. The most recent one to be buried in a subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee was proposed last February. Oddly, both the current chairman of that committee, F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin, and the former chairman, Henry J. Hyde of Illinois, both Republicans, have in the past co-sponsored resolutions to repeal the amendment. 
 Hasn't the time come for Congress and the voters to revoke an authoritarian, barely considered amendment? Republicans, who revere ''original intent'' in interpreting the Constitution and who applaud the rise of the conservative movement, should welcome the possibility of a three- or four-term Republican president, thus avoiding ''second termitis.'' 
 And Democrats, as they contemplate the century that lies ahead, can hope that in another world crisis, this misbegotten amendment will not be there to bar a future Franklin Roosevelt from offering the kind of leadership that he provided in the 1940's. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tim Lane)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); INDICTMENTS (65%) Presidential Elections (US); Term Limits (Political Office); Constitutional Amendments

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) James Macgregor Burns; Susan Dunn; George (1732-99) Washington

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



87 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Envoys Say Gas Crisis Hurt West's Relations With Russia

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
After a year of increasingly troubled relations with Russia, American and European diplomats said Wednesday that President Vladimir V. Putin's decision to withhold natural gas from Ukraine's pipelines had further undercut the West's faith in his government's reliability and raised doubts about his ability to lead the Group of 8 industrial nations this year.
 The diplomats also said the settlement of the dispute between Russia and Ukraine over natural gas prices was a step forward, but said at least some of its elements were worrisome, particularly that it named a Russian company of uncertain ownership as an intermediary in the selling of natural gas to Ukraine. 
Even so, a senior State Department official said the United States would keep trying to work with Russia on several issues, especially those involving Iran's nuclear programs, without hesitating to criticize Mr. Putin's government for tightening its control over business and the political world.
 ''The challenge in Russian relations is not to find ways to be hostile to Russia,'' the official said. ''The challenge is how to work with the Russians in areas where we have overlapping or common interests, and be prepared to push back in some areas where the Russians are not behaving well.''
 The Bush administration did ''push back'' on the dispute with Ukraine, this official said -- first in private, with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice sending a message to the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, shortly before New Year's, warning against any provocative actions. 
 Then Russia interrupted natural gas shipments to Ukraine, prompting a public criticism by the State Department on New Year's day. Nonetheless, it was a deliberately low key response, so as not to antagonize Russia and jeopardize other areas of cooperation, notably on Iran, combating terrorism and seeking political solutions in the Balkans, the official said. He spoke on condition of anonymity ''because we're trying to keep the U.S. profile lower on this.''
 Last year, Ms. Rice specifically asked for Russia to ease restrictions on foreign investment in oil and gas, asserting that Russia was underperforming as an energy producer at a time of rising oil prices.
 The United States has also criticized Russia for its handling of the prosecution of a leading political dissident, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the founder of an oil company and once Russia's richest man. Mr. Khodorkovsky is now in a penal colony in Siberia after his conviction on corruption and tax evasion charges.
 More recently, Ms. Rice has raised concerns about Russia's steps to restrict activities of nongovernmental organizations seeking political change.
 American and European officials say they are prepared for a possibly bumpy year now that Russia has assumed the presidency of the Group of 8. Russia was invited to join this group in the 1990's. Mr. Putin has said he wants to make energy security a major priority at the summit meeting this summer in Russia.
 ''Let's say that the Russians are not cutting a very splendid figure as G-8 president, precipitating an energy crisis in Europe the first day of their presidency,'' the State Department official said.
 Similarly, a European diplomat said the gas uproar had brought a ''revelation'' about Russia just as it took on the Group of 8 presidency, a job rotated each year.
 ''On the same day that it became the chair of the most important club of nations in the world, Russia imposed a blockade of gas to a neighbor,'' said the diplomat, who was not authorized to speak for attribution. 
 American officials say they are still hopeful that Russia will play a constructive role in resolving the confrontation with Iran over its suspected nuclear weapons program. The United States wants to penalize Iran by getting the International Atomic Energy Agency to refer its conduct to the United Nations Security Council.
 So far, Russia has balked at such a step, advancing its own compromise proposal for Iran to invest in a uranium enrichment operation on Russian soil. Iran says its uranium activities are peaceful, but the West says they are a cover for a weapons program.
 Asked if Russia will eventually support referring Iran to the Security Council, the State Department official said: ''It could be. The possibility that they will be with us is strong enough that we should be prepared to work with the Russians.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (64%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (64%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (62%); TRENDS (61%); TAX FRAUD (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%); CORRUPTION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (50%) United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights; Economic Conditions and Trends; Gas (Fuel); Pipelines; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%) Group of Eight

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%) Steven R Weisman; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Mikhail B Khodorkovsky

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); UKRAINE (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) Russia; Europe; Ukraine; Russia

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



88 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Speculators Turn Away From China, Making Revaluation Less Pressing

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
After several years of pouring huge amounts of money into China, speculators have abruptly stopped doing so, reducing somewhat the pressure for the Chinese to revalue their currency and helping to bring inflation down surprisingly sharply.
 The weakening of attention toward China by international real estate investors and especially by currency traders, economists said, is making it harder for the Bush administration to push the authorities in Beijing to allow their currency, the yuan, to rise against the dollar.
Hundreds of billions of dollars have flowed into China in recent years, driving the country's total reserves beyond Japan's, to $860 billion. But this fall, only half as much money flowed into China as a year earlier. 
 Investors in the once red-hot Shanghai property market are walking away, and currency speculators who had bet that China would sharply strengthen the yuan have pulled back as it became clear that the authorities favor a slow approach to currency appreciation. 
 The flow of money has diminished even with the rise in the Chinese trade surplus, which has tripled in the last year to the irritation of politicians and business executives from Washington to Brussels to Tokyo. They want Chinese officials to let the yuan rise faster to make the country's exports more expensive in foreign markets. 
 In July, authorities revalued the yuan only slightly after trading partners complained that its link to the dollar kept exports cheaper than they would otherwise be. That, combined with very low interest rates, damped investment enthusiasm.
 The slowing of speculative investments ''takes the pressure off'' Chinese authorities to allow appreciation, said William Belchere, chief Asia economist at Macquarie Securities here.
 The reduced speculation has brought measurable advantages as well: inflation has almost disappeared, even as the economy grew at a 9.8 percent rate last year. Economists attribute this in part to dwindling amounts of speculative money sloshing around the economy. 
 China has also enjoyed excellent harvests, and there has been so much investment in new factories that a recent government report estimated that three-quarters of all categories of manufactured goods suffered from oversupply.
 ''There's no pricing capacity for anything,'' said Jing Ulrich, a J. P. Morgan economist here. ''Food prices are falling,'' she said, and those for manufactured goods ''are seeing stagnation at best.''
 The trends of lackluster interest in buying yuan and weak prices in China were especially evident on Wednesday.
 The government allowed 13 banking companies, including HSBC and Citigroup, to begin trading yuan directly with each other, using a tightly regulated over-the-counter market. In the past, all currency dealings had to be made with a government agency. But traders said that while the volume was somewhat greater on Wednesday than was typical in recent weeks, it still amounted to no more than $5 billion as the yuan inched up three-hundredths of 1 percent, to 8.0676 to the dollar. [The yuan gained a little more in New York, settling at 8.0670.]
 In the latest of a series of price cuts by auto manufacturers in China, Shanghai General Motors, a joint venture of G.M. and the Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation, announced before the start of trading that it had reduced prices for various versions of its Buick Regal and Chevrolet Epica 7.7 percent to 10.5 percent. Hua Xue, chief executive of a Chinese automotive Web site, said this made it likely that car prices would fall 5 percent this year, matching their fall in 2005.
 Prices are dropping not just for cars, but also for luxury apartments in Shanghai. Developers who used to be able to sell apartments before they were even built have begun offering discounts on units vacant for months, and are said to have offered free cars to close some sales.
 As economists trickle back to work this week, what has particularly caught their eye in China's economic statistics was an announcement over the holidays that the nation's foreign reserves rose $9.3 billion in November, less than a third of the increase a year earlier. 
 Foreign reserves are the best indication of money flowing in and out. The Beijing authorities try to maintain a stable value for the yuan against the dollar, printing and issuing yuan as needed to reflect the dollars coming into the country. The issuing of yuan prevents an excess of dollars from circulating in China and declining in value.
 The authorities issued so many yuan to sop up speculative inflows early in 2004 that this, combined with a poor harvest the autumn before, pushed annual consumer inflation to a peak of 4.9 percent in July 2004.
 But stringent measures to limit overheating of the economy and the slump in speculative investment helped bring inflation down to an annual rate of 1.3 percent in November. The government has also tempered increases in gasoline and diesel fuel prices. 
 On July 21, China broke its decade-long link of the yuan to the dollar with a 2 percent revaluation and said it would value the yuan in terms of a broad basket of currencies. Yet the yuan has climbed just 0.5 percent against the dollar since then, although more sharply against other currencies.
 The central bank said late Tuesday that it wanted to keep the yuan's exchange rate ''basically stable at an adaptive and equilibrium level.'' It added that big fluctuations ''will adversely affect China's economic and financial stability and undermine China's fundamental interests.''
 Qu Hongbin, a senior economist at HSBC, said speculators had expressed disappointment that China did not let the yuan rise more in July and was keeping short-term interest rates at half the levels in the United States. Speculative inflows have virtually disappeared as a result.
 The November figure for reserves was somewhat distorted because China sold $6 billion worth on Nov. 25 to commercial banks under a swap agreement that required the return of the reserves 12 months later. But even excluding the swap agreement, Chinese foreign reserves would still have increased at the same pace as in September and October and much slower than over the summer.
 Moreover, growth in China's foreign reserves tends to be highly seasonal and in previous years was fastest in the autumn, when investors conclude deals begun earlier in the year. Last year, though, growth in reserves was weakest in autumn.
 The increase in November was roughly equal to the sum of China's $10.5 billion trade surplus that month and the $4.7 billion that entered the country in government-approved foreign direct investments. While there are other components to the balance of payments, like workers' remittances, the rough match of the increase in reserves with the trade surplus and foreign direct investments suggested to economists that speculative investments, recently running at close to $20 billion a month, had largely evaporated.
 Slower growth in currency reserves has prompted the government to slow somewhat the pace at which it recycles the money by buying United States Treasury debt -- purchases that finance American budget and trade deficits. But economists said that because many speculators had switched from investing in China to buying short-term Treasuries to profit from rising American interest rates, this may not have much effect on the United States.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Slower Rise in Huge Reserves''China's foreign currency holdings have been growing less quickly in recent months, even as its trade surpluses ballooned. Fewer speculative investments appear to be going into China.Graph tracks change in foreign reserves* and monthly trade surplus since 2004.The difference between the monthly trade balance and the change in foreign reserves is mainly foreign direct investment and speculative money.*Includes reserves shifted to special accounts in Dec. '03 ($45 billion) and April '05 ($15 billion) and $6 billion in reserves sold for yuan in Nov. '05.(Source by CEIC Data Co.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TRENDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); FOOD PRICES (72%); EXPORT PRICES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%) 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



89 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Thursday Styles; On The Street: Then; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: To Brave the Cold, Hefty Furs -- December 10, 1989

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
IN some years lucky New Yorkers might have funneled their year-end bonus into a deposit on a condo or a cruise on the Nile. But in the final weeks of 1989, Wall Street high rollers and others with an equally extravagant eye displayed this wealth on their backs. 
 True, a recession loomed, but who would have known it? In that last great era of opulence, Manhattanites strolled along Fifth or Madison Avenues looking like chic extras in a Shackleton documentary. Swathed from crown to instep in a surfeit of sable, fox or lynx, they struggled to balance the heft of their furs, which is a look better served by sturdy boots, with ballet flats and pumps.
Never mind that their forays into the cold were as daunting as a run to the freezer at Dean & DeLuca. Their coats were as supple as duvets and as enveloping as tents -- high-style insulation against the stiffest Antarctic blast. RUTH LA FERLA


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by BILL CUNNINGHAM/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: Fur

PERSON: Bill Cunningham; Ruth La Ferla

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); ANTARCTICA (54%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



90 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: Demand for Jets Bolsters U.S. Factories 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Orders to United States factories posted the biggest gain in three months in November, with the strength concentrated in commercial aircraft. 
 The Commerce Department reported Wednesday that orders to factories rose 2.5 percent in November, to a record high of $407.7 billion. It was the biggest percentage gain since a 2.9 percent rise in August and followed a 1.7 percent increase in October.
 The report was heavily influenced by demand for commercial aircraft, which shot up 134.3 percent. 
 Outside of all transportation categories, orders were essentially unchanged, the fourth month out of the last five that this broad category had either fallen or shown no growth.
 Economists are expecting a slowdown in manufacturing growth in coming months as companies catch up on an order backlog caused by the Gulf Coast hurricanes.
 On Tuesday, the Institute for Supply Management's closely watched gauge of manufacturing activity came in at an unexpectedly weak 54.2 for December. It was the lowest reading in seven months, indicating that manufacturing activity was slowing as 2005 drew to a close.
 But analysts said they were still looking for manufacturing to be a source of strength in the new year as companies increase orders for the equipment they needed to expand and modernize their plants.
 The 2.5 percent rise in factory orders in November reflected a 4.4 percent jump in demand for durable goods, the best showing in six months and the same as a preliminary estimate made on Dec. 23. 
 Orders for nondurable goods, items such as petroleum, clothing and food, rose by 0.4 percent after a 0.1 percent gain in October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WEATHER (72%) 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



91 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Markets Rise, but Modestly, On Mixed Economic Data

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks rose moderately yesterday as investors digested Tuesday's gains, which followed the Federal Reserve's signal that it might be nearing the end of its streak of short-term interest rate increases. 
 Tuesday's rally ''seemed to take people by surprise,'' said Richard E. Cripps, chief market strategist for Legg Mason of Baltimore.
 Retail sales reports, rising oil prices and mixed economic news restricted the day's gains. 
 ''The last week of the year is coming in pretty lame'' for retailers, said Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago. A third month of disappointing sales from American automakers added to the sense that consumer spending might be slowing. 
 Crude oil futures crossed $63 a barrel, further cooling investor enthusiasm. A barrel of light sweet crude settled at $63.42, up 28 cents, in trading in New York. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 32.74 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,880.15. 
 Broader stock indicators were higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.66 points, or 0.37 percent, to 1,273.46. The gain was enough to send the index to a four-and-a-half-year high. The Nasdaq composite index rose 19.72 points, or 0.88 percent, to 2,263.46, reflecting a $10.01 jump in Google after Bear Stearns upgraded the stock. 
 The price of Treasury securities also rose. By late yesterday, the price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 6/32, to 101 8/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.34 percent, from 4.37 percent. The dollar was lower against other major currencies. Gold prices were higher. 
 Investors remain uncertain about the transfer of power at the Federal Reserve, as Alan Greenspan retires and Ben S. Bernanke takes his place. 
 ''It's like we're all waiting for something to start,'' said Frank Gannon, senior equity portfolio manager at AIG SunAmerica Mutual Funds. 
 The day's scant economic news was mixed. While November orders to factories posted their biggest gain in three months, the increase came entirely from higher demand for commercial aircraft. Without transportation, orders were essentially unchanged, the fourth month of the last five that this broad category of the economy's health has either fallen or shown no growth. 
 Traders are quietly cheering for a minor economic slowdown to elicit a quicker end to the Federal Reserve's interest rate increases. The Fed has raised short-term interest rates 13 consecutive times in a year and a half. 
 Upgrades helped Exxon Mobil and Google. Banc of America upgraded Exxon Mobil to buy from neutral. Exxon Mobil rose 10 cents, to $58.57. Bear Stearns raised Google to outperform from peer perform and put a price target of $550 on the stock. Google rose $10.01, to $445.24. 
 Ford Motor rose 18 cents, to $8.01, after it said it would announce details of its reorganization plan, including job cuts and plant closures, on Jan. 23. Ford's plan has been the subject of speculation since its chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr., said this fall that the automaker was working on its second major North American revamping in four years. Under the first plan, introduced in January 2002, Ford cut 35,000 jobs and closed five plants. 
 The insurer Aetna said John W. Rowe would step down as chief executive next month; the company named its president, Ronald A. Williams, to succeed him. Aetna rose 36 cents, to $94.42. 
 Estee Lauder, the cosmetics maker, rose $1.66, to $35, as it was added to the S.& P. 500 index. 
 Boyd Gaming fell $2.31, to $46.09, after it said it planned to tear down the old Stardust casino and build a $4 billion hotel and casino complex on 63 acres of the Las Vegas Strip.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.691
High Rate: 3.965
Coupon Yield: 4.033
Low Rate: 3.910
Median Rate: 3.950
Total applied for: $33,689,145
Accepted: $11,756,645
Noncompetitive: $166,440

The four-week bills mature Feb. 02, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); FUTURES (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); ENERGY MARKETS (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); AUTOMAKERS (54%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (83%); LEGG MASON INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); GOOGLE INC (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%)

TICKER: LM (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); XOM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



92 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: With Tributes, Hugs for Supporters and a Few Tears, Quinn Takes the Reins of the Council

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Her future assured after months of backroom dealings, Councilwoman Christine C. Quinn reveled yesterday in lavish public tributes from her colleagues as she was officially elected the new speaker of the City Council.
 Ms. Quinn, 39, received a standing ovation as she entered the ornate legislative chamber on the second floor of City Hall shortly after noon. Wearing a wide smile as she made her way through the crowd, she hugged and kissed Council members, lobbyists and the Democratic party leaders who provided crucial support in assuring her election.
Ms. Quinn is the first woman -- and the first openly gay member -- to become speaker since the position was created by the 1989 revisions to the City Charter. She succeeds Gifford Miller, who was forced to leave the Council last month because of term limits. Mr. Miller, who ran unsuccessfully for mayor last year, was traveling in Mexico yesterday. 
 Once the opening fanfare was out of the way, Councilman Joel Rivera of the Bronx stood up to nominate Ms. Quinn for speaker, commending her as a beloved colleague, tireless advocate of community causes and trailblazer for women. 
 Two other members seconded Ms. Quinn's nomination, and then she was ushered in as speaker with a chorus of yeas. The sole note of discord was voiced by Councilman Charles Barron, of Brooklyn, who abstained after declaring that the selection process for the speaker -- though not Ms. Quinn herself, as he was quick to make clear -- ''stinks.''
 ''Council members, I want to challenge you to be independent,'' Mr. Barron said. ''Be free from giving your vote to a county leader, a union, a business leader, or any other outside force trying to control you.''
 Ms. Quinn emerged as the likely speaker earlier this week after Democratic leaders in Queens, the Bronx and Brooklyn, agreed to support her over her closest rival, Councilman Bill de Blasio of Brooklyn. Yesterday, those leaders sat prominently in the front row, and at one point, Ms. Quinn went over to hug them.
 In her acceptance speech, she sketched out a wide-ranging legislative agenda that would seek to improve the city's middle schools and public hospitals, address the shortage of low-cost housing, and remove illegal guns from the city's streets -- something that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has also made a priority in his second term.
 ''To accomplish these goals, the City Council must become an incubator of big ideas, the creator of innovative policies that help people across the economic spectrum, and across the city,'' she said.
 Ms. Quinn also pledged to work closely with Mr. Bloomberg, adding that she hoped ''we can agree more often than we disagree.'' 
 Ms. Quinn, brushing away tears, ended by saying that she was proud of a city where diversity was seen as a strength, not a weakness. She recounted how her father, Lawrence Quinn, had watched as a television news reporter described Ms. Quinn as the first woman speaker, and first openly gay one.
 ''Without missing a beat, my father stuck out his chest and proudly yelled at the TV, 'You forgot Irish, you bum!' '' Ms. Quinn said.
 Even the Republican minority leader, Councilman James S. Oddo of Staten Island, had nothing but nice words for his counterpart across the aisle. He said that he saw Ms. Quinn as a friend rather than an adversary.
 ''We have learned to disagree without being disagreeable,'' Mr. Oddo said of the Council. ''Anger is one thing, enmity is another. And the only time enmity is acceptable in this house is when it's directed at the Department of Buildings.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: In her first address as the new speaker of the City Council, Christine C. Quinn told her colleagues yesterday that she hoped to accomplish many goals, including improving middle schools and the city's public hospitals. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (89%); TERM LIMITS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); COUNTIES (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); HOSPITALS (50%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (50%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (50%) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%) Winnie Hu; Christine C (Councilwoman) Quinn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



93 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Stresses Tax Cuts in Address Reprising Early Themes 

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Michael Cooper contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
In his final State of the State address, Gov. George E. Pataki tried Wednesday to recapture part of the formula that got him elected nearly a dozen years ago, offering a wide array of tax cuts, crime-fighting strategies and environmental measures.
 Specifically, the governor called for eliminating the so-called marriage penalty in the tax code, cutting state income tax rates, ending the state's estate tax and providing property tax rebates. The proposals come a day after the governor said the state was projected to have a $2 billion surplus in a total budget of $106.7 billion.
''We've proven time and again how tax cuts create the financial freedom that yields even greater opportunities for New York citizens,'' Mr. Pataki said, in an address that lasted just shy of an hour and ran for about 6,600 words.
 But if his 12th address to open the legislative season appeared intended for a broad audience as he ponders a run for the presidency, it lacked the teeth of the speeches of his early years, and their more conservative appeals to fiscal austerity. Even the reform-minded message of his speech a year ago was largely absent, even though many of his previous proposals remain undone, including campaign finance reform. 
 Instead of spending cuts, there were more potentially costly undertakings, focused largely on the environment and education. His proposals to reduce dependence on foreign oil included putting alternative fuels at service stations along the New York State Thruway and providing incentives to bring ethanol refineries to the state. He said he would seek free tuition for public university students who pursue math and science degrees and also agree to teach in the state. 
 But his failure to address a legal battle over school financing in the speech drew criticism, even within his own party. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a Republican, standing with his schools chancellor, Joel I. Klein, said after the speech that he would rather see the state's budget surplus used to begin complying with a court order requiring the state to spend billions of dollars more on the city's public schools. The Pataki administration is appealing that order. 
 ''I think lower taxes would stimulate the economy, but first and foremost for New York City, we need monies that the state, the courts say, owe us,'' the mayor said.
 Details of what the governor's proposals would cost the state will have to wait until Mr. Pataki proposes his budget later this month. While a surplus is expected for this year, the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, also a Republican, said on Wednesday that he expected a $1.5 billion deficit in the coming fiscal year, ending in March 2007. 
 Mr. Pataki, who has been accused of becoming part of the dysfunctional Albany political system he once promised to reshape, spent the day trying to be conciliatory; he even appeared at a brunch held by his top Democratic antagonist, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, and invoked President Kennedy in his speech to the Legislature. 
 ''I was 15 years old when I heard President John F. Kennedy's inaugural address, and like so many Americans of my generation, I was inspired by the energy, optimism and patriotism of his message,'' he said. 
 But Mr. Silver did not appear ready for an olive branch. ''In college, I remember a president named John F. Kennedy who was quite inspiring,'' he said, in opening a press conference to respond to the governor's speech. ''He's no John Kennedy. The governor has the opportunity to establish the legacy for the benefit of New Yorkers, not for the benefit of Republican primary voters in Iowa and New Hampshire or elsewhere in the country.''
 Alan G. Hevesi, the Democratic state comptroller, faulted the governor's focus on cutting taxes, saying, ''Tax cuts, with no spending cuts, means more deficits, means more debt.'' That debt, he added, ''means our children will be paying for these tax cuts, so let's see if he fills that gap in the budget.''
 Mr. Hevesi added that he had heard ''nothing about public authorities reform, procurement reform, about debt reform, about fiscal reform.''
 Republicans had kinder words, with Mr. Bruno calling the speech ''a great overview.''
 He added, ''we never met a tax cut that we don't embrace.''
 John Faso, a former assemblyman and a candidate to succeed Mr. Pataki, said, ''I thought he focused on the transcendent issue that faces America, which is how do we compete in the global economy.'' 
 The speech comes as Mr. Pataki courts a much different audience these days: the bedrock Republicans to whom he must appeal should he pursue a presidential run in 2008. He has been spending time in New Hampshire and Iowa in recent months trying to build support, and by returning to the early themes he used to build a reputation as tax-cutting Northeastern governor, he could be re-establishing his credentials on the right.
 Many of his crime measures were familiar. He proposed once again to offer legislation this year for creating a civil confinement system to prevent the release of sexual predators who have finished their prison terms. He also proposed to end the statute of limitations on rape and other sexual assaults, and to require criminals to submit DNA samples to be compiled in a database. He did not bring up the state's death penalty, which he pushed through after becoming governor, but which was recently struck down by the courts.
 His tax cuts were the most sweeping proposals. In addition to calling for the elimination of the tax disadvantage for married couples, and proposing unspecified income tax cuts, Mr. Pataki proposed providing a $500 ''heating fuel tax credit'' to the elderly, eliminating the state's portion of the estate tax, cutting business taxes and providing partial rebates of school property taxes. 
 While state officials provided few details, eliminating the marriage penalty could save families several hundred dollars, or even thousands, depending on income and situation. In one hypothetical case provided by the State Division of Budget, a married couple with two children, using the standard deduction and with a combined income of $150,000, would save $821 under the plan to eliminate the penalty. And perhaps trying to couch it in a manner to appeal to more conservative voters, Mr. Pataki portrayed the plan as a ''pro-family tax cut.''
 But he also portrayed himself as a centrist brand of Republican governor, citing among his achievements a seven-state pact to reduce global warming emissions from power plants, a topic largely rejected by Republicans in Washington. 
 ''For him, I think the goal of the speech was to write the first draft of his legacy,'' said Blair Horner, the legislative director with the New York Public Interest Research Group. ''He's clearly presenting himself as kind of an innovative, progressive Republican. I could make arguments for why all of those things aren't true, but that's what he stands for.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. George E. Pataki greeted state legislators in Albany yesterday as he entered the Assembly chamber to make his last State of the State address to a joint session. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Gov. George E. Pataki gave his 12th annual State of the State address yesterday. Details of the cost of his proposals will come later this month. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); ESTATE TAX (77%); LITIGATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); POLITICS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); TUITION FEES (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); ALCOHOLS (64%); ETHANOL (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); MARRIAGE (57%); SALES REBATES (57%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Rebates; State of the State Message (NYS); Crime and Criminals 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%) Danny Hakim; Michael Cooper; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



94 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 813 words

 BODY:

I.B.M. to Freeze Pension Benefits And Provide Only 401(k) Plans
I.B.M., which has long operated one of the nation's largest corporate pension funds, said that it would freeze pension benefits for its American employees starting in 2008 and offer them only a 401(k) savings plan. The company said the shift, which is expected to spur even more major companies to move away from traditional defined-benefit pension plans, would save it as much as $3 billion through the next few years and provide it with a ''more predictable cost structure.'' The move by I.B.M., which is financially healthy, shows how even the most generous businesses no longer want to be saddled with the risk and expense of providing the firm promise of a lifetime pension. [Page A1.] 


U.S. Retail Sales Rose 3.2% in December
The nation's merchants, trotting out deep discounts before Christmas, lured enough last-minute buyers to deliver a decent, if unspectacular, sales gain of 3.2 percent in December. [C1.]

The nation's service sector grew more rapidly in December and the number of workers filing new claims for jobless benefits fell to the lowest level in five years last week, signs that the economy is entering the new year on a fairly strong footing. [C6.]

Standard & Poor's Cuts Ford's Debt Rating Again
Standard & Poor's cut Ford's debt rating two notches further into junk, less than a month after a similar move at General Motors. It also warned that G.M.'s problems, which the agency says might force G.M. to seek bankruptcy protection, could make Ford's comeback more difficult. [C1.]

Katrina Overwhelms Flood Insurance Program
The federal flood insurance program has been run deeply into the red by about $23 billion in claims from policyholders even as it has failed to help most victims of Hurricane Katrina. [C1.]

Lobbyist's Downfall Redistributes Charity Funds
As panicked lawmakers rush to distance themselves from the disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff following his guilty pleas, tens of thousands of dollars in political donations from him and his Indian tribe clients are being returned or redirected to charities in a vast reordering of campaign funds. [A1.]

Farmers in U.S. to Start Checking for Chicken Flu
In an effort to head off an epidemic of dangerous bird flu, the nation's chicken farmers will immediately begin testing nearly all flocks for influenzas, an industry trade group announced. [A19.]

A second child of a farm family in rural Turkey has died of avian influenza, Turkish health authorities said, sounding alarms about the capacity of the worldwide reporting system to track the spread of the disease. [A19.]

Setback for a Biotechnology Program in Missouri
A California-based company specializing in plant-made pharmaceuticals has pulled out of an agreement to move its operations to Northwest Missouri, where it was to have produced proteins from genetically modified rice. [C3.]

Google and Yahoo Are Expanding Into Television
Two ascending Internet giants, Google and Yahoo, will make plain today that they intend to move aggressively beyond the Internet browser and onto the television screen. [C1.]

Verizon Wireless to Offer Cellphones That Play Music
Verizon Wireless announced that it would begin selling phones that allow users to download songs over the airwaves. The company's decision to move into the music business through the cellphone market poses a potential threat to the makers of portable music players, like Apple Computer. Dennis F. Strigl, chief executive of Verizon Wireless, left, said at an event introducing the cellphone in Las Vegas: ''On the one device that 200 million Americans won't leave home without, you can have your music player. We're not after the narrow music player market -- what we have created is a whole new world of content distribution.'' [C4.]

Nasdaq Rises; Dow and S.&P. 500 Are Little Changed
The New Year's stock rally fizzled as disappointing sales at Wal-Mart weighed on retailers and falling oil and natural gas prices hurt energy producers. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and Dow Jones industrial average were little changed, failing to sustain initial gains. Helped by Xilinx and other technology shares, the Nasdaq index rallied 13.41 points. [C5.]

Positive Signs for Wall Street Firms in 2006
After a record 2005, it is plausible that investment brokerages will also have a record 2006. Some banks are so busy that they are set to add as much as 10 percent to their employee head count. Street Scene. [C7.]

Microsoft Shuts Down Chinese Journalist's Blog Site
Microsoft has shut down the blog site of a Chinese journalist who uses its MSN online service in China after he discussed a newspaper strike that broke out in Beijing a week ago. [C3.]

After the Holidays, Fast-Food Ads Stress Value
Fast-food chains like Wendy's and Burger King are stepping up campaigns for their lower-priced menu items. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C3.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows I.B.M. share prices since November, 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 401K PLANS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); FLOOD INSURANCE (88%); INFLUENZA (86%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (86%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (85%); LOBBYING (85%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (84%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (83%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); CHRISTMAS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); FAMILY FARMS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); RETAIL SALES (68%); HURRICANE KATRINA (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (64%); CHICKEN FARMING (64%); EPIDEMICS (63%); HURRICANES (63%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (63%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (61%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (61%); GUILTY PLEAS (50%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



95 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Slight Gains As the Rally Of '06 Stalls 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The new year stock rally fizzled yesterday as disappointing sales at Wal-Mart Stores weighed on retailers and falling oil and natural gas prices hurt energy producers.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average were little changed, failing to sustain initial gains. The S.& P. 500 increased 0.02 point, to 1,273.48, while the Dow average rose 2 points, to 10,882.15. The Nasdaq composite index, which gets 45 percent of its value from technology shares, rallied 13.41 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,276.87. The Nasdaq was helped by Xilinx Inc., the world's largest maker of programmable chips; it said sales last quarter beat its estimates.
 The S.& P. 500 gained 2 percent the previous two days, closing Wednesday at the highest since June 2001, after minutes from the Federal Reserve's December policy meeting suggested that the Fed might soon be finished raising interest rates. Better-than-expected reports yesterday on the service industries and first-time jobless claims failed to persuade some investors to buy. 
 Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retailer, dropped 63 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $45.69, for the biggest drop in the Dow average. Wal-Mart said it expected fourth-quarter earnings per share near the low end of its estimate of 82 cents to 86 cents. Last weekend, it said sales in its United States stores open at least a year rose 2.2 percent last month, the smallest December gain in five years.
 Kohl's, the low-priced department-store company, also slumped on a disappointing fourth-quarter profit forecast. The company said it would earn $1.06 to $1.07 a share in the fiscal fourth quarter ending this month. Analysts in a Thomson Financial survey had expected $1.12. Kohl's retreated $3.04, or 6.5 percent, to $43.94, for the steepest loss in the S.& P. 500.
 Natural gas prices sank to levels last seen before Hurricane Katrina; the government said gas inventories rose last week. Gas for February delivery fell 6.9 percent, to $9.499 per million British thermal units in New York, the lowest close since Aug. 19. Crude oil for February delivery fell 1 percent, to $62.79 a barrel.
 Xilinx advanced $1.62, or 6 percent, to $28.55. Xilinx said sales in the December quarter were up 11 percent to 12 percent from the previous quarter, faster than its own forecast for as much as 8 percent growth. Google closed above $450 a share for the first time; analysts at Bear, Stearns and Caris & Company recommended the stock in the last two days. Google climbed $6, to $451.24, bringing its advance for 2006 to 8.8 percent.
 More than 15 stocks fell for every 14 that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.79 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 16 percent above last year's daily average.
 Treasury securities ended a two-day rally after a report showed that the services industry expanded at a faster pace last month. Signs of strength could undermine the view that only one more rate increase by the Federal Reserve will be needed to curb inflation.
 By late in the day, the price of the 10-year note was down 4/32, to 101 4/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.36 percent, from 4.34 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); BONDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (70%); INVENTORIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (67%); PROGRAMMABLE LOGIC DEVICES (54%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: XILINX INC (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (75%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (64%); GOOGLE INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

TICKER: XLNX (NASDAQ) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (75%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (75%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (75%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



96 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Should Fed Worry About 99-Year Cycle? 

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
CALL it the 99-year cycle. If it continues, then this year may not be an enjoyable one for investors.
 William A. Draves, the co-author of ''Nine Shift,'' a book looking at parallels between the first years of the 20th century and the first years of the 21st century, points out that the stock market over the last nine years resembles the market in the years beginning in 1898.
He suggests that in both periods the economy was dealing with the changes wrought by new technologies that would change the way business was done: the automobile in the early 20th century changed the economy from agrarian to industrial, and now the Internet is changing it from industrial to information. 
 A look at the Dow Jones industrial average from the end of 1897 shows that it rose nicely for three years, then had three down years, two years of recovery and one year when not much happened. At the end of the nine years, the Dow was up 91 percent for the period.
 The closest comparison seems to be in the New York Stock Exchange composite index, which measures the performance of every stock on the Big Board. Since the end of 1996, the annual pattern has been similar to that of the Dow 99 years ago, and the index is up 87 percent.
 A chart showing the performance of stocks in the two eras indicates the matches are not perfect, with the market showing a little less enthusiasm as the 19th century ended than it was to show 99 years later, and a little more enthusiasm in the rebound of 2003 and 2004 than it had evidenced nearly a century earlier.
 There is, of course, no reason to think such a pattern is bound to continue. But if it does, this year will be a bad one. The Panic of 1907 caused banks to fail and provided evidence that the monetary policies of the United States were inadequate. 
 When the Treasury was unable to put up enough money to calm scared depositors, J. P. Morgan did so, a fact that appalled those who deemed it risky and humiliating for the government to have to rely on an investment banker to prevent disaster. The reaction led, in 1913, to the establishment of the Federal Reserve System to avert future crises.
 Today, faith in the Fed is high. The Fed's prompt action after the crash of 1987 and again after the technology bubble burst in 2001 are seen as proof that even if there is a housing bubble about to burst, there is little to fear in the broader economy. 
 But a look at The New York Times of 99 years ago shows that the government thought similar confidence was deserved by the system of the day, in which the Treasury withdrew money from banks when cash was plentiful and deposited it when seasonal demands for credit pushed interest rates to high levels.
 ''The Treasury has never come to the relief of stock gamblers and probably never will,'' proclaimed Treasury Secretary Leslie M. Shaw in a statement that was reported by The Times on Dec. 30, 1906. But, he explained, the Treasury had intervened to help business that was being hurt by high interest rates, and would continue to do so. He did not address what would happen if more cash was needed than the Treasury had available.
 Mr. Shaw stepped down as Treasury secretary early in 1907, after holding the office for more than five years, longer than anyone had served in six decades. His successor's inadequate efforts were one reason the Dow ended 1907 with a loss of 38 percent.
 Not, one might say, the most comforting historical precedent for Ben S. Bernanke, who will soon succeed the long-serving Alan Greenspan as chairman of the institution that, in no small part, owes its existence to the Panic of 1907.


GRAPHIC: Graph shows the NYSE compared to the DJIA.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); WRITERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); CENTRAL BANKS (85%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BONDS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (75%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); MONETARY POLICY (61%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%) United States Economy; Books and Literature; Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Credit; United States Economy; Appointments and Executive Changes; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; United States Economy

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (56%) William A Draves; Floyd Norris; Ben S Bernanke; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



97 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Service Sector Grows Sharply 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The nation's service sector grew more rapidly in December and the number of workers filing new claims for jobless benefits fell to the lowest level in five years last week, signs that the economy is entering the new year on a fairly strong footing. 
 The Institute for Supply Management said yesterday that its index of nonmanufacturing activity increased to 59.8 last month from 58.5 in November. The new figure was above the 59 reading forecast by analysts.
 Also yesterday, the government reported that first-time jobless claims fell by 35,000 last week, to 291,000, the lowest level in more than five years and further evidence that the labor market continues to shake off the effects of the late-summer hurricanes.
 Economists cautioned against making too much of the one-week jobless claims figure, noting that it could be exaggerating improvements in the labor market during a holiday period when layoffs are difficult to measure. The week measured by the figure will not be included in the December payrolls figure scheduled for release today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); WEATHER (69%) United States Economy; Service Industries; Labor; Unemployment Insurance

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Institute for Supply Management; Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



98 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; HAVENS Downtown Miami; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: What's Hot and Trendy and Not South Beach?

BYLINE: By PAMELA ROBIN BRANDT

 BODY:
From the elevated section of Interstate 95 that borders Miami's central business district on the west, the neon lights that illuminate skyscrapers in ''Miami Vice'' pastel colors have made the city look glamorous and exciting for years. Until recently, however, a drive down among the high-rises at night revealed mostly shuttered office buildings and empty spaces. Downtown Miami was, as Mayor Manny Diaz described it in one brief bark: ''Dead.''
 But the setting was spectacular. Bordered on its entire eastern side by Biscayne Bay and bisected by the Miami River, downtown Miami invited a transformation, and now that makeover is under way.
Cranes loom above the Biscayne Boulevard/Brickell Avenue corridor, which is greater downtown's Main Street, as developers build spaces where people will shop and play -- and live. 
 Dana A. Nottingham, executive director of the Miami Downtown Development Authority, said 3,041 new condominium units were recently completed in the northern Omni district (recently rechristened the Media and Entertainment District), the southern Brickell financial district and the central business and Park West districts between them that is the heart of downtown. Another 13,890 condo units are under construction in the same areas, and plans have been filed for buildings that would provide 10,534 more. 
 Although many of the purchasers are speculators, others intend to use their places as second homes. With downtown still a construction zone, they are buying the future.
 ''We know it'll be years until the area gets where it's going,'' said Sharon Dodge, a Seattle businesswoman who bought a one-bedroom waterfront vacation condo in Omni with her partner, Loly Carrillo, a creative director, last March. ''But it's exciting to be there instead of South Beach. Maybe it's just that downtown now is for a certain kind of person. I'd always rather be where things are going than be where things have been.'' 

The Scene
 New public spaces are helping to shape downtown. The Miami Performing Arts Center, a massive indoor/outdoor complex in the Omni area, is scheduled to open this fall. Just south, along Biscayne Bay, Bicentennial Park is being transformed into Museum Park, home of science and art museums.
 Several blocks farther south, Bayfront, an underused 32-acre public park redesigned in the 1980's by Isamu Noguchi, will be redesigned again ''to be more pedestrian friendly,'' Mayor Diaz said. 
 Between Museum and Bayfront Parks is American Airlines Arena, the 20,000-seat home of the Miami Heat basketball team, which has been holding concerts as well as sports events since opening in 2000. And there's plenty of retail space in the new projects, although few developers have announced the names of retailers who have signed on.
 For now, going out at night means ranging beyond the heart of downtown. Several good restaurants have opened in the last three years in nearby Brickell, including Duo, a stylish spot with a French-influenced New American menu; Mosaico, which serves innovative New Spanish food in a former firehouse; and the casual River Oyster Bar. West of Biscayne Boulevard, Omni and the adjoining, rather optimistically named Park West area still look depressed but have a vibrant nightlife with music clubs including the Pawn Shop, a celebrity favorite, and PS 14, and several dance clubs: Space, Nocturnal and Metropolis, whose dance floor is 35,000 square feet.
 Although Miami's hottest art and design scene is now concentrated north of Omni in Wynwood and the Design District, two art spaces opened downtown in 2005: the Cisneros Foundation's new exhibition space for Latin American art and the One Miami Riverwalk, a pedestrian path with art installations.
 ''I liked Sobe 15 years ago because it was like a multicultural village, where you could walk everywhere, and I think the scene will be like that here,'' Ms. Carrillo said, using the nickname for South Beach. ''But in Sobe, it's all a young, dance-oriented crowd. Here I think it will be artsy in a more sophisticated way.''
 Alain Mahe, a New York investor who has owned a waterfront single-family second home on nearby Di Lido Island for nine years, originally saw the four condo units he bought a year ago, in MarinaBlue and adjacent 900 Biscayne Bay, purely as investments. ''But now I am definitely considering moving to one of them in a few years, after they are completed,'' he said. ''I like the idea of living in cutting-edge architecture, and the views of the bay will be unbeatable.'' 
 After last year's savage hurricane season, Mr. Mahe also said that living in a downtown condo could actually enhance his outdoor relaxation. ''I like to boat,'' he said, ''not to fix my dock.''

Pros
 Compared to South Beach, downtown is a bargain. Prices range from $400 to $700 a square foot, said Oscar Rodriguez, a vice president of Related Group, a downtown residential developer. In South Beach, the median square-foot price for an upscale condo is $800 to $1,200, according to Gigi Ganatra, an independent real estate consultant. 
 ''You get more space for the money here,'' said Mark Sticht, a retired corporate executive whose primary home, owned with his wife, Delores, is in Key West. ''Apartments in South Beach are small -- I had more room in my college dorm.'' The Stichts bought their 850-square-foot Brickell one-bedroom ''as an urban base, for shopping, for Miami's excellent medical care, and so on,'' Mr. Sticht said.
 ''We also travel a lot, and downtown is a seven-minute drive from the airport.'' 

Cons
 There is no direct public transportation between Miami and Miami Beach, an inconvenience for condo owners themselves and a problem in attracting the short-term tenants that many count on to help pay the mortgage. 
 Traffic downtown is a problem, with brutal backups on Brickell Avenue, which has a drawbridge over the Miami River, and, some nights, around the American Airlines Arena. Outside a recent U2 concert, two of four northbound lanes on Biscayne Boulevard were blocked off for limo parking. 

The Real Estate Market
 The median downtown condo price is about $350,000 for a one-bedroom unit and $510,000 for a two-bedroom, Mr. Rodriguez said.
 While real estate prices in Miami-Dade County have risen by 15 to 20 percent annually in the last two years, downtown increases have been higher -- ''in the range of 30 percent,'' said Brad Hunter, South Florida director of MetroStudy, a real estate market research and analysis company. The market excitement has been generated by the new developments, and some condominium preconstruction sales could fairly be likened to frenzies. 
 When sales began last May in the first building in Icon, a three-tower luxury residence and hotel project in Brickell, ''buyers started lining up outside the sales office at 5 a.m.,'' said Ena Espino, a sales associate. ''There were people banging on the windows, there were people crying.'' All 734 units in the 60-story tower, designed by Philippe Starck, sold within two weeks. 
 The Loft, several blocks inland from Biscayne Bay, sold out its 196 stylishly Zen/industrial open-plan units in two and a half weeks. Loft-2, a sister project with 496 units, sold out in two and a half days.
 ''My forecast,'' Mr. Hunter said, ''is that the market will cool down greatly by the end of 2006'' because ''prices moved so high so rapidly, beyond what's supportable.''
 ''That doesn't mean bubble and then terrible collapse,'' he said. ''It's more of a transition back to reality, where developers don't sell out buildings in a weekend.''

LAY OF THE LAND

POPULATION -- 20,141, about 5 percent of the entire city's residents.

SIZE -- 3.7 square miles, about one-tenth of the city.

WHO'S BUYING -- New Yorkers and other Northeasterners, Los Angeles residents, Latin Americans and Europeans, especially from France.

GETTING THERE -- Downtown is eight miles east of Miami International Airport.

WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING -- The Four Seasons (1435 Brickell Avenue , Miami; 305-358-3535; www.fourseasons.com/Miami), with a two-acre pool terrace off the seventh-floor lobby, offers a taste of luxury-level downtown life for $350 to $975 a night. One of downtown's few remaining historical hideaways is the landmarked Miami River Inn (118 S.W. South River Drive, Miami; 305-325-0045; www.miamiriverinn.com), in four cottages built between 1906 and 1913, with a croquet court and 40 rooms at $69 to $199.

COMPARABLES

An Urban Lifestyle Within Easy Reach of Beaches and Bays

Information on properties was supplied by the listing companies.

WHAT -- 1-bedroom condominium
HOW MUCH -- $235,000

 This 625-square-foot loft-style unit is in the Loft, a new 196-unit building with a pool, a club room and a fitness center. Monthly fees are $256. Sales: Brenda Franzen, Related Cervera Realty Services, 305-371-5638; www.theloftdowntown.com.

WHAT -- 1-bedroom condominium
HOW MUCH -- $475,000

Located in the Venetia, a 382-unit 26-year-old building with a pool, tennis courts and a marina on Biscayne Bay, this 990-square-foot two-level unit on the seventh floor has a balcony, one and a half bathrooms and direct bay views. Monthly fees are about $500. Agent: Alisha Beverly of Barclay's Real Estate Group, 305-377-3000; www.barclaysrealestate.com.

WHAT -- 3-bedroom condominium
HOW MUCH -- $1,799,000

This 3,208-square-foot waterfront unit has water views, four and a half bathrooms and a balcony. It is in One Miami, an 896-unit building with two pools, two fitness centers, a garage and direct access to the public Miami Riverwalk promenade. Monthly fees are $1,100. Agent: Jesse Ottley of Related Cervera Realty Services, 305-502-6651; www.one-miami.com.


GRAPHIC: Photos: RENOVATION -- New retail and residential developments are remaking downtown Miami. (Photo by Richard Patterson for The New York Times)Map of Miami, Florida highlighting the downtown area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (85%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RETAILERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (65%); BASKETBALL (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (60%); AIRLINES (60%); SPORTS (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%) Geographic Profiles; Housing 

PERSON: Pamela Robin Brandt

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (95%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Miami (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



99 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; The Listings Jan. 6-Jan. 12; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 15215 words

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'BRIDGE & TUNNEL' Previews start Thursday. Opens Jan. 26. The ''Surface Transit'' star Sarah Jones takes her comic solo show about a diverse poetry slam to Broadway (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street; (212) 239-6200.

'RABBIT HOLE' Previews start Thursday. Opens Feb. 2. A husband and wife drift apart in the wake of a terrible accident in David Lindsay-Abaire's new family drama. Cynthia Nixon and Tyne Daly star (2:10). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street; (212) 239-6200.

'ZOMBOID!' Previews start Thursday. Opens Jan. 25. Richard Foreman, a downtown institution, tries multimedia in his latest experimental event, which features large projections shot in Australia (1:15). Ontological-Hysteric Theater, 131 East 10th Street, East Village; (212) 352-3101.

'ALMOST, MAINE' Opens Thursday. A comedy consisting of 11 episodes that all take place at 9 p.m. on a Friday, about love and heartbreak in a cold town in Maine (2:00). Daryl Roth Theater, 101 East 15th Street, Flatiron district; (212) 239-6200.

'BEAUTY OF THE FATHER' Opens Tuesday. The New York premiere of a new play by Nilo Cruz (''Anna in the Tropics'') about a young woman who travels to Spain to reconcile with her father (2:10). Manhattan Theater Club, at City Center, Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan; (212) 581-1212.

'THE LITTLE DOG LAUGHED' Opens Monday. If you are pining for the television series ''Entourage,'' currently on hiatus, you might want to try Douglas Carter Beane's new comedy, which covers similar territory: Hollywood agent, cute movie star, tabloid gossip (2:10). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton; (212) 246-4422.

Broadway

'CHITA RIVERA: THE DANCER'S LIFE' At 72, Ms. Rivera still has the voice, the attitude and -- oh, yes -- the legs to magnetize all eyes in an audience. If the singing scrapbook of a show that surrounds her is less than electric, there is no denying the electricity of the woman at its center (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' So much plot, so many years, so many characters to cram into less than three hours. This beat-the-clock musical adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prizewinning novel about Southern black women finding their inner warriors never slows down long enough for you to embrace it. LaChanze leads the vibrant, hard-working cast (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' On paper this musical tale of two mismatched scam artists has an awful lot in common with ''The Producers.'' But if you are going to court comparison with giants, you had better be prepared to stand tall. ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels,'' starring John Lithgow and Norbert Leo Butz, never straightens out of a slouch (2:35). (On Jan. 17, Jonathan Pryce will assume Mr. Lithgow's role.) Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'DOUBT, A PARABLE' (Pulitzer Prize, Best Play 2005, and Tony Award, Best Play 2005) Set in the Bronx in 1964, this play by John Patrick Shanley is structured as a clash of wills and generations between Sister Aloysius (Cherry Jones), the head of a parochial school, and Father Flynn (Brian F. O'Byrne), the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge. The play's elements bring to mind those tidy topical melodramas that were once so popular. But Mr. Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions (1:30). (On Tuesday, Eileen Atkins will assume Ms. Jones's role, and Ron Eldard Mr. O'Byrne's.) Walter Kerr Theater; 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped bio-musical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many-flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE ODD COUPLE' Odd is not the word for this couple. How could an adjective suggesting strangeness or surprise apply to a production so calculatedly devoted to the known, the cozy, the conventional? As the title characters in Neil Simon's 1965 comedy, directed as if to a metronome by Joe Mantello, Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick reprise their star performances from ''The Producers,'' and it's not a natural fit. Don't even consider killing yourself because the show is already sold out (2:10). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street; (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2005) This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence has found a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SWEENEY TODD' Sweet dreams, New York. This thrilling new revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's musical, with Michael Cerveris and Patti LuPone leading a cast of 10 who double as their own musicians, burrows into your thoughts like a campfire storyteller who knows what really scares you. The inventive director John Doyle aims his pared-down interpretation at the squirming child in everyone who wants to have his worst fears both confirmed and dispelled (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'A TOUCH OF THE POET' It takes Gabriel Byrne, playing a self-dramatizing monster father, roughly an hour to find his feet in Doug Hughes's lukewarm revival of Eugene O'Neill's drama. But when he does, in the show's second half, audiences are allowed a rare glimpse of a thrilling process: an actor's taking hold of the reins of a runaway role and riding it for all its worth. Unfortunately, nothing else in this underdirected, undercast production begins to match his pace (2:40). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street; (212) 719-1300. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did on Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'THE WOMAN IN WHITE' Bravely flouting centuries of accepted scientific theory, the creators of this adaptation of Wilkie Collins's spine tingler have set out to prove that the world is flat, after all. This latest offering from Andrew Lloyd Webber, directed by Trevor Nunn, seems to exist entirely in two dimensions, from its computer-generated backdrops to its decorative chess-piece-like characters (2:50). Marquis Theater, 211 West 45th Street; (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

* 'ABIGAIL'S PARTY' Scott Elliott's thoroughly delectable production of Mike Leigh's 1977 comedy about domestic discord among the British middle classes. Jennifer Jason Leigh leads a superb ensemble cast as a party hostess who wields the gin bottle like a deadly weapon, resulting in an evening of savagely funny chaos (2:15). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton; (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

* 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 4, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton; (212) 239-6200.(Isherwood)

'BINGO' Play bingo, munch on popcorn and watch accomplished actors freshen up a stale musical about game night (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton; (212) 239-6200. (Jason Zinoman)

'CANDIDA' The two men -- David Tillistrand as Candida's husband and Danaher Dempsey as the sniveling poet who falls under her spell -- aren't strong enough to make this a great ''Candida,'' but Shaw's insights still shine a century after he wrote the play, and the director, Michael Halberstam, manages to draw some good laughs in the third act (1:55). Bouwerie Lane Theater, 330 Bowery Lane, at Bond Street, East Village; (212) 279-4200. (Genzlinger)

* 'CELEBRATION' and 'THE ROOM' The Atlantic Theater Company's production of the first and most recent plays by Harold Pinter gets only the later work right. (That's ''Celebration,'' an unexpectedly boisterous comedy from 2000.) But if the italicized acting scales down dramatic effectiveness, it heightens thematic clarity. Essential viewing for anyone wondering why Mr. Pinter won the Nobel Prize this year (1:45). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DOG SEES GOD: CONFESSIONS OF A TEENAGE BLOCKHEAD' The ''Peanuts'' characters grow up, do drugs and have sex in this dark, disposable parody. Good grief (1:30). Century Center for the Performing Arts, 111 East 15th Street, Flatiron district; (212) 239-6200. (Zinoman)

'DRUMSTRUCK' This noisy novelty is a mixed blessing. Providing a two-foot drum on every seat, it offers an opportunity to exorcise aggressions by delivering a good beating, and, on a slightly more elevated level, it presents a superficial introduction to African culture, lessons in drumming and 90 minutes of nonstop music, song and dancing by a good-natured cast (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 2, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton; (212) 239-6200. (Lawrence Van Gelder)

'INFERTILITY' A harmless, insubstantial and highly amplified musical about the struggles of five people hoping to become parents (1:20). Dillon's, 245 West 54th Street; (212) 868-4444. (Zinoman)

* 'IN THE CONTINUUM' Danai Gurira and Nikkole Salter are both the authors and the performers of this smart, spirited and disarmingly funny show about two women: one a middle-class mother in Zimbabwe, the other a 19-year-old at loose ends in Los Angeles whose lives are upended by HIV diagnoses. Emphatically not a downer (1:30). Perry Street Theater, 31 Perry Street, Greenwich Village; (212) 868-4444. (Isherwood)

'MR. MARMALADE' A zany comedy by Noah Haidle about emotionally disturbed children. Yes, you read that right. Michael C. Hall of ''Six Feet Under'' plays the now-cuddly, now-abusive imaginary friend of a neglected 4 year old. Unfortunately, Mr. Haidle never truly capitalizes on his provocative conceit, choosing instead to draw us a scary but ultimately hollow cartoon (1:50). Roundabout Theater Company, Laura Pels Theater, at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street; (212) 719-1300. (Isherwood)

*'MRS. WARREN'S PROFESSION' An absolutely splendid Dana Ivey takes the title role in Charlotte Moore's sensitively acted production of Bernard Shaw's famously provocative play, which is celebrating its 100th anniversary on the New York stage this year (2:20). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea; (212) 727-2737. (Isherwood)

'THE OTHER SIDE' In Ariel Dorfman's ponderous comedy-drama, an old couple standing in for all of Suffering Humanity endure the trials of warfare and the bureaucratic absurdities that come with peace. Even the redoubtable Rosemary Harris and John Cullum can do little to enliven the proceedings (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club, City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street; (212) 581-1212. (Isherwood)

'RFK' This solo show written and starring Jack Holmes is a reasonably accurate historical portrait, but the performance, unfortunately, lacks the charisma and charm that made the real Bobby Kennedy a star (1:35). Culture Project @ 45 Bleecker, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village; (212) 253-9983. (Jonathan Kalb)

* 'THE TRIP TO BOUNTIFUL' Led by Lois Smith in a heart-wrenching performance, the cast never strikes a false note in Harris Yulin's beautifully mounted revival of Horton Foote's drama, finding an emotional authenticity in a work largely remembered as a tear-jerking chestnut. This is not to say you should neglect to bring handkerchiefs (1:50). Signature Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton; (212) 244-7529. (Brantley)

Off Off Broadway

* 'JACKIE HOFFMAN: CHANUKAH AT JOE'S PUB' The return of a beloved ritual for those wanting a reprieve from enforced benevolence and good cheer. The fearless, explosively funny Ms. Hoffman radiates anything but love and charity as she reviews the year in outrage, both global and personal (1:10). Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village; (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'WALKING IN MEMPHIS: THE LIFE OF A SOUTHERN JEW' Part memoir, part stand-up routine, this autobiographical piece is endearing, but not quite as colorful as it thinks it is. Jonathan Ross, the piece's creator, grew up Jewish in Memphis: anecdotes about his life may make for good theater, but will probably be better when he gets a little older (1:20). Abingdon Theater Arts Complex, 312 West 36th Street; (212) 868-4444. (Anne Midgette)

Long-Running Shows

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street; (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street; (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'FIDDLER ON THE ROOF' The Shtetl Land pavilion in the theme park called Broadway. With Rosie O'Donnell and Harvey Fierstein (2:55). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street; (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street; (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street; (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street; (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street; (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'APPARITION' Anne Washburn's gothic shorts are like an excellent late-night storytelling session at the Vincent Price camp for disturbed children (1:20). Connelly Theater, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village; (212) 352-3101; closing Sunday. (Zinoman)

'BIG APPLE CIRCUS -- GRANDMA GOES TO HOLLYWOOD' Long on sweetness, rich in color and highly tuneful, but short on eye-popping, cheer-igniting wows (2:10). Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center, Broadway and 63rd Street, (212) 307-4100; closing Sunday. (Van Gelder)

'FEAR ITSELF: SECRETS OF THE WHITE HOUSE' In the latest cartoonish sendup of the Bush administration, the simple task of translating ideas into dramatic form seems to have been overlooked (1:45). Theater for the New City, 155 First Avenue, at 10th Street, East Village; (212) 352-0255; closing Sunday. (Zinoman)

'SEASCAPE' While George Grizzard sounds affecting depths in this audience-friendly revival of Edward Albee's 1975 Pulitzer Prizewinner, Mark Lamos's production is most notable for being likable and forgettable, traits seldom associated with Albee plays. The ever-vital Frances Sternhagen plays life-affirming wife to Mr. Grizzard's curmudgeonly husband, while Frederick Weller and the wonderful Elizabeth Marvel are the sea creatures who confront the old couple one afternoon at the beach (1:45). Lincoln Center Theater, at the Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street; (212) 239-6200; closing Sunday. (Brantley)

'SOUVENIR' Stephen Temperley's sweet, long love letter of a play celebrates the unlikely career of Florence Foster Jenkins, a notoriously tone-deaf soprano socialite. It's a show that could easily have been pure camp, and at over two hours it still wears thin. But with Vivian Matalon directing the redoubtable Judy Kaye as Mrs. Jenkins, and Donald Corren as her accompanist, the play's investigative empathy turns the first act into unexpectedly gentle, affecting comedy (2:15). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street; (212) 239-6200; closing Sunday. (Brantley)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

* 'BREAKFAST ON PLUTO' (R, 129 minutes) ''Candide'' meets ''Tom Jones'' in drag heaven might describe Neil Jordan's picaresque fairy tale about a foundling who becomes a transvestite in 1970's and 80's London, against the backdrop of the Irish troubles. (Stephen Holden)

* 'BROKEBACK MOUNTAIN' (R, 134 minutes) Annie Proulx's heartbreaking story of two ranch hands who fall in love while herding sheep in 1963 has been faithfully translated onto the screen in Ang Lee's landmark film. Heath Ledger (in a great performance worthy of Brando at his peak) and Jake Gyllenhaal bring them fully alive. (Holden)

* 'CACHE (HIDDEN)' (R, 121 minutes, in French) Michael Haneke, one of the most elegantly sadistic European directors working today, deposits his audience at the intersection of voyeurism and paranoia in this tense, politically tinged psychological thriller about vengeance and injustice. Juliette Binoche and Daniel Auteuil are in top form as an affluent Parisian couple menaced by mysterious drawings and videotapes. (A. O. Scott)

'EL CARRO' (No rating, 93 minutes, in Spanish) Pleasant but slight, this sociological farce from Colombia tells the story of a vintage convertible that changes the lives of the middle-class Velez family to mildly humorous effect. (Nathan Lee)

* 'CASANOVA' (R, 110 minutes) Heath Ledger affirms his status as the pansexual art-house heartthrob of the moment in this high-spirited farce suggested by the career of 18th-century Venice's most notorious seducer. Silly, sly and delightful. (Scott)

'CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN 2' (PG, 100 minutes) In this unnecessary sequel to a mediocre remake, Tom Baker (Steve Martin) and his clan visit Lake Winnetka, also the regular summer dwelling of Tom's longtime archrival (Eugene Levy). A tiresome film, full of repetitive, misfired jokes, false emotions and caricatures. Even the pairing of Mr. Martin and Mr. Levy fails to inspire anything more than the occasional smile.(Laura Kern)

'CHICKEN LITTLE' (G, 80 minutes) The sky is falling! The sky is falling! Well, it's not as bad as that. Almost, though. (Scott)

'THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA: THE LION, THE WITCH AND THE WARDROBE' (PG, 135 minutes) This honorable adaptation of C. S. Lewis's novel has much of the power and charm of the source. The fusing of live action and computer-generated imagery is adequate, if rarely inspiring. Adult viewers are likely to imbibe the film's wonders indirectly, through the eyes of accompanying children, who are likely to be delighted and sometimes awed. (Scott)

'THE FAMILY STONE' (PG-13, 102 minutes) A home-for-the-holidays movie about a tribe of ravenous cannibals that bares its excellent teeth at anyone who doesn't accommodate its preening self-regard, most recently a big-city executive played by a very good Sarah Jessica Parker. (Manohla Dargis)

* 'GOOD NIGHT, AND GOOD LUCK.' (PG, 90 minutes) George Clooney, with impressive rigor and intelligence, examines the confrontation between the CBS newsman Edward R. Murrow (a superb David Strathairn) and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy (himself). Plunging you into a smoky, black-and-white world of political paranoia and commercial pressure, the film is a history lesson and a passionate essay on power, responsibility and the ethics of journalism. (Scott)

* 'HARRY POTTER AND THE GOBLET OF FIRE' (PG-13, 150 minutes) Childhood ends for the young wizard with the zigzag scar in the latest addition to the Potter saga, even as the director Mike Newell keeps its British eccentricity, fatalism and steady-on pluck irresistibly intact. (Dargis)

'INITIAL D' (No rating, 95 minutes, in Cantonese) A street-racing film based on a popular Japanese comic book, ''Initial D'' pitches swaggering Takeshi (Shawn Yue) against diffident Takumi (Jay Chou), a reluctant hero who prefers the charms of his girlfriend (Anne Suzuki) to the dangers of hairpin bends. A slick but silly affair unlikely to appeal to anyone over 15. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

* 'THE INTRUDER' (No rating, 130 minutes, in French) The French director Claire Denis's most ambitious and poetically intuitive film explores the troubled soul of a brooding loner who undergoes a heart transplant and travels halfway around the world, from the Jura mountains to the South Seas, to begin a new life. This visually rhapsodic film is both profound and profoundly enigmatic. (Holden)

* 'KING KONG' (PG-13, 180 minutes) Peter Jackson's remake is, almost by definition, too much -- too long, too big, too stuffed with characters and effects-driven set pieces -- but it is also remarkably nimble and sweet. Going back to the Depression-era setting of the 1933 original, Mr. Jackson's film is as much a tribute to the old seat-of-the-pants spirit of early motion pictures as it is an exercise in technological bravura. Naomi Watts as the would-be movie star Ann Darrow and Andy Serkis as the big monkey who loves her have a rapport that gives the spectacle the pathos and sweetness it needs, and help to turn a brute spectacle into a pop tragedy. (Scott)

* 'MATCH POINT' (R, 124 minutes) Woody Allen's best in years, and one of his best ever. Beneath the dazzling, sexy surface, this tale of social climbing in London (brilliantly acted by Jonathan Rhys-Meyers, Scarlett Johansson and Emily Mortimer) is ice cold and pitch black, which curiously enough makes it a superior diversion. (Scott)

'THE MATADOR' (R, 96 minutes) Pithy remarks put into the mouth of a star (Pierce Brosnan) playing against type impart a greasy sheen of sophistication to this weightless, amoral romp about a professional hit man facing a midlife crisis. (Holden)

'MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA' (PG-13, 144 minutes) Think ''As the Geisha Turns,'' with devious rivals, swoonworthy swains, a jaw-dropping dance number recycled from Madonna's Drowned World tour and much clinching, panting and scheming. Directed by Rob Marshall from the Arthur Golden book, and starring Ziyi Zhang, Gong Li and Michelle Yeoh. (Dargis)

'MRS. PALFREY AT THE CLAREMONT' (No rating, 108 minutes) This weepie about the tender friendship between a 70-something British widow (Joan Plowright) and a struggling young writer (Rupert Friend) is as anachronistic as the notion of a Terence Rattigan play set in the present. (Holden)

* 'PARADISE NOW' (PG-13, 90 minutes, in Arabic and Hebrew) This melodrama about two Palestinians, best friends from childhood, chosen to carry out a suicide bombing in Tel Aviv is a superior thriller whose shrewdly inserted plot twists and emotional wrinkles are calculated to put your heart in your throat and keep it there. (Holden)

* 'PRIDE & PREJUDICE' (PG, 128 minutes) In this sumptuous, extravagantly romantic adaptation of Jane Austen's 1813 novel, Keira Knightley's Elizabeth Bennet exudes a radiance that suffuses the movie. This is a banquet of high-end comfort food perfectly cooked and seasoned to Anglophilic tastes. (Holden)

'THE PRODUCERS' (PG-13, 127 minutes) At a fraction of the Broadway ticket price, it's no bargain. (Scott)

'RENT' (PG-13, 135 minutes) Jonathan Larson's beloved musical is as loud, earnest and sentimental as ever. But somehow, as it has made the transition to the screen almost a decade after its theatrical debut (with much of the original stage cast), the show has dated less than the objections to it. Yes, the East Village was never really like this, but in Chris Columbus's hands, the hectic updating of ''La Boheme'' to the age of AIDS and gentrification feels surprisingly sweet and fresh. (Scott)

'THE RINGER' (PG-13, 94 minutes) A hilarious and resourceful cast of intellectually challenged actors smartens up an otherwise brain-dead comedy produced by the Farrelly brothers. Johnny Knoxville stars, dimly, as a cash-strapped office clerk who tries to rig the Special Olympics. (Lee)

'RUMOR HAS IT' (PG-13, 96 minutes) Jennifer Aniston, trying her best, traipses through this pointless updating of ''The Graduate,'' in which we learn that Ann Bancroft was really Shirley MacLaine all along, and that Dustin Hoffman grew up to be Kevin Costner. Actually, that makes the movie sound much more interesting than it is. (Scott)

* 'SYRIANA' (R, 122 minutes) Ambitious, angry and complicated, Stephen Gaghan's second film tackles terrorism, American foreign policy, global trade and the oil business through four interwoven stories. There are at least a half-dozen first-rate performances, and Mr. Gaghan, who wrote and directed, reinvents the political thriller as a vehicle for serious engagement with the state of the world. (Scott)

'TRANSAMERICA' (R, 103 minutes) Felicity Huffman's performance as a preoperative transsexual on a cross-country journey with her long-lost son is sensitive and convincing, and helps the picture rise above its indie road-picture cliches. (Scott)

'WALK THE LINE' (PG-13, 138 minutes) Johnny Cash gets the musical biopic treatment in this moderately entertaining, never quite convincing chronicle of his early years. Joaquin Phoenix, sweaty, inarticulate and intense as Cash, is upstaged by Reese Witherspoon, who tears into the role of June Carter (Cash's creative partner long before she became his second wife) with her usual charm, pluck and intelligence. (Scott)

'THE WHITE COUNTESS' (PG-13, 135 minutes) Set in Shanghai in 1936 and starring Ralph Fiennes and three Redgraves, the final collaboration between James Ivory and Ismail Merchant (who died during post-production) wants to be a pulse-racing cross between ''Casablanca'' and 'The English Patient.'' But this fussy, pieced-together epic manque never develops any stamina. (Holden)

'YOURS, MINE AND OURS' (PG, 90 minutes) Dennis Quaid and Rene Russo inhabit roles originated by Henry Fonda and Lucille Ball in this snug, airtight remake of the 1968 comedy about the combining of two antagonistic families with 18 children between them. Cutesy unreality prevails. (Holden)

Film Series

ARTIST'S CHOICE: STEPHEN SONDHEIM (Through Sunday) The Museum of Modern Art's 15-film series of works chosen by Mr. Sondheim, the legendary Broadway composer and lyricist, concludes this weekend with a selection of period films. They include Truffaut's ''Story of Adele H.'' (1975); Stanley Kubrick's gorgeous romantic drama ''Barry Lyndon'' (1975); Louis Malle's sexy comic drama ''Le Voleur'' (1967); and ''I Compagni'' (1963), Mario Monicelli's drama, starring Marcello Mastroianni, about a textile factory strike. Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Anita Gates)

ESSENTIAL HITCHCOCK (Through Thursday) Film Forum's five-week retrospective of Alfred Hitchcock's films comes to an end next week. The final features include ''Vertigo'' (1958), starring James Stewart and Kim Novak; ''To Catch a Thief'' (1955), pairing Grace Kelly and Cary Grant in Monaco; the silent version of ''Blackmail'' (1929); and ''I Confess'' (1953), starring Montgomery Clift as a Quebecois priest suspected of murder. 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8110; $10. (Gates)

FASSBINDER (Through Feb. 26) IFC Center's Weekend Classics Program is presenting a series of 11 feature films and 2 shorts by Rainer Werner Fassbinder (1946-82). This weekend's film is ''Love Is Colder Than Death'' (1969), a romantic triangle involving a pimp, his mistress and a man sent to kill him, shown with the 1966 short ''The Little Chaos,'' about door-to-door salesmen who turn to crime. 323 Avenue of the Americas, at West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771; $10.75. (Gates)

NEW YORK JEWISH FILM FESTIVAL (Through Jan. 26) The 15th annual program opens Wednesday, sponsored by the Jewish Museum and the Film Society of Lincoln Center. Opening day offers the United States premiere of Guillaume Moscovitz's ''Belzec'' (2005), a French documentary about a Polish death camp, and two New York premieres. They are Jerry Blumenthal and Gordon Quinn's ''Golub: Late Works Are the Catastrophes'' (2004), a follow-up to their first film on the artist Leon Golub, and Radu Mihaileanu's ''Live and Become'' (2005), a drama about a young boy in a Sudanese refugee camp who takes on a Jewish identity. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5600; $10. (Gates)

PIXAR: 20 YEARS OF ANIMATION (Through Feb. 6) A complete retrospective of Pixar animated films continues at the Museum of Modern Art. This week's films are ''Toy Story 2'' (1999) and two Oscar-winning shorts, ''Geri's Game'' (1997), about an old man playing chess, and ''For the Birds'' (2000), about a group of snobbish feathered friends. 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

Pop
Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

AKIM FUNK BUDDHA AND THE EBONYASIA PROJECT (Sunday) The American-born, Zimbabwe-raised Akim Ndlovu, who performs as Akim Funk Buddha, creates theatrical mash-ups involving dance, poetry, music and storytelling. Here he offers a program exploring Asian music and movement styles. 10 p.m., Zebulon, 258 Wythe Avenue, at Metropolitan Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 218-6934. No cover. (Laura Sinagra)

ANTHRAX (Tomorrow) The amiable speed punk-metal band Anthrax had a tough time defending its name during the country's post-9/11 bout with actual anthrax. After a decade and a half of quitting and reconciliations, the original band is back in support of a greatest-hits collection. God Forbid opens. 8 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171, ticketmaster.com; $25. (Sinagra)

AUTORICKSHAW (Thursday) This Canadian quartet, consisting of the vocalist-pianist Suba Sankaran, the tabla player Ed Hanley, the bassist Rich Brown and the percussionist Debashis Sinha, mixes South Indian traditional sounds and Bollywood-flavored pieces with funk and jazz. 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200; $15. (Sinagra)

CHRIS BROWN (Tonight) Riding rough beats with a still discernable childlike sweetness on the single ''Run It,'' the frisky teenage R & B singer Chris Brown snags both the adult hip-hop crowd and younger fans who liked Usher's ''Yeah,'' despite not being quite sure what the lyrics were about. 8, Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street, Englewood, N.J., (201) 816-8160; $35 to $45. (Sinagra)

CORDERO (Tuesday) Mixing the open atmospherics of the Southwest with the gritty feel of the Brooklyn art scene, the bilingual Ani Cordero (who has worked with Calexico and Giant Sand) and her band make guitar rock that gives urban brashness some borderland mystery. 7:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700; $8. (Sinagra)

THE BUSH TETRAS, MATT SWEENEY (Monday) The Bush Tetras are no-wave luminaries whose funky punk made them downtown stars in 1980, and who are now enjoying New York's return to the sound they helped invent. The local guitarist Matt Sweeney has been in the subcultural spotlight lately because of his Superwolf collaboration with Will Oldham. 9 p.m., Lit Lounge, 93 Second Avenue, near East Fifth Street, East Village, (212) 777-7987; no cover. (Sinagra)

DAMON & NAOMI, WINGDALE COMMUNITY SINGERS (Tonight) After the bumpy breakup of the less-is-more indie-rock trio Galaxie 500, the drummer Damon Krukowski and the bassist Naomi Yang morphed into a ghostly dream-rock duo. They play tonight with the intimate, improvisatory horn players Bhob Rainey and Greg Kelley. In the Wingdale Community Singers, the atmospheric guitarist David Grubbs, the vocalist Hannah Marcus and the novelist Rick Moody get together and make literate Brooklynite folk. 8, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, at Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; $10. (Sinagra)

DION (Monday) Dion DiMucci sang ''The Wanderer'' just as his wildest ups and downs were getting under way. His journey through the 70's and beyond involved folk-rock redirection, returns to doo-wop form, drugs, recovery and bouts of Christianity. Here he plays acoustic versions of songs by the likes of Robert Johnson, Willie Dixon and Hank Williams. 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200; $35 (sold out). (Sinagra)

DIPLO (Tonight) This Philadelphia D.J. continues to explore hip-hop's global permutations, weaving rap and new wave with dancehall and Brazilian baille funk. Bonus: All galleries are open. 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., Guggenheim Auditorium, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500; $15 (free for museum members). (Sinagra)

THE DOUBLE, CELEBRATION, KYP MALONE (Tomorrow) The kaleidoscopic Double uses all the tools at its lo-fi disposal in service of arty pop undercut with burbles, dark surges and twinges. Celebration's noisy rock is a vehicle for the vocalist Katrina Ford's guttural acrobatics. Kyp Malone is a vocalist and guitarist in the spacey TV on the Radio. For years a fixture on San Francisco's underground art scene, he's been doing his own thing lately. 8:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $12.(Sinagra)

GREG GARING (Tonight) Greg Garing once mixed country with electronica, but he's moved steadily toward country's roots, holding on to old-fashioned, heart-on-sleeve honky-tonk. 9, Sin-e, 150 Attorney Street, Lower East Side, (212) 388-0077; $10. (Jon Pareles)

REBECCA GATES (Tuesday) As the lead singer and guitarist for the spare 90's duo the Spinanes, from Portland, Ore., Rebecca Gates wrote thoughtful but driving songs made more intimate by her low, breathy vocals. Lately she's been trying out new solo material. 7:30 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $9. (Sinagra)

BEN GIBBARD (Tuesday) The wistful, sad-voiced Death Cab for Cutie frontman (and the voice of the electronic offshoot Postal Service) will perform solo. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $20 (sold out). (Sinagra)

IMOGEN HEAP (Wednesday) Taking overproduced sheen to the far reaches of existential loneliness, Imogen Heap's single ''Hide and Seek'' sounds like the work of an a cappella boy band after facing off with the malevolent computer from ''2001: A Space Odyssey.'' She ventures into shoe-gazey pop, too. Zoe Keating also plays. 7 p.m., Avalon, 662 Avenue of the Americas, at 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 807-7780 or ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171; $20 in advance, $22 at the door. (Sinagra)

IOs (Tomorrow) Just like the Canadian band Stars, the iOs remind you of that exuberant 90's moment when bands like Mavis Piggott and Madder Rose made it seem that smart girl voices over big guitars were the way of the future. The iOs have a guy singer, too. But as in Stars, the female voice is the more affecting. The Primms, the Sugarbeats and Jennifer O'Connor also play. 9 p.m., Cake Shop, 152 Ludlow Street, near Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 253-0036; $7. (Sinagra)

IVY (Tonight) This dreamy pop trio -- the guitarist and producer Andy Chase, Andy Schlesinger of Fountains of Wayne and the sultry French singer-next-door Dominique Durand -- specializes in shimmery upbeat songs about evanescent love and wintery ennui. Matt Costa opens. 10, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $16 in advance, $18 at the door. (Sinagra)

KAKANDE (Tomorrow) Famoro Dioubate is a Guinean griot whose band, Kakande, makes music featuring balafon, African and European flutes and cello over electric bass, drums and congas. 10 p.m., Barbes, 379 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; $5. (Sinagra)

MORNINGWOOD, THE EXIT (Wednesday) Morningwood is a local band that plays muscularly melodic rock with a hint of 80's bar-pop panache. The band's singer, Chantal Claret, is often compared to the Pretenders' Chrissie Hynde. The Exit, a guitar trio, makes melodic punk. Army of Me also plays. 7 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111;, $13 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sinagra)

MUSETTE EXPLOSION (Tomorrow) Taking as inspiration the French accordion music of the 30's and 40's as well as Django Reinhardt-style jazz, Musette Explosion plays a kind of Gypsy hybrid that's different from the music of the currently proliferating Gypsy-punk scene. 6 p.m., Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000; free. (Sinagra)

LAS RUBIAS DEL NORTE (Sunday) Led by the singers Allyssa Lamb and Emily Hurst, this band mixes musicians from the United States, France and Colombia who mine their Latin heritage in the performance of boleros, cha-chas, cumbias, huaynos and cowboy songs. 10 p.m., Rodeo Bar, 375 Third Avenue, at 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 683-6500; no cover. (Sinagra)

RYE COALITION (Tomorrow) Rye Coalition began as an angular rock band in the style of Fugazi but now mixes in more elements of 70's hard rock. 8 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $10. (Sinagra)

SA-RA (Wednesday) This hip-hop production group, made up of Om'Mas Keith, Taz Arnold and Shafiq Husayn, has produced songs for Common, Bilal and Erykah Badu, among others. It has its own soul-based songs as well, some of which will be released by Kanye West's label next year. 10 p.m., Canal Room, 285 West Broadway, at Canal Street, Chinatown, (212) 941-8100; $10. (Sinagra)

SOUTHSIDE JOHNNY & THE ASBURY JUKES (Tonight and tomorrow night) While his friend Bruce Springsteen left the Jersey Shore behind and went on to write all-American anthems and parables, Southside Johnny Lyon stuck to the old bar-band basics: rolling R & B vamps and raspy-voiced, good-natured soul plaints, complete with horn section. 8, B. B. King's Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144; $35. (Sinagra)

TEDDY THOMPSON (Wednesday) A British folk-rock scion, Teddy Thompson looks to distinguish himself from his parents, Richard and Linda, while still honoring their legacy. His baritone voice sounds like his father's without the bite, not always a bad thing. 9 p.m., the Living Room, 154 Ludlow Street, near Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 533-7235; no cover (suggested $5 donation). (Sinagra)

LA TROUPE MAKANDAL (Tomorrow) La Troupe Makandal continues to bring the spiritually directed drumming, dancing and chanting voodoo rituals of Haiti to the larger public. Here, in a program called ''Carnival Dawn,'' the group concentrates on the rites of winter, particularly the koupe gato, a celebration of the festival of the Three Kings. 8 p.m., the Great Room at South Oxford Space, 138 South Oxford Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 953-6638; $15; students with ID and ages 65+, $10; children under 12, $5. (Sinagra)

WE ARE SCIENTISTS, OXFORD COLLAPSE (Thursday) The pointy guitars and firecracker drums of this local band propel the tremulous pleas of Keith Murray into a full-on lust panic. Where similar bands like Hot Hot Heat can sound too studied, We Are Scientists makes its precise parts seem inspired. The trio Oxford Collapse offers shaggy art-rock that recalls acerbic forebears like the Embarrassment. Bishop Allen and the Kites also play. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $13 (sold out). (Sinagra)

Cabaret
Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

ANNIE ROSS (Wednesday) Cool, funny, swinging and indestructible, this 75-year-old singer and sometime actress exemplifies old-time hip in its most generous incarnation. 9:15 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133; $25, with a $12 minimum. (Stephen Holden)

'SINGING ASTAIRE' (Tomorrow and Sunday) This smart, airy revue, which pays tribute to Fred Astaire, has returned, featuring Eric Comstock, Hilary Kole and Christopher Gines. 5:30 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; $30, with a $10 minimum. (Holden)

* ELAINE STRITCH (Tonight and tomorrow, and Tuesday through Thursday) Dispensing with her theatrical signature numbers, Ms. Stritch weaves 16 songs new to her repertory into a funny running monologue of her adventures in and out of show business. 8:45 p.m., Cafe Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600; $125; dinner, which is required, is served at 6:30. (Holden)

Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

ANDERSKOV ACCIDENT (Wednesday) The Danish keyboardist Jacob Anderskov leads this electro-acoustic project, which released its strong second album, ''Unity of Action,'' last year; for this rare New York engagement, the band's personnel will include the trumpeter Cuong Vu, the multireedist Chris Speed and the trombonist Peter Dahlgren, among others. 8 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Nate Chinen)

PETER BERNSTEIN QUARTET (Thursday through Jan. 14) Mr. Bernstein, a guitarist with a clean tone and a crisp technique, rounds up some estimable longtime compatriots: the pianist Brad Mehldau, the bassist Doug Weiss and the drummer Bill Stewart. 9 and 11 p.m. and 12:30 a.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

MICHAEL BISIO (Tonight) The physicality of Mr. Bisio's bass playing puts him in touch with numerous predecessors in the avant-garde, but his expressive touch is distinctive; he plays an early set with a quartet featuring the saxophonist Avram Fefer, and a later set in trio with the pianist Matthew Shipp and the drummer Jay Rosen. 8 and 10, the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

BUSHWACKED (Wednesday) The title of this avant-garde oratorio by the saxophonist Mark Whitecage provides a good indication of its political bent and degree of subtlety; the piece's New York premiere will feature Roy Campbell Jr. on trumpet and vocals, Rozanne Levine on clarinet, Joe Fonda on bass and Jay Rosen on drums. 8 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

RAVI COLTRANE QUARTET (Tuesday) As on the excellent recent album ''In Flux'' (Savoy), Mr. Coltrane places his tenor and soprano saxophones against the cohesive stirrings of a working band: the pianist Luis Perdomo, the bassist Drew Gress and the drummer E. J. Strickland. 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover, $15, $12 in advance. (Chinen)

* DETROIT: MOTOR CITY JAZZ (Thursday through Jan. 14) The bassist Ron Carter leads this conceptual study of Detroit's undervalued jazz legacy, touching on the music of Milt Jackson, Kenny Burrell and Barry Harris; also on hand are the saxophonists Yusef Lateef and Charles McPherson, the trumpeter Marcus Belgrave and the trombonist Curtis Fuller. 8 p.m., Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, www.jalc.org; $30 to $130. (Chinen)

KURT ELLING (Tuesday through Jan. 14) Mr. Elling's sure-footed musicality and literary sensibility have made him one of the premier vocalists of our time; he comes with a flexible rhythm section, spearheaded by the pianist Laurence Hobgood. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

PETER EPSTEIN/BRAD SHEPIK/MATT KILMER (Tuesday) As on the album ''Lingua Franca'' (Songlines), this trio blends world folk influences with jazz improvisation; Mr. Epstein's alto saxophone, Mr. Shepik's guitar and Mr. Kilmer's percussion each play an equal role in the collective. A preceding set, at 10 p.m., will feature Crunch, a band composed of Mr. Epstein, the bassist J. Anthony Granelli and the slide guitarist David Tronzo. 11 p.m., Bowery Poetry Club, 308 Bowery, between Houston and Bleecker Streets, East Village, (212) 614-0505; cover, $8. (Chinen)

THE MUSIC OF TOMMY FLANAGAN AND MILT JACKSON (Tuesday through Jan. 15) Tommy Flanagan and Milt Jackson were, respectively, a grippingly erudite pianist and a sophisticatedly bluesy vibraphonist; this tribute features the worthy inheritors Renee Rosnes and Steve Nelson on piano and vibes, and the sterling rhythm team of Peter Washington and Lewis Nash on bass and drums. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set on Fridays and Saturdays, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar.(Chinen)

THE FOUR BAGS (Sunday) The instrumental palette of this collaborative quartet -- trombone, accordion, guitar and reeds -- creates the impression of a contemporary chamber jazz; so does the repertory, which includes arrangements of Chopin and Brian Wilson, along with thoughtful original compositions. 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

CURTIS FULLER AND LOUIS HAYES (Thursday) Mr. Fuller, the trombonist, and Mr. Hayes, the drummer, were both prominent participants in the golden era of hard-bop; here they enlist Mulgrew Miller on piano and Robert Hurst on bass, and spotlight a couple of young trumpeters on the rise, Maurice Brown and Sean Jones. 11:30 p.m. and 1 a.m., Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

CHICO HAMILTON AND FRIENDS (Thursday) Since the 1940's, Mr. Hamilton has practiced a perceptive and colorful approach to jazz percussion; he performs here with a number of younger colleagues. 8 p.m., Makor, 35 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 601-1000; cover, $15. (Chinen)

JOHN HEBERT QUARTET (Tonight) Mr. Hebert, a bassist with experimental tendencies and compositional ambitions, leads a versatile group with the guitarist John Abercrombie, the tenor saxophonist Adam Kolker and the drummer Bob Meyer. 10 p.m., Detour, 349 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 533-6212; cover, $10, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)

JOHN HOLLENBECK'S CLAUDIA QUINTET (Thursday) This improvising chamber ensemble pursues texturally oriented and often contrapuntal exploration; Mr. Hollenbeck's drumming is one color on a palette that also includes Chris Speed's clarinet and tenor saxophone, Ted Reichman's accordion and Matt Moran's vibraphone. They share their billing with Jazz Big Band Graz, an accomplished group from Austria. 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover, $10 and one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

INDO-PAK (Thursday) The alto saxophonist Rudresh Mahanthappa leads this new trio, which fuses Indian music with jazz improvisation; his partners are Rez Abbasi on guitar and Dan Weiss on tabla. 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778; cover, $15, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)

MAT MANERI GROUP (Thursday) On the recent album ''Pentagon'' (Thirsty Ear), the violinist and violist Mat Maneri plugged into electric fusion without forsaking the tenor and thrust of free-jazz; he reprises those explorations in a group featuring his father, Joe Maneri, on reeds, along with Jacob Sacks on piano, John Hebert on bass and Gerald Cleaver and John McLellan on drums. 8 and 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $10 per set. (Chinen)

ANDY MILNE AND DAPP THEORY (Sunday and Wednesday) With Dapp Theory, the keyboardist Andy Milne fashions a contemporary fusion explicitly indebted to hip-hop; his band includes Loren Stillman on saxophones, Janek Gwizdala on bass, Sean Rickman on drums and John Moon on percussion and spoken word. Sunday at 8 and 10 p.m., Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626; cover, $10, with a $10 minimum; no cover for students with ID. Wednesday at 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

BOB MINTZER BIG BAND (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Mintzer, a saxophonist and decade-long member of the Yellowjackets, has led this 16-piece outfit for roughly the same span; it's a brightly brassy ensemble with a modernistic sheen. 8 and 10 and midnight, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

BEN MONDER TRIO (Tuesday) In the hands of Mr. Monder, the electric guitar is a coloristic instrument first and foremost; his fine recent album, ''Oceana'' (Sunnyside), showcases both his dizzyingly proficient solo puzzles and his coolly convoluted pieces for trio. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $20. (Chinen)

JAMES MOODY QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow) Like his mentor, Dizzy Gillespie, the alto saxophonist James Moody is a stalwart bebopper and one of jazz's most ebullient entertainers; he leads a solid group consisting of the pianist Renee Rosnes, the bassist Todd Coolman and the drummer Adam Nussbaum. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

A TRIBUTE TO DANNY MOORE (Tonight and tomorrow) The trumpeter Danny Moore, who died last February, was the quintessential musician's musician. Fittingly, this tribute features players with similar reputations: the tenor saxophonist George Coleman, the pianist Anthony Wonsey, the drummer Joe Farnsworth and the bassist John Webber. 9 and 11 p.m., and 12:30 a.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

JOE MORRIS TRIO WITH KEN VANDERMARK (Tuesday) Mr. Morris is a guitarist who applies the clear tone of Jim Hall to darker and pricklier purposes; he performs here with another uncompromising explorer, the multireedist Ken Vandermark, and a frequent collaborator, the drummer Luther Gray. 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover, $10. (Chinen)

* NYC JAZZ ALTERNATIVES: THE NEW GENERATION (Wednesday) This one-night mini-festival rounds up half a dozen groups from the margins of jazz culture: Gutbucket, a raucous jam band; Rashanim, an avant-garde klezmer group; Okkyung Lee, an adventurous cellist; a pair of trios led by the pianist Benny Lackner and the trombonist Jacob Garchik; and a plugged-in sextet led by the trumpeter Shane Endsley. It won't be a survey of jazz's new generation so much as a series of snapshots, intriguing and inconclusive. 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover, $12. (Chinen)

GRETCHEN PARLATO (Tonight and Monday) The lilting cadence and mellow sonority of Ms. Parlato's voice have earned her a good many casual admirers; a recent deluge of critical acclaim has more to do with her musicianship, underscored here by a deep rapport with the guitarist Lionel Loueke. Tonight at 6,, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883; no cover. Monday at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $15. (Chinen)

JEREMY PELT QUARTET (Thursday) The clarion tone and preternatural poise of Mr. Pelt's trumpet playing have earmarked him as a rising star in the jazz mainstream; as on his recent album ''Identity'' (MaxJazz), he plays here with the pianist Frank LoCrasto, the bassist Vicente Archer and the drummer Eric McPherson. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $20. (Chinen)

RE: ARRANGED: THE MUSIC OF JACO PASTORIUS, GIL EVANS, LENNON & McCARTNEY (Tuesday through Jan. 15) The sweep of this project, which clearly runs the risk of incoherence, could be a perfect challenge for the pianist and accordionist Gil Goldstein, one of the most resourceful arrangers in jazz today. Just as promising is the lineup, featuring the trumpeter Randy Brecker, the saxophonist Chris Potter, the vibraphonist Mike Mainieri, the bassist Richard Bona, the percussionist Don Alias and an improvising string trio led by the violinist Joyce Hammann. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $35 at tables, with a $5 minimum or $20 at the bar, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

* KURT ROSENWINKEL GROUP (Tuesday through Jan. 15) Mr. Rosenwinkel is almost certainly the most widely hailed jazz guitarist under 40, especially among musicians; his deeply sympathetic rapport with the tenor saxophonist Mark Turner provides the focal point of this shadowy and slippery ensemble, which also includes Aaron Goldberg on piano, Joe Martin on bass and Eric Harland on drums. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

LOREN STILLMAN QUARTET (Wednesday) With his recent album, ''It Could Be Anything'' (Fresh Sound New Talent), Mr. Stillman reinforces his reputation as an alto saxophonist with an inquisitive relationship to jazz tradition; he performs here with Jacob Sacks on piano, Scott Lee on bass and Jeff Hirschfield on drums. 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

STEVE WILSON QUARTET WITH NICHOLAS PAYTON (Through Sunday) An alto saxophonist with a dry tone but a rounded sense of phrase, Mr. Wilson recruits a well-established rhythm section -- Bruce Barth on piano, Ed Howard on bass and Adam Cruz on drums -- and locks horns with Mr. Payton, one of the outstanding trumpeters of our time. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow night, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $20 and $25. (Chinen)

Classical
Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

Opera

'L'ELISIR D'AMORE' (Tomorrow) The good news of the Met's revival of its 1991 production of Donizetti's ''Elixir of Love'' is the entrancing performance of Ruth Ann Swenson as Adina. Some opera buffs have long found Ms. Swenson's work vocally exquisite but temperamentally bland. Here she brings a breezy comic grace to the role of a wealthy young landowner in an Italian village who thinks herself immune to sentimental notions about love, until the painfully shy peasant Nemorino gets through to her. Ms. Swenson sings with her trademark creamy sound, effortful richness and impressive agility. The tenor Ramon Vargas is an ardent and endearing Nemorino. Maurizio Barbacini conducts. 1:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $42 to $220. (Anthony Tommasini)

'DIE FLEDERMAUS' (Tomorrow) Most stagings of Strauss's ever-popular operetta, including some revivals of the Met's 1986 Otto Schenk production, seem uncomfortable with the mix of silliness and cynicism in the story of playful infidelities in 1870's Vienna. But the Metropolitan Opera's current presentation boasts a winning cast of singers who, for the most part, take the story seriously and give subtle portrayals, especially Bo Skovhus as the ladies' man Eisenstein, Sondra Radvanovsky as his knowing wife, Marlis Petersen as the perky chambermaid and Earle Patriarco as the wily Dr. Falke. Jacques Lacombe conducts a lithe and fresh performance. And with the comedic actor Bill Irwin as the drunken jailor Frosch, the show has plenty of hilarity. 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $42 to $220. (Tommasini)

'H.M.S. PINAFORE,' 'THE MIKADO' (Tonight, tomorrow, Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday) The New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players are a small city institution in their own right, dedicated to presenting polished light-opera performances. Two of the most popular are this winter's fare, as well as a concert of other highlights on Thursday night. ''Pinafore,'' tonight at 8 and tomorrow at 2 p.m.; ''Mikado,'' tomorrow at 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., and Tuesday at 7 p.m.; ''Quintessential G&S'' concert, Thursday at 8 p.m., City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212; $40 to $86. (Anne Midgette)

'WOZZECK' (Tonight) Alban Berg's bleak atonal opera may not strike many people as quite the thing to usher in the New Year. But James Levine is a masterly interpreter of this musically stunning and dramatically compelling work, which he keeps bringing back to the Met in a noble effort to make ''Wozzeck'' essential to the company's repertory. With Mark Lamos's arrestingly abstract 1997 production and an inspired cast led by Alan Held in the title role, this revival should be seen by all serious opera fans. Mr. Levine elicits a searingly beautiful performance from the great Met orchestra. 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $36 to $205. (Tommasini)

Classical Music

AVALON STRING QUARTET (Thursday) This young quartet offers the first of its two ''Romantic Frontiers'' concerts (the second is on Jan. 14). The program is Beethoven's Quartet in F (Op. 59, No.1) and Schoenberg's Quartet No. 1. 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330; $20; $10 for students and 65+. (Allan Kozinn)

JUPITER SYMPHONY CHAMBER PLAYERS (Monday) In the spirit of its idiosyncratic founder, Jens Nygaard, this feisty ensemble offers programs that combine oddities and familiar works. The ensemble and its guests -- including Mikhail Kopelman, the former first violinist of the Borodin String Quartet, and his daughter, Elizaveta Kopelman, a pianist -- perform Grieg's Movement in C minor, Elgar's ''Harmony Music 5'' and a Rimsky-Korsakov piano trio. 2 and 7:30 p.m., Good Shepherd Presbyterian Church, 152 West 66th Street, Manhattan, (212) 799-1259; $10 to $25. (Kozinn)

MET ORCHESTRA (Sunday) Three realms of the soprano Renee Fleming's repertory are explored in this concert by the Met Orchestra, with James Levine conducting. She sings the ''Letter Scene'' from Tchaikovsky's ''Eugene Onegin,'' the closing scene from Strauss's ''Capriccio'' and, of special interest, the harmonically murky and expressionistic ''Altenberg Lieder'' of Alban Berg. Mr. Levine also offers performances of Tchaikovsky's ''Romeo and Juliet'' fantasy overture and Wagner's Overture and Bacchanale from ''Tannhauser.'' 3 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $46 to $155. (Tommasini)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Tonight, tomorrow, Tuesday and Thursday) The young Canadian violinist James Ehnes joins Lorin Maazel and the New York Philharmonic to play Walton's sumptuous and too rarely heard Violin Concerto at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center and at Avery Fisher Hall. On Thursday, the superb English conductor Jonathan Nott takes over, leading a program that includes Strauss's ''Alpine Symphony'' and John Corigliano's ''Red Violin,'' a 2003 concerto based on themes from Mr. Corigliano's score for the film ''The Red Violin.'' Joshua Bell, for whom the piece was composed, is the soloist. Tonight at 8, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722; $27 to $92. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $26 to $99. (Kozinn)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC ENSEMBLES (Sunday) Members of the Philharmonic have one of their periodic chamber-music gatherings in an offbeat program of Bridge, Prokofiev, Enescu, Diamond and Francaix. 3 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330; $29. (Bernard Holland)

RICHARD TUCKER FOUNDATION GALA (Wednesday) Perhaps responding to the increase of cancellations by big-name singers in past seasons, the annual Tucker gala has downsized this year, moving from Avery Fisher Hall to Alice Tully Hall and focusing less on superstars than on rising young talents. Not that they're unknown quantities: most, like Laquita Mitchell, Jennifer Aylmer, Carolyn Betty and Jordan Bisch, have active performing schedules. The master of ceremonies is Denyce Graves, while the tenor Matthew Polenzani makes a belated appearance to compensate for the fact that he couldn't attend the gala in 2004, the year he won the foundation award. 7:30 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $75 and $100. (Midgette)

Dance
Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

LORI BELILOVE & COMPANY (Opens Thursday) ''From Russia With Love,'' a program inspired by the troupe's recent tour of Russia, features dances choreographed by Isadora Duncan when that great modern-dance pioneer visited Russia early in the 20th century. (Through Jan. 14.) 7:30 p.m., Isadora Duncan Dance Foundation Studios, 141 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 691-5040, www.isadoraduncan.org; $25 in advance, $30 at the door. (Jack Anderson)

'A CELEBRATION OF JUILLIARD DANCE: THE MARTHA HILL YEARS' (Thursday) In this free anniversary program, a panel including Daniel Lewis, Dennis Nahat and Michael Uthoff will discuss the school's growth under the direction of the feisty Hill. 6 p.m., New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, Bruno Walter Auditorium, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 642-0142. (Jennifer Dunning)

DANCE CONVERSATIONS AT THE FLEA (Tuesday) This free performance and discussion series, moderated this week by John Jasperse, features Rebecca Lazier, Peter Schmitz, Tommy Noonan and Diane Vivona. 7 p.m., Flea Theater, 41 White Street, between Broadway and Church Streets, TriBeCa, (212) 226-2407, www.TheFlea.org. (Dunning)

* DANCE ON CAMERA (Today, tomorrow and Tuesday) New York's (and America's) premier festival of dance films continues at the Walter Reade Theater with varied programs through Jan. 14. The ones today at 1 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. and tomorrow at 8:30 p.m. can be especially recommended among this week's offerings. There is also a program of shorts on Sunday at 8 p.m. at the Galapagos Art Space in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and a panel discussion on Tuesday at the Donnell Media Center. Today at 1, 3:30, 6:15 and 8:30 p.m.; tomorrow at 1, 4, 6:15 and 8:30 p.m.; Tuesday at 1 and 3:30 p.m. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 496-3809, www.filmlinc.com; $10. Sunday at 8 p.m., Galapagos Art Space, 70 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 782-5188; $5. Tuesday at 6 p.m., Donnell Media Center, New York Public Library, 20 West 53d Street, Manhattan; free. Complete schedule at www.dancefilmsassn.org. (John Rockwell)

DANCE THEATER OF HARLEM OPEN HOUSE SERIES (Sunday) This month's program, ''Celebrating Dr. King's World House Vision,'' will include the guest artists Amir Vahab in a performance of Sufi music; Jean Freeman in Bharata Natyam dance; the mezzo-soprano Carolyn Sebron; and the Nai Ni Chen Dance Company. 1 and 3:30 p.m., Dance Theater of Harlem, 466 West 152nd Street, between Amsterdam and St. Nicholas Avenues, (212) 690-2800, www.dancetheatreofharlem.org; $8 for adults and $4 for children 12 and under (1 p.m. performance); and $18 for adults and $14 for children 12 and under (3:30 performance, which includes a reception).(Dunning)

ANDREA DEL CONTE DANZA ESPAnA (Thursday) Guest artists include the singer Sanghametra Chatterjee, the tabla player Dibyarka Chatterjee and the Ninos de Flamenco Performance Group. (Through Jan. 15.) 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, between Houston and Prince Streets, (212) 334-7479, www.joyce.org; $50 (opening gala and reception only). (Dunning)

FAMILY MATTERS: DANCES BY VERY YOUNG CHOREOGRAPHERS (Tonight and tomorrow) Students of Ellen Robbins will present their own dances. Tonight at 7:30; tomorrow at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, www.dtw.org; $20 for adults; $10 for children.(Dunning)

FIRST WEEKENDS NEW PERFORMANCE AND DISCUSSION SERIES (Tonight and tomorrow night) New works by Milka Djordjevich, Alicia Diaz, Jack Marion Ramirez and MOB Productions will be followed by discussions with the dancers. 8, Brooklyn Arts Exchange, 421 Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 832-0018, www.bax.org; $15; members, $10; low income, $8. (Anderson)

FULL CIRCLE (Opens Wednesday) ''Innaviews'' takes a look at the lives of hip-hop dancers. (Through Jan. 14.) 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077; $20 and $12. (Anderson)

LAVA (Tonight through Feb. 19) Sara East Johnson's ''w(HOLE)'' traces the course of cosmic evolution with the aid of dance, acrobatics and trapeze acts. Thursdays through Saturdays at 7 p.m., Sundays at 5 p.m., Flea Theater, 41 White Street, between Broadway and Church Streets, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101; $25; $15 for students and 65+. (Anderson).

EARL MOSLEY'S DIVERSITY OF DANCE INC. (Tomorrow and Sunday) A portion of the proceeds from ''More Dance, More Hope,'' a program of new works and a revival that includes the guest artists Christopher Huggins, Troy Powell and Dwana Smallwood, will go to the New Orleans Musicians Hurricane Relief Fund. 7 p.m., Martin Luther King High School Auditorium, 122 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, (347) 365-4029; $18 and $16; $10 for students and 65+ (cash only). (Dunning)

* NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Today through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) It's all ''Swan Lake'' all the time this week, except for a mixed-bill program tomorrow night. Peter Martins's version of this ornithological classic is well worth seeing, and the casts will shift throughout the run. Tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday night at 8.; tomorrow afternoon at 2; Sunday at 3 p.m.; Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570, www.nycballet.com; $30 to $86. (Rockwell)

SUNDAYS @ THREE: CALPULLI MEXICAN DANCE COMPANY (Sunday) This informal performance and discussion series will feature a young troupe performing traditional Mexican dance and music and Aztec and Spanish dance forms. 3 p.m., 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Center, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500; $10. (Dunning)

CASSIE TERMAN AND SHINICHI MOMO KOGA (Tonight and tomorrow night) Known as the Fred Astaire of Butoh, Mr. Koga will perform ''The Smallest Country,'' a program of improvised duets, with Ms. Terman, who trained in physical theater with Ruth Zaporah. 8, CRS, 123 Fourth Avenue, between 12th and 13th Streets, East Village, (212) 352-3101; $12. (Dunning)

Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

ASIA SOCIETY: 'VIETNAM: DESTINATION FOR THE NEW MILLENNIUM -- THE ART OF DINH Q. LE,' through Jan. 15. Born in Vietnam, Mr. Le moved to the United States at 11 and received a Master of Fine Arts degree from the School of Visual Arts in New York. This small exhibition presents high-concept photographic and sculptural works about the Vietnam War and its effects, as well as a pair of sleek sculptures representing communications satellites that satirize Vietnam's plans to enter the Space Age and the global consumerist economy. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400.(Ken Johnson)

BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'EDWARD BURTYNSKY: MANUFACTURED LANDSCAPES,' through Jan. 15. Large, expertly made color images by a Canadian photographer show industrial subjects like marble quarries in India, a tire dump in California and modern development in China. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000. (Johnson)

CHELSEA ART MUSEUM: 'THE BODY IMAGE IN CRISTOBAL GABARRON'S ART, 1963-2005,' through Jan. 14. A member of the mid-20th-century European Informal art movement based on mentally improvised rather than formal motifs, this Spanish artist is concerned with the body, but not in its traditional manifestations. His abstractions and semiabstractions give it a morphing, metaphysical presence; sometimes they involve the depiction of actual body parts, but they rely more on textures, colors and vague forms to evoke the body's ever-shifting sense of itself. But for all the blustery vigor on display, the work gives the viewer a powerful sense of been-there-seen-that. 556 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-0719.(Grace Glueck)

* COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'FASHION IN COLORS,' through March 26. Drawn from the collection of the Kyoto Costume Institute in Japan, this sumptuous show arranges 68 often lavish Western gowns and ensembles according to the colors of the spectrum and reinforces their progress with a posh color-coordinated installation design. For an experience of color as color, it is hard to beat, but it also says a great deal about clothing, visual perception and beauty. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400. (Roberta Smith)

INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'AFRICAN-AMERICAN VERNACULAR PHOTOGRAPHY,' through Feb. 26. These days, collectors and curators prize vernacular photographs -- commercial studio portraits, postcards, snapshots and other sorts of often anonymous photographic kitsch. Here that trend intersects with a commitment to photography as a form of social documentation in an exhibition of about 70 vernacular photographs depicting African-Americans from 1860 to 1940. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000. (Johnson)

* JAPAN SOCIETY: 'HIROSHI SUGIMOTO: HISTORY OF HISTORY,' through Feb. 19. A personal, whimsical exhibition by this well-known Japanese photographer who incorporates into his work artifacts he has collected, particularly from East Asia and Japan. Mr. Sugimoto's reach is long and his range is broad, from fossils to textiles to undersea dioramas to Japanese calligraphy to the Trylon and Perisphere (a minisculpture) that symbolized the 1939 New York World's Fair. 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155. (Glueck)

JEWISH MUSEUM: 'SARAH BERNHARDT: THE ART OF HIGH DRAMA,' through April 2. This exhibition is devoted to the flamboyant 19th-century actress whose name was once invoked by mothers as a warning to melodramatic daughters: ''Who do you think you are, Sarah Bernhardt?'' Its almost overstuffed roster of items includes original Felix Nadar photos of Bernhardt at 20 and the costumes she wore as Cleopatra and Joan of Arc. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200. (Edward Rothstein)

* METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'FRA ANGELICO,' through Jan. 29. An exhibition as rare as it is sublime brings the divine Angelico down to earth, showing how he had the best of both worlds, using the innovations of the Renaissance to parlay the radiant colors, gilded surfaces and doll-like figures of Gothic art into a final flowering. Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710. (Smith)

MET: 'DAVID MILNE: PAINTING TOWARD THE LIGHT,' through Jan 29. Watercolors by a Canadian painter little known in the United States, although he spent some 25 years in New York City and other parts of the state. In his quiet, spare renditions of urban vignettes, country landscapes, trees and domestic life, David Milne (1882-1953) focused mainly on aesthetic matters, like color, line and light, while skirting the avant-garde. (See above.) (Glueck)

* MET: ROBERT RAUSCHENBERG: 'COMBINES,' through April 2. Big and handsome almost to a fault. There's something weird about seeing once joyfully rude and over-the-top contraptions from the 1950's and 60's lined up like choirboys in church, with their ties askew and shirttails out. But even enshrined, the combines still manage to seem incredibly fresh and odd, almost otherworldly. I thought of a medieval treasury -- all the rich colors and lights and intricate details. The most beautiful tend to be the early ones: large but delicate, with a subtle, fugitive emotional pitch. (See above.) (Michael Kimmelman)

* MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: BEYOND THE VISIBLE: 'THE ART OF ODILON REDON,' through Jan. 23. The timing was off for the big Odilon Redon retrospective in Chicago in 1994. The art world's mind was on identity politics and neoconceptualism. Fin-de-siecle drawings of moony monsters and lamp-bright flowers existed on some other planet. Now there's another Redon survey, smaller, very beautiful, culminating in his lush, pixilated late paintings. And the timing for it is just right. 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400. (Holland Cotter)

MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PIXAR: 20 YEARS OF ANIMATION,' through Feb. 6. With more than 500 drawings, collages, storyboards and sculptured models by 80 artists; numerous projections; and a mesmerizing three-dimensional zoetrope, this exhibition offers a detailed glimpse of the creative and technological processes behind such computer-animation wonders as ''Toy Story,'' ''Monsters, Inc.'' and ''Finding Nemo.'' In the end, nothing has as much art or magic as these films themselves, but the concentrated effort and expertise that go into them is nonetheless something of a wonder, too. (See above.) (Smith)

EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'THE (S) FILES/THE SELECTED FILES 05,' through Jan. 29. The definition of what Latino art means is changing in a post-identity-politics time, and this modest biennial, drawn mostly from unsolicited proposals submitted by artists in the greater New York area, is an indicator of what that change looks like. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, (212) 831-7272. (Cotter)

NEUE GALERIE: 'EGON SCHIELE: THE RONALD S. LAUDER AND SERGE SABARSKY COLLECTIONS,' through Feb. 20. This extensive exhibition mostly of works on paper gives an informative account of the regrettably brief career of one of the 20th century's great draftsmen and romantic rebels. Schiele's self-portraits, drawings and watercolors of sexy young women still burn with fires of narcissistic yearning, erotic desire and bohemian dissent. 1048 Fifth Avenue, (212) 628-6200. (Johnson)

ONASSIS CULTURAL CENTER: 'FROM BYZANTIUM TO MODERN GREECE: HELLENIC ART IN ADVERSITY, 1453-1830,' through May 6. This show is a busy, ambitious hodgepodge that sets out to present all aspects of the visual art in Greece during this period. The range spans wonderful early paintings and icons, like a panel by the youthful El Greco; examples of domestic crafts practiced by Greek women; jewelry and church ornaments; and maps and charts. 645 Fifth Avenue, at 52nd Street, (212) 486-4448. (Glueck)

* RUBIN MUSEUM OF ART : 'WHAT IS IT? HIMALAYAN ART,' For a basic guide to the art of Tibet and Nepal, you will do no better than to take a slow walk through this new show, which, using an array of gorgeous objects, distills knotty visual and spiritual systems to a soothing but stimulating entry-level form. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000. (Cotter)

* STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'FREQUENCY,' through March 12. Despite some marked unevenness, this display of new and recently emerged talent confirms the current vitality of black art, contemporary art and midsize New York museums. Names to look out for include Kalup Linzy, Leslie Hewitt, Jeff Sonhouse, Shinique Amie Smith, Demetrius Oliver, Michael Paul Britto, Nick Cave, Mickalene Thomas and Michael Queenland, but don't stop there. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500. (Smith)

* WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'THE ART OF RICHARD TUTTLE,' through Feb. 5. For 40 years Richard Tuttle has murmured the ecstasies of paying close attention to the world's infinitude of tender incidents, making oddball assemblages of prosaic ephemera, which, at first glance, belie their intense deliberation and rather monumental ambition. Out of cord, tin, Styrofoam, florist's wire and bubble wrap he has devised objects whose status is not quite sculpture or drawing or painting but some combination of the three, and whose exquisiteness is akin to that of jewelry. His outstanding retrospective is a cross between a kindergarten playroom and a medieval treasury. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (800) 944-8639. (Kimmelman)

Galleries: Uptown

CHARLES BIEDERMAN: 'WORKS FROM THE 30'S' One of the most interestingly maverick and talented of between-the-wars American Modernists, Biederman left New York in 1942 for Minnesota, where he continued to make art and write art theory until his death in 2004. This small exhibition of biomorphic abstract paintings and one glossy construction of squares and knobs from the 1930's shows what an excellent student of European Surrealism and Constructivism he was. Meredith Ward, 60 East 66th Street, (212) 744-7306, through Jan. 14. (Johnson)

OSCAR BLUEMNER Known for his soulful, jewel-colored, Cubist pictures of houses in semirural locales, Bluemner remains one of the most appealing of American Modernists who were active between World Wars I and II. This substantial exhibition of works on paper extends the full-scale Bluemner retrospective now at the Whitney Museum of American Art. Barbara Mathes, 22 East 80th Street, (212) 570-4190, through Jan. 28. (Johnson)

* 'THE THIRD EYE: FANTASIES, DREAMS AND VISIONS' The ostensible theme for this dizzying, diverting assortment of 89 very high-end drawings and prints is the fantastical, visionary strain of Romanticism that persists through Symbolism right up to now. Goya gets things officially started. The show takes in contemporaries or near-contemporaries like Eva Hesse, Basquiat and Matthew Ritchie. It rambles around two floors in no particular order: a connoisseur's heaven. Richard L. Feigen & Company, 34 East 69th Street, (212) 628-0700, through Jan. 28. (Kimmelman)

Galleries: 57th Street

* SAUL LEITER: 'EARLY COLOR' In their painterly concentration on shadows, reflections, light and color, the distinctive color photographs that the fashion photographer Saul Leiter took in New York in the 1950's reform street photography by concentrating less on pedestrians than on what they might see. Howard Greenberg Gallery, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 334-0010, through Jan. 21. (Smith)

GERHARD RICHTER This celebrated German master presents two sets of paintings. One set, made in his familiar manner of squeegeeing layers of wet paint, is enigmatically punctuated by a photograph of Mr. Richter's own painting of flying fighter planes from the 1960's. The other, consisting of large canvases bearing blurry, all-gray patterns based on silicate molecules, casts a spell of visionary pessimism. Marian Goodman, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 977-7160, through Jan. 14. (Johnson)

'STRUCTURE' Hardly any artist today takes geometry as seriously as certain American Modernists did, following the lead of Mondrian in the mid-20th century. So this well-produced show of geometric relief sculptures by Ilya Bolotowsky, Nikolai Kasak and Charles Biederman, among others, comes as a nice surprise. Eli Bornstein's truly beautiful, neatly gridded constructions of floating wood blocks painted lovely confectionery colors are alone worth the trip. Forum, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212) 355-4545, through Jan. 14. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

MARINA ABRAMOVIC: 'BALKAN EROTIC EPIC' This performance artist's staged video tableaus illustrating beliefs about the magical efficacy of certain sexually charged acts are interesting and amusing but less arousing than you might have hoped. Sean Kelly, 528 West 29th Street, (212) 239-1181, through Jan. 21. (Johnson)

ELLEN ALTFEST: 'STILL LIVES' Painted from life in the studio and outside, these thoughtful images of plants, cactuses, logs and driftwood reflect old-fashioned painterly values but still manage a fresh intensity of surface, space, form and intention. Bellwether Gallery, 134 10th Avenue, near 18th Street, (212) 929-5959, through Jan. 21. (Smith)

NOBUYOSHI ARAKI, 'PAINTING FLOWER AND DIARIES' Mr. Araki is one of Japan's great photographers, but his installation of pictures of tied-up nude young women interspersed with pictures of exotic flowers garishly slathered with paint is too fashionably transgressive. Anton Kern, 532 West 20th Street, (212) 367-9663, through Jan. 14. (Johnson)

* TAMY BEN-TOR, 'EXPLORATION IN THE DOMAIN OF IDIOCY' On video -- and live on Friday and Saturday afternoons -- a wonderfully talented comic performance artist creates hilariously self-absorbed characters. Zach Feuer, 530 West 24th Street, (212) 989-7700, through Jan. 14. (Johnson)

DEBORAH BUTTERFIELD Ms. Butterfield continues to make horses out of weathered branches and scrap steel that are, at best, magically lifelike. In the big one lying down in the gallery, the metal seems just as alive as the illusory animal. Three horses on the Park Avenue median, however, are out of their element -- too delicate to compete with the traffic and the giant buildings, but perhaps because of that, poetically poignant. Edward Thorp, 210 Eleventh Avenue, between 24th and 25th Streets; and on the Park Avenue median between 52nd and 54th Streets; (212) 691-6565, through Jan. 28. (Johnson)

MIKI CARMI: 'PSYCHIC READYMADES' This young Israeli-born painter makes strangely creepy pictures of oversize bald heads based on those of elderly members of his family. He lavishes painterly attention on veins, age spots, baggy eyes, wrinkles and drooping lips, and he floats the heads like weird balloons against white backgrounds. The paintings are far from beautiful, but their unsettling impact feels right for the often confusing roles that elders play in our psychic lives. Stux, 530 West 25th Street, (212) 352-1600, through Jan. 21. (Johnson)

* ROY DE FOREST: NEW PAINTINGS At 75, this underappreciated West Coast artist, a sort of Neo-Expressionist before the fact, brings a new vehemence of color and texture, amplified by clearer compositions, to his comic-sinister universe of bright-eyed, zoned-out men and animals. George Adams, 525 West 26th Street, (212) 564-8480, through Jan. 28. (Smith)

MATTHEW MCCASLIN This inventive sculptor plays with the tension between nature and technology. A working fountain has water flowing from sunflowers made of wide showerheads and copper pipe planted in a claw-foot bathtub. And the arrangement of a cuckoo clock and a flat-screen video view of peaceful lake waters on a natural plywood wall slyly enhances the faux-rustic ambience. Sandra Gering, 534 West 22nd Street, (646) 336-7183, through Jan. 14. (Johnson)

GORDON MOORE Elegantly understated paintings animated by ghostly linear figures and their shadows, which gambol before the large-paned grid of -- well, maybe a factory window. Composed of lines of different lengths and colors and various thicknesses, these antic figures seem to vibrate on and under the paintings' lightly brushed surfaces. Mr. Moore rings many intricate variations on his basic format, which, while it commits to the visible, manages to engage the mystery of what lies beyond it. Betty Cuningham Gallery, 541 West 25th Street, (212) 242-2772, through Jan. 28. (Glueck)

NICHOLAS NIXON: 'LIFE AND TIMES' Among other photographs from the last 30 years, this show features Mr. Nixon's famous ''Brown Sisters,'' a set of group portraits of four sisters made annually, starting in 1975. It is almost painfully touching to see the beautiful siblings evolve from teenagers to late middle age. And then you begin to wonder how long this can go on before one of the five participants will no longer be available. Yossi Milo, 525 West 25th Street, (212) 414-0370, through Jan. 21. (Johnson)

* LAMAR PETERSON In a show that is transitional in a good way, this promising young artist expands his reach, taking his bright, dystopic portrayals of the American dream onto canvas and into distinctive collages that pit the hand against the camera with succinct bluntness. Fredericks & Freiser, 536 West 24th Street, (212) 633-6555, through Jan. 21. (Smith)

PAULA SCHER: 'THE MAPS' Big paintings in the form of maps of Europe, North America, Los Angeles and Long Island combine abstraction and eccentric cartography with invigorating, subtly comical verve. Maya Stendhal, 545 West 20th Street, (212) 366-1549, through Jan 21. (Johnson)

ROBERT STONE Made with a loose, watercolorlike touch, this young British artist's oil-on-canvas paintings depict enigmatic and vaguely comical scenes, like tiny Canadian Mounties having a secret funeral in the woods, or a pair of travelers in oddly mixed costumes posing with a coffin. They are just sweet and peculiar enough to give you pause. James Nicholson, 547 West 27th Street, (212) 967-5700, through Jan. 28. (Johnson)

Galleries: SoHo

MARTIN BEAUREGARD, 'SOMNAMBULIC' Old videos of absurdist performances and a new one about meditating and dreaming are eclipsed by two large stuffed-animal sculptures: a sumptuously furry teddy bear the size of a real cub made from a real bearskin, fearsome big claws and all; and a real moose head with majestic, silver-leafed antlers. Location One, 26 Greene Street, (212) 334-3347, through Feb. 4. (Johnson)

* JIM DRAIN AND ARA PETERSON: 'HYPNOGOOGIA' With a kaleidoscopic, mirrored DVD installation and multifaceted sculptures that resemble gaudy, 12-foot-high soccer balls, two of contemporary art's most interesting collaborators have masterminded a kind of wonderland of digital and analog psychedelia. The best piece is best experienced by descending on a ladder into a kind of rabbit hole. The total effect is amazing, if a little vacant. Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 343-7300, through Jan. 28. (Smith)

SUZAN FRECON An accomplished abstract painter presents a serene installation of six large works -- three grid-based and three featuring simple, curvy shapes -- all in deep, rich reds, blues and greens. Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street, (212) 343-0441, through Jan. 14. (Johnson) Other Galleries

'MONUMENTS FOR THE USA' The critic Ralph Rugoff invited more than 50 artists to submit proposals for a never-to-be-built national monument. All the proposals, mostly illustrative works on paper ranging in spirit from scathingly critical to earnestly visionary, are presented by this entertaining if not especially profound exhibition. White Columns, 320 West 13th Street, West Village, (212) 924-4212, through Jan. 28. (Johnson)

Last Chance

ABETZ/DRESCHER The Berlin-based collaborators Maike Abetz and Oliver Drescher paint large, busily detailed pictures of Renaissance ruins densely populated by fashion models, broken guitars, televisions and naked figures from pagan myth in a style you might call psychedelic pre-Raphaelite. Though not impressive formally or technically, they do capture a certain wildly eclectic and deeply narcissistic state of youthful consciousness. Goff & Rosenthal, 537B West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212) 675-0461, closing tomorrow. (Johnson)

* GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'RUSSIA!' This survey of nine centuries of Russian art ranges from 13th-century religious icons to a smattering of 21st-century works, achieving its astounding effect without resorting to a single egg, or anything else, by Faberge. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3600, closing Wednesday. (Smith)

* FRANCO MONDINI-RUIZ: QUATTROCENTO In a bit of performative art-making that sends up art-world preciousness with intimations of tourist souvenirs, the 400 paintings here are seductive, portable, priced to sell ($400) and sometimes made on the spot. Also good, at Envoy, a gallery that shares the Taylor space, is the New York debut of Nils Erik Gjerdevik, a young Norwegian artist who cannibalizes snippets from Art Nouveau to graffiti into playfully calligraphic designs. Frederieke Taylor Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (646) 230-0992; Envoy, (212) 242-7524; both closing tomorrow. (Smith)

* MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'ELIZABETH MURRAY' Here is the complete range of shape-shifting, dizzily colored pictures that Elizabeth Murray has produced over four decades. The colors are noisy, the harmonies pungent, the scale big and bold. While art-world fashion has drifted here and there, Ms. Murray has stuck to her craft, with all its difficulties and at the occasional cost of failure and neglect. Her show is a meaty, openhearted, eye-popping event. (See above.) Closing Monday. (Kimmelman)

* THE MUSEUM FOR AFRICAN ART: 'LASTING FOUNDATIONS: THE ART OF ARCHITECTURE IN AFRICA' Like most architectural shows, this one uses lots of photographs and texts, and more than many, it also incorporates objects: Dogon door locks from Mali; carved Igbo doors from Nigeria; Swahili window frames, rich with Indian and Islamic motifs, from Kenya. World Financial Center Courtyard Gallery, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (718) 784-7700, closing today. (Cotter)

ANNYSA NG: 'LOVE & FEAR' A beautiful new gallery occupying two floors of a tiny brick house presents works of postmodernist faux-antiquity by a Chinese artist who has studied in Hong Kong, New York and Germany. The large, Victorian-style silhouettes are not without possibilities, though perhaps they are too Kara Walker-like; the hanging assemblages made of braided hair, fabric and found objects have an erotically stirring poetic delicacy. Holasek Weir, 502 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 367-9093, closing Tuesday. (Johnson)

RICHARD POUSETTE-DART: 'PRESENCES: THE IMPLODING OF COLOR' Though routinely associated with Abstract Expressionists, Pousette-Dart had metaphysical and symbolist interests that distinguished him from better-known members of that group. In the 1960's and 70's, he turned to what you could call Pointillist Color Field Painting, and though the sensuous impact of light, color and thickly stippled paint is strongly asserted, the works are also animated by intimations of cosmic mysticism. Knoedler, 19 East 70th Street, (212) 794-0550, closing tomorrow. (Johnson)

'RUSSIA 2: BAD NEWS FROM RUSSIA' An entertaining, congested and abrasive exhibition presents stridently and antically political contemporary works by 15 individuals and groups who live and work in Russia. White Box, 525 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 714-2347; and the Annex, 601 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (646) 638-3785; closing Wednesday. (Johnson)

FELIX SCHRAMM: 'COMBER' It looks as if a tornado ripped parts off an ordinary house and slammed them into the gallery, creating a Cubist-Expressionist-style environment that was, in fact, carefully designed and assembled by this young and innovative German sculptor. Grimm/Rosenfeld, 530 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 352-2388, closing tomorrow. (Johnson)

GRAPHIC: Photos: POP -- Left, Diplo, the Philadelphia D.J. who explores hip-hop's global permutations, weaving rap and new wave with dancehall and Brazilian baille funk, visits the Guggenheim, Page 26.
ART -- Right, ''New York, Harlem'' is on view in ''Early Color,'' an exhibition of works by the fashion photographer Saul Leiter at the Howard Greenberg Gallery, Page 28.
CLASSICAL MUSIC -- Below, ''Die Fledermaus,'' Strauss's ever-popular opera about playful infidelities in the 1870's, features a fine cast of singers in the Met's current production, Page 27. (Photo by Nick Barat)
(Photo by Saul Leiter/Courtesy Howard Greenberg Gallery)
 (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); WOMEN (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); FILM (77%); FAMILY (73%); THEATER COMPANIES (72%); POETRY (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); THEATER (58%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SPAIN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



100 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: MILITARY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Facing Hurdles, U.S. General Warns

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: CAMP VICTORY, Iraq, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
The top American operational commander in Iraq has offered a sober assessment of the hurdles facing a new Iraqi government, voicing concerns that sectarian rivalries and incompetence could cripple major ministries and turn newly American-trained Iraqi security forces into militias for hire. 
 The commander, Lt. Gen. John R. Vines of the Army, warned in an interview on Wednesday that the development of the Defense and Interior Ministries that sustain Iraqi security forces lags behind the fielding and prowess of more than 220,000 Iraqi soldiers and police officers. 
 ''The ability of the ministries to support them, to pay them, to resupply them, provide them with water, ammunition, spare parts and weapons is not as advanced as the competence of the forces in the field,'' General Vines said at his headquarters here outside of Baghdad, as a new wave of violence gripped Iraq this week. ''We must make significant progress in that area before they can conduct independent operations.'' 
 General Vines cautioned that other important ministries, like oil and electricity, must also strengthen their operations for the security forces to succeed -- and for Iraq to prosper politically and economically. 
 ''The reason it's important to look at areas like governance and infrastructure is because oil is the lifeblood of Iraq,'' said General Vines, who commands the XVIII Airborne Corps at Fort Bragg, N.C. ''If they don't produce enough income to support their security forces, members of those forces could turn to ulterior purposes and could become militias or armed gangs.'' 
 The comments by General Vines, who formerly commanded Special Operations Forces in Somalia and all American troops in Afghanistan, offer perhaps the bluntest public assessment yet by a senior military officer about the challenges facing the American-led military coalition and the fledgling Iraqi government in the coming months. 
 General Vines cited a string of notable successes over the past year, including the building of the Iraqi security forces into a growing number of units that are taking the lead in securing the country and successfully holding two elections and one referendum in 2005. 
 But he also warned of potential trouble in the weeks and months ahead, as Sunni Arabs look to a Shiite-dominated government for signs that their voices and needs will be addressed. 
 General Vines said the fact that Iraqis voted in such large numbers on Dec. 15 was uplifting, but he lamented that the balloting broke down largely along religious and ethnic lines. ''The vote is reported to be primarily along sectarian lines, which is not particularly heartening,'' he said. ''There was enormous enthusiasm for the election. But it must be a government by and for Iraqis, not sects. I don't think we can know that yet.'' 
 General Vines said it is too soon to gauge how well Sunni Arabs, Shiites and Kurds will succeed in forging an inclusive government that protects all citizens of Iraq. ''As the government forms, if we see indicators that there are purges of competent people to be replaced with ideologues in the security ministries, that would be disturbing,'' he said. ''If competent commanders were to be replaced by those whose main qualification is an allegiance to a sect, that would be of concern to us.''
 At the urging of American commanders and civilian officials, the Iraqi Ministry of Defense has stepped up the recruiting of Sunni Arabs to serve in an army that is now dominated largely by Shiite and Kurdish soldiers. ''The M.O.D. must continue to be perceived as a force that protects the population, as opposed to oppressing it,'' General Vines said. ''This is a reason we're watching what happens at the M.O.D. very carefully.'' 
 As the operational commander for more than 150,000 American troops and 20,000 coalition forces, General Vines has day-to-day oversight, along with his Iraqi counterparts, over what troops here call the battle space around the country. 
 In the past several months, General Vines said that the flow of foreign fighters infiltrating Iraq had diminished in part because of nearly 20,000 Iraqi forces now stationed in restive Anbar Province, a series of American military operation in the Euphrates River Valley and increased cooperation from Syria and Saudi Arabia in tightening border controls. 
 In the weeks leading up to the December election, however, General Vines differed with his boss, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the overall American commander in Iraq, over how and where to assign troops to ensure a peaceful and successful balloting. 
 According to interviews with several senior Army officers, who were granted anonymity because their bosses' discussions were confidential, General Casey wanted to build up operations along the border between Iraq and Syria, as well as the Euphrates River Valley, to make it harder for suicide bombers to infiltrate and explode themselves in Baghdad during the elections. 
 But General Vines and his field commanders said the center of gravity was Baghdad and its predominantly Sunni suburbs like Falluja, the officers said. General Vines wanted to position more forces there to increase the Sunni turnout, a major political goal of the Bush administration but also a means to help reduce the insurgency. 
 The two commanders eventually worked out a compromise to put troops in both places, the senior officers said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about a warning by Lt. Gen. John R. Vines, the top American operational commander in Iraq, that the country still faces major obstacles misstated his earlier role in Somalia. He was a staff officer, not the commander of Special Operations Forces.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ARMIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REFERENDUMS (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Eric Schmitt; John R (Lt Gen) Vines

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SOMALIA (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



101 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Biotech Plan In Missouri Suffers Setback

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
A California-based company specializing in plant-made pharmaceuticals has pulled out of an agreement to move its operations to northwest Missouri, where it was to have produced proteins from genetically modified rice.
 The company, Ventria Bioscience, planned to extract the proteins at a plant under construction at Northwest Missouri State University. The proteins, normally found in human saliva, milk and tears, could be refined for use in medicines to fight diarrhea, dehydration and other conditions.
But delays in the approval of funding by the Missouri state legislature led Ventria to terminate its agreement to move its operations to Northwest Missouri State, which is in Maryville, about 90 miles north of Kansas City. Ground was broken for the plant last summer. 
 Ventria, a privately held company based in Sacramento, said in a joint statement with the university that its business objectives required having ''processing facilities in place sooner than possible'' for the Missouri Center of Excellence for Plant Biologics, the new plant at the university. Ventria officials declined to comment further.
 Dean L. Hubbard, president of Northwest Missouri State, said in an interview that demand for Ventria's proteins had grown faster than expected, leading the company to move up by a year its timeline for construction of a processing plant. ''They needed it sooner than we believed we could possibly design and build it, even if we had the money,'' Dr. Hubbard said.
 Legislative concern over the deal delayed a $10 million state contribution in the original proposal to build a $23 million 60,000-square-foot plant. In December, the university scaled back the project to $12.4 million by reducing the size of an academic building. To try to meet Ventria's needs, the university also discussed with farmers the formation of a separate company or a co-op that would own and operate the extraction plant. 
 Ventria's decision is a potential blow to Missouri since the university wanted to use the company as an anchor tenant in a project intended to help stimulate the sagging rural economy. Ventria had agreed to pay farmers as much as twice what they would normally earn to grow genetically modified rice.
 Dr. Hubbard said Ventria's withdrawal could also be a setback for efforts in the United States to produce pharmaceuticals derived from plants. Ventria has faced opposition from some environmental groups and from Anheuser-Busch, the beer company, over worries on possible health effects from genetically engineered crops. Anheuser-Busch pressed Ventria to drop plans to grow rice in southern Missouri, leading Ventria to try to grow it in northern Missouri, where the growing season is considered too short for rice. 
 So far, the rice-growing efforts have been successful; 12 of 14 varieties of conventional rice tested at three plots this year produced a crop. ''So, we can grow rice in north Missouri; so, hopefully they will choose to do that,'' Dr. Hubbard said.
 Missouri's governor and the legislature remain interested in luring Ventria to the state. ''This is an emerging industry that will be great for farmers,'' said David G. Klindt, a Missouri state senator.
 But Ventria is growing rice in North Carolina, and other states have expressed interest in the financial rewards that could come from the emerging technology.
 Dr. Hubbard said construction of the center would go on, with the university seeking tenants. So far, Edenspace Systems, a privately held biotechnology company based in Dulles, Va., has said it will move its bio-fuels operation to the university.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rice grown last summer for Ventria Bioscience, which said it would not be relocating to a plant at Northwest Missouri State University after all. (Photo by Chris Cummins for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); RICE FARMING (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (78%); BOTANY (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (62%); BREWERIES (60%) Medicine and Health; Relocation of Business; Proteins; Genetics and Heredity; Rice; Research; Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Grain

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Ventria Bioscience; Ventria Bioscience; Northwest Missouri State University

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (51%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (51%)

PERSON: Alexei Barrionuevo

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (73%) MISSOURI, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%) Missouri

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



102 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Yet Another Victim of Katrina; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1842 words

HEADLINE: Federal Flood Insurance Program Is Itself Under Water

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER and CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
Finley Williford, the captain of a repair ship working in the Gulf of Mexico, is making plans to rebuild his Mississippi coast home, which was destroyed by the high winds and flooding of Hurricane Katrina. Most of the money is going to come from a federal flood insurance program that was begun nearly 40 years ago. He already has a check for $93,500.
 ''I haven't heard too many good stories about insurance,'' Mr. Williford said, ''but it seems like flood is paying off.''
For Mr. Williford, it certainly is. But the flood insurance program itself is in trouble. 
 It has been run deeply into the red by about $23 billion in claims from policyholders like Mr. Williford even as it has failed to help most victims of the hurricane. Officials have turned to Congress for a bailout that the government program will never be able to pay even as it faces mounting calls to be drastically overhauled or even eliminated. 
 ''The flood insurance program is broken,'' said Senator Richard C. Shelby, an Alabama Republican who heads the Banking Committee, which has oversight over the program. ''We've got to make major changes.''
 Modifying the program is not enough for Representative Wayne T. Gilchrest, a Maryland Republican whose district spans the state's Eastern Shore from the Atlantic Ocean to the Chesapeake Bay. Mr. Gilchrest, the chairman of the House subcommittee on fisheries, conservation, wildlife and oceans, says the flood insurance program encourages people to put themselves in harm's way by building on the water's edge, in the expectation that the federal government will bail them out.
 ''We need to eliminate incentives for people to move in to flood-prone areas, whether it's on the banks of the Mississippi River or the coast of Maryland or wherever,'' he said. He called the program ''a huge burden that is only going to get worse.''
 In the program's defense, David I. Maurstad, the acting director of the flood insurance program, agreed that the government needed to make changes, but argued that talk of ending national flood insurance was an over-reaction. Katrina was ''the greatest natural disaster in the history of this country,'' he said. ''It would not be fair to evaluate the effectiveness of this program on just the past three months.''
 ''Does the program provide a benefit that the federal government ought to provide to the country?'' he asked. ''I come down on the side of a very definite yes.''
 The flood insurance program was created in 1968 to solve several problems in a single stroke. The government agreed to offer coverage that private insurers refused to sell, thus helping people recover from floods. Insurance premiums went into a pool to cover losses that otherwise might be paid by taxes from across the country.
 With an eye toward lowering relief costs over the long run, the government, in exchange for the insurance, moved to require waterfront communities to adopt building codes to make homes less vulnerable to flooding. The government also created flood plain maps, now being revised in the wake of the storm, to show degrees of danger.
 But the program has not worked as planned.
 It was supposed to be self-supporting, but for the first 16 years, Congress paid its bills. Now, as it confronts the nation's worst flooding, the program, which is administered by the troubled Federal Emergency Management Agency, finds itself with too few customers and too small a pool of money to pay its obligations. 
 To get people to sign up, the government offered the insurance at below-market prices. But most of those who stood to benefit shrugged at the potential risk anyway. ''People say, 'It's not going to happen to me; I'll never need flood insurance,' '' said Robert Rusboldt, chief executive of the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America, a trade group with members that sell flood policies. 
 When Katrina struck, about 4.6 million homes and some businesses around the country were covered, fewer than half of the properties in danger of flooding, officials estimate. Those who bought the coverage were those most likely to be flooded -- which is why private insurers wanted no part of the business. 
 Some people turned down flood insurance in the belief that the government would take care of them in a disaster, insurance experts say. In December, Congress seemed to buttress that belief by voting to give some homeowners without flood coverage up to $150,000 to rebuild.
 But most coastal residents will not qualify for those grants. Instead, families with poor credit ratings -- often those with low incomes -- are eligible for up to $27,100 in federal assistance. Those who demonstrate an ability to repay a loan may borrow up to $200,000 to repair or rebuild a home at an annual interest rate of 2.6 percent. 
 The gap in coverage is huge. Federal officials say they have received 227,550 claims from flood insurance policyholders in Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, Florida and Alabama and do not expect many more. But the Louisiana Recovery Authority reported in December that nearly 500,000 homes were destroyed or damaged in Louisiana and Mississippi alone. The federal program has paid out $11.1 billion to victims of the hurricane flooding.
 Nearly everyone had home insurance and the private insurers say they expect to pay about $40 billion in claims from Hurricane Katrina alone -- the most they have ever paid in a single hurricane. 
 They insist that their home insurance policies, which account for about $17 billion in losses, rule out flood coverage. But with so many people without money to rebuild, the attorney general of Mississippi and several private lawyers are contending in lawsuits that the policies contain ambiguities that should be resolved in favor of homeowners. 
 The flood insurance program has succeeded in getting most waterfront communities to agree to its building codes and it estimates that the safer standards save the country $1.1 billion in flood damage annually. But consumer advocates and environmental experts say that enforcement is not uniform and that the existence of the insurance has contributed to an explosion of risky coastal development.
 Even some supporters of the program link flood insurance and coastal building. ''If it's not available, if you can't cover your million-dollar house on a sand dune, you don't build your million-dollar house,'' said Julie Rochman, a spokeswoman for the American Insurance Association, a trade group in Washington.
 For Mr. Maurstad, the flood insurance acting director, coastal development is as inevitable as the tides. Coastal areas ''catch people's fancy,'' he said. ''Those areas are going to be developed,'' with or without federal insurance. 
 With weather experts predicting more frequent and stronger coastal storms, Congress is expected to focus soon on trying to reshape the flood program. Senator Shelby and others are proposing to expand the program's reach to include millions more property owners, making the purchase of flood insurance mandatory for everyone in prescribed danger zones and sharply raising prices.
 ''The taxpayer shouldn't, in my opinion, subsidize everything, especially vacation homes, at below-market rates,'' Senator Shelby said.
 Flood insurance is now required for anyone getting a mortgage from a federal agency or a federally regulated lender and living in certain designated flood-prone areas. That is why Mr. Williford bought his policy.
 ''It cost me $300,'' he said, for $187,000 in insurance on his three-bedroom home in Bay St. Louis and $15,000 on the contents. The government offers a maximum of $250,000 in coverage for an average annual premium of $486, almost 40 percent less than the average cost of $250,000 in standard home insurance.
 Mr. Williford paid more than $1,300 a year for his homeowner policy. His insurance company is arguing that all his damage came from flooding and is refusing to pay him anything for wind damage. ''I had pine trees snapped off 50 feet in the air and laying on top of my house,'' he said. ''Water didn't do that.''
 A keystone of the flood program was the creation of maps that delineated danger zones. The maps were supposed to be updated at least every three to five years. But many of the Gulf Coast maps were 10 to 20 years out of date when Hurricane Katrina hit. During that time, new roads, parking lots, homes and businesses had transformed the landscape, causing floodwaters to rise higher and extend much further inland than indicated on the maps. 
 ''The flood plain is like a bathtub,'' said J. Robert Hunter, the director of insurance at the Consumer Federation of America and one of the early chiefs of the federal flood insurance program. ''You put a bunch of buildings in the flood plain and the water level goes up. It's just like somebody sitting down in a bathtub.''
 Because the maps were integral to setting premiums, the coverage was further underpriced. Draft legislation being considered by Congress calls for spending $2.6 billion over the next six years to update flood maps, but any changes are bound to stir a political hornet's nest.
 ''A lot of areas that flooded this year were not supposed to flood,'' Mr. Shelby said. ''They weren't in designated areas. A lot of people who have not bought flood insurance realize now that they need it and needed it all along.''
 By last year, the flood insurance program had paid policyholders $15 billion in claims, some of which would otherwise have come out of tax money. 
 But over all, the flood insurance program has been paying a relatively small proportion of the nation's costs for flood recovery. In two of the most costly disaster years, the gap was especially wide. 
 In 1994, the insurance program paid out $411 million, compared with an estimated outlay of $6.59 billion for other flood disaster relief, much of it to restore roads, bridges and public buildings. In 2001, the insurance program paid $1.27 billion while the government paid another estimated $8.97 billion for flood damage.
 FEMA is so far expecting to spend about $66 billion for disaster relief related to Katrina and the other hurricanes last year, most of it for flood damage. The flood program has swung in and out of debt over the last two decades. But it had paid back its borrowing with interest and was running a surplus until four hurricanes hit Florida in 2004.
 Unlike most insurance operations, the federal flood program does not charge enough to create a reserve or cushion to pay for periodic catastrophes. To develop an adequate reserve, some experts say, might require doubling or tripling rates. That would be politically difficult at best.
 Without a reserve, however, the program threatens to remain a huge, undefined national liability and to erupt into a drain on taxpayers at any moment. ''Part of running an insurance company,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York, ''is knowing you're going to have exceptional years and building up a reserve to handle that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Finley Williford's boat, in a canal next to his home in Bay St. Louis, Miss., survived Katrina, but his home, behind him, did not. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
The Williford home before it was destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. Mr. Williford has already received an insurance check for $93,500.
 Mr. Williford and his family have lived in Waveland, Miss., in a trailer supplied by FEMA since their home was destroyed by the hurricane. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. C6)Chart: ''Flooded and Uninsured''Maps of the flood zones along the Mississippi Gulf Coast have been updated irregularly by FEMA. The dark orange on the map shows where flooding from Katrina occurred beyond the flood plain, the area designated for flood insurance coverage.Map shows Gulf Coast. (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (92%); FLOOD INSURANCE (92%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); INSURANCE (77%); FLOOD ZONES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (68%); FISHERIES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Hurricane Katrina; Finances; Floods; Insurance; Weather; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: WAYNE T GILCHREST (77%) Joseph B Treaster; Cornelia Dean; Richard C (Sen) Shelby; Wayne (Repr) Gilchrest; David I Maurstad

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; Mississippi; Alabama; Louisiana; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



103 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Coal's Power Over Politicians

 BODY:
As inspectors delve into the deadly mine disaster in Sago, W.Va., their starting premise must be that the explosion that choked off 12 workers' lives would never have happened if all the safety rules now on the books had been properly enforced. Mining regulations born of decades of death and disaster dictate in detail the most basic protections for survival, like adequate ventilation and roof supports. 
 Yet full enforcement was clearly lacking at the Sago mine, with its long record of chronic violations and an injury rate almost triple the average for similar mines. Federal officials claim that the mine was adequately monitored.
But in accounting for the deaths, inspectors should look as well into the budget cutbacks and staff attrition that have marked the Bush administration's management of its own ranks in the Mine Safety and Health Administration. The latest budget imposes a $4.9 million cut for the safety agency, according to Congressional critics who estimate that the agency has suffered a reduction of 170 positions in the past five years.
 The ensuing government laxity -- and the increasing risks that miners take to get their hard-earned wages -- were underlined three years ago by the Government Accountability Office in a study of 10 years of work by the mine safety administration, a period covering the management records of both Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. It warned of the looming retirements of qualified inspectors, and the failure to follow up adequately on nearly half of the violations found. Rather than turning this around, the Bush administration's main attention to the coal industry has been to appoint a raft of political appointees directly from energy corporations to critical regulatory posts.
 For better or worse, coal is ever a prime economic resource for West Virginia -- a lodestone for corporations, and still a millstone for too many miners. This has been true through the political ages, right up through the powerful reign of the state's Democratic favorite son, Senator Robert Byrd, who has packed West Virginia with highway projects and other pork-barrel goodies that have somehow failed to securely touch the lives of the long-suffering coal miners. We hope for fresh orations from the gifted senator on behalf of the threats to his constituent miners, with an eloquence to match his speeches on behalf of the soldiers at risk in Iraq, coupled with the judicious use of his legendary political prowess to restore the money cut from the mine safety budget and to help make other needed reforms. 
 It is hardly enough to say that coal mining, while inherently dangerous, has taken fewer lives across the decades. Even statistically, never mind morally, the 12 lives lost at Sago are startling in a state that had more than 120,000 miners a half-century ago but is now down to fewer than 14,000 in an age of greater mining mechanization. What is constant is the demand for coal, with companies zeroing in to work the most from marginal mines like Sago. And what is constant, too, is a shocking loss like the Sago 12, who might have survived if government had lived up to its responsibilities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINE SAFETY REGULATION (91%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (90%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COAL MINING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET CUTS (88%); POLITICS (86%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); MINE WORKERS (78%); MINING REGULATION & POLICY (78%); ACCOUNTING (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (69%); COAL INDUSTRY (69%); RANKINGS (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Coal; Editorials; Explosions; Accidents and Safety; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: MINE SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (83%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%) Mine Safety and Health Administration

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (71%); ROBERT BYRD (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) Sago (West Va); United States

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



104 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Nuclear Team Fails to Keep a Date With the U.N. 

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
Iran threw negotiations over its nuclear program into disarray on Thursday, abruptly canceling a high-level meeting with the United Nations' monitoring agency in Vienna. The leader of Iran's negotiating team was said to be returning to Tehran.
 The unexpected turn of events stunned and frustrated officials of the International Atomic Energy Agency and foreign diplomats, who scrambled to make sense of Iran's decision. The meeting had been scheduled so Iran could explain its decision to restart nuclear research and development on Monday. 
 ''There was no explanation,'' said Melissa Fleming, a spokeswoman for the agency. ''We're still seeking clarification.''
 One possible explanation is that Iran has decided to defy the rest of the world and plunge ahead with nuclear activities, which risk international censure or sanctions and could shatter a 14-month agreement with France, Britain and Germany under which Iran agreed to suspend most of its nuclear work. 
 Another explanation is that in the face of strong international criticism, Iran's negotiating strategy is in chaos. Since President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad took power last year in Iran, officials who were part of its national security apparatus, including its nuclear negotiating team, have been replaced with people who are driven by hard-line views. 
 Certainly Iran's failure to explain its intentions erodes trust in the country as a reliable negotiating partner. In its letter to the atomic energy agency two days earlier announcing its research plans, Iran gave assurances that it intended to carry out the work under the supervision of agency inspectors, and asked the agency to take the necessary steps for the research to start again.
 That position raised speculation that Iran was trying to test whether it could proceed with its nuclear program and stay within the boundaries of its international legal obligations, even if that violated its agreement with the Europeans.
 In an address in Qum carried on state television on Thursday, Mr. Ahmadinejad repeated his assertions of Iran's intention to carry out nuclear research, saying some people ''have said the Iranian nation has no right to nuclear research, but they should know that the Iranian nation and government will defend the right to nuclear research and technology, and will go forward prudently.''
 The negotiating team, led by Mohammad Saeedi, the deputy chief of Iran's atomic energy agency, had been expected to meet at 10 a.m. on Thursday with the director of the United Nations agency. 
 At first, the Iranians said in a telephone conversation that they would be late. Then, in a later telephone call, they canceled the meeting. Mr. Saeedi was returning home, the Iranian delegation told the agency.
 That move suggested that there would be no explanation of Iran's intentions before it resumes its research on Monday. 
 American and European officials and some experts at the atomic energy agency said they were concerned that the research could focus on small-scale enrichment experiments, which could help advance Iran's knowledge about how to produce nuclear fuel -- either for civilian plants or, at higher enrichment levels, for weapons.
 In Washington on Thursday, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice warned Iran not to resume nuclear research, saying, ''They shouldn't do it because it would really be a sign that they are not prepared to actually make diplomacy work.''
 She expressed confidence that the United States would succeed in taking Iran's case to the Security Council for an unspecified punishment should negotiations fail. However, the United States has thus far failed to persuade Russia and China to seek punitive measures, a difficult step because there is no clear-cut violation of Iran's obligations under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.
 Iran's decision in August to restart uranium conversation activities in Isfahan violated the European agreement. But inspectors from the United Nations agency were there to break the seals on the equipment and have been monitoring the activities, which do not violate Iran's obligations under the treaty.
 One official close to the talks said the Iranians were believed to have withdrawn because they had been caught off-guard by the uncompromising stance of Mohamed ElBaradei, the agency's director, in messages and in a meeting on Wednesday with Iran's ambassador to the United Nations office in Vienna, Mohammad Mehdi Akhondzadeh.
 The official declined to be identified by name or even national origin because the official is not authorized to speak for attribution.
 Dr. ElBaradei and his colleagues have harshly criticized Iran's decision to restart nuclear research, warning Iran of potential consequences of its action.
 Among the issues outstanding are Iran's refusal to allow inspectors access to a site in Tehran called Lavisan-Shian, which was bulldozed by Iran in 2004 before it could be inspected. The agency wants to interview scientists who worked there and determine whether they were conducting nuclear research.
 Another mystery is how Iran first obtained centrifuges used to enrich uranium. The agency is also still not convinced by Iran's explanations about the sources of both low- and high-enriched uranium found in Iran.
 The Iranian delegation was apparently unprepared to respond to questions like these on Thursday, the official close to the talks said.
 A number of Iranian officials, including President Ahmadinejad, have boldly asserted Iran's right to conduct nuclear research and its intention to proceed as scheduled, despite warnings from that to do so would risk punitive measures.
 Iran's right to develop nuclear technology for peaceful energy purposes is extremely popular in Iran, and the president's remarks on Thursday were greeted with cries of ''Ahmadinejad, our hero, we support you,'' Reuters reported from Tehran.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%) Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%) International Atomic Energy Agency; United Nations

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (79%) Elaine Sciolino; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%); QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (59%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAN (74%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) Iran; France; Great Britain; Germany; Iran

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



105 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Bush Proposes Broader Language Training

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
The Bush administration on Thursday proposed spending $114 million on educational programs to expand the teaching of Arabic, Chinese, Farsi and other languages typically not taught in public schools.
 Speaking to more than 100 college and university presidents attending a two-day conference at the State Department, President Bush said the effort would play a critical role in national security and lead to American students' gaining a better understanding of foreign cultures.
''In order to convince people we care about them, we've got to understand their culture and show them we care about their culture,'' Mr. Bush said. ''You know, when somebody comes to me and speaks Texan, I know they appreciate the Texas culture. When somebody takes time to figure out how to speak Arabic, it means they're interested in somebody else's culture.'' 
 The administration invited the presidents to discuss issues that affect American college students studying abroad, the number of whom has steadily increased each year, and foreign students attending American universities, whose numbers declined over the last two academic years after nearly five decades of steady gains. 
 While the conference agenda calls for discussion of visa requirements and how to compete in a global economy, Mr. Bush focused on the need to produce more students capable of speaking foreign languages as a key component of national security.
 ''We need intelligence officers who, when somebody says something in Arabic or Farsi or Urdu, know what they're talking about,'' he said. 
 Robert Birgeneau, chancellor of the University of California, Berkeley, said he was among presidents in Washington last year discussing similar issues with the Central Intelligence Agency. He said he left that meeting with the understanding that ''their needs are desperate.''
 Mr. Birgeneau said that he appreciated the administration's efforts but that, for university presidents, language training for the government is ''not our central focus.'' 
 Mr. Bush said the administration was ''recalibrating the proper balance'' between national security and the eagerness of universities to increase the number of foreign students, one of his few points that drew hearty applause. 
 Many school officials blame a tightening of restrictions after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, for driving away foreign students. 
 Nina Powell, the assistant secretary of state for education and cultural affairs, told reporters that the process had improved and that 97 percent of applicants now get visas ''within a couple of days.'' 
 The administration's language proposal, known as the National Security Language Initiative, would create several new programs and build on others, including a Pentagon effort begun three years ago to increase the number of military personnel fluent in languages and familiar with customs in developing nations.
 Barry Lowenkron, the assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights and labor, said a few of the programs might include a commitment to work for the government or the military. ''But it's not like a draft,'' he said, adding: ''We're not setting goals to have X number of people in Y years. The goal is to start building capacity.''
 He said that only 44 percent of American high school students were studying any foreign language and that 70 percent of those were learning Spanish. Ms. Powell said that by comparison, the nation had only 2,000 Chinese language grade-school teachers. 
 Margaret Spellings, the education secretary, said in an interview that efforts to teach such languages as Chinese and Arabic to children as young as 5 were brand new. ''We don't know how to do it. This whole notion is in its infancy. But our hope is this is a start, and we can build on it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Condoleezza Rice, Donald H. Rumsfeld and Margaret Spellings during President Bush's speech yesterday to college and university presidents. (Photo by Jay L. Clendenin/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (90%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); TERRORISM (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); MARGARET SPELLINGS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2006



106 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA: ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Wendy's Returns 99? to Its Place on the Price Pedestal 

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
AS the new year begins, consumers who spent copiously during the holidays are watching their pennies. That is why fast-food chains usually step up campaigns for their lower-priced menu items in January -- spending more to attract consumers seeking to spend less.
 Already, 2006 is a banner year for so-called value menus, with items typically priced at 99 cents or a dollar, at quick-service restaurants. Wendy's International is restoring a Super Value Menu it has offered since 1989 by undoing changes that took effect last June; those included raising the prices of some products like a Junior Bacon Cheeseburger to $1.29 from 99 cents. 
Wendy's restaurants are festooned with signs, banners and stickers to promote the Super Value Menu. And humorous television commercials that proclaim, ''Do Wendy's and for 99 cents, do what tastes right,'' have been running since Dec. 28.
 The commercials, scheduled to appear through early February, show consumers expressing prices of everyday items in terms of the Super Value Menu. For instance, in one spot, a driver caught speeding looks at the ticket and exclaims, ''Seventy-five Junior Bacon Cheeseburgers?!'' The commercials are by McCann Erickson Worldwide in New York, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Also, a principal Wendy's competitor, Burger King, is readying a national rollout of a lower-priced menu, tested for the last year and a half in markets like Southern California and Texas under the name BK Value Menu. The tests have featured items like a Whopper Jr. and Chicken Tenders for $1 each.
 The Burger King agency, Crispin Porter & Bogusky in Miami, part of MDC Partners, is working on a campaign to help introduce the value menu, which may come as soon as next month.
 The focus on lower-priced fare is part of a trend that is changing the way marketers hawk their wares to consumers. After years of playing up their higher-priced offerings, advertisers like Procter & Gamble and SABMiller are aiming campaigns at budget-minded shoppers -- who, in these days of high prices for homes, gas, oil and gasoline, may be just about everyone who is not on the Forbes 400.
 ''The reality of the economy'' factors into the decision by Wendy's to restore the Super Value Menu, said Ian Rowden, executive vice president for marketing at Wendy's in Dublin, Ohio.
 ''There's a consumer out there, roughly 18 to 20 percent of our customers, who comes to us to get a good, quality, filling meal at the right price,'' Mr. Rowden said. ''It's an important base.''
 Many value-minded customers tend to be younger men, he added, which is significant because the consumers who eat the most often at fast-food restaurants are males ages 16 to 24.
 For the last six months, Wendy's had replaced the Super Value Menu with a Value Choices menu, which raised the maximum price for cheaper products to $1.29, improving profit margins, while keeping some items at 99 cents. 
 Analysts who follow the fast-food industry said the changes confused many longtime Wendy's customers and were partly responsible for a recent slump in sales. (Wendy's is scheduled to report its most recently quarterly results today.)
 Customers who prefer lower-priced products ''are not always shopping for 99-cent items,'' Mr. Rowden said, but ''based on what we saw in the business'' after the price increases took effect ''we decided we had to make a stronger value proposition, and now we are.''
 In addition to restoring the 99-cent price for the Junior Bacon Cheeseburger, the Super Value Menu also features products like Crispy Chicken Nuggets, Frosty desserts and a new item, a Junior BBQ Cheeseburger.
 At Burger King, said Edna Johnson, a spokeswoman for the Burger King Corporation in Miami, a value menu ''is going to be launched nationwide by the end of the first quarter'' after ''an overwhelming majority of franchisees'' approved it in a vote last month.
 The lower-priced menu is meant to provide ''another compelling reason to visit us more often,'' she added, while offering ''a comprehensive menu that provides our customers with a full range of options from premium products to value-priced products.''
 Burger King is not ready to discuss prices for or items on the new menu, Ms. Johnson said, nor the ad plans. Burger King is owned by a consortium that includes Bain Capital, Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and the Texas Pacific Group.
 Among other fast-food chains, the McDonald's Corporation, the largest, has a nine-item Dollar Menu, introduced in 2002, and Taco Bell, part of Yum Brands, has a Big Bell Value Menu, with most items costing 99 cents each. The McDonald's Dollar Menu, which includes a Double Cheeseburger and a McChicken sandwich, has been advertised recently in national magazines and is also featured on the company's Web site (mcdonalds.com).
 As Wendy's reintroduces the Super Value Menu, Mr. Rowden said, the chain is also resuming a campaign that began last September, which plays up the ability of customers to order food custom made to their preferences. Two commercials by McCann Erickson, which are to start running Monday, poke fun at what Wendy's portrays as the reluctance of its rivals to cater to consumer choice.
 In one commercial, employees of a Brand X restaurant greet a man's request for a personalized burger with a ragged chorus of the Hall and Oates tune ''I Can't Go for That (No Can Do).'' In another spot, a similar request is greeted with a mangled version of the Stephen Stills song ''Love the One You're With.''
 ''The essence of what built Wendy's as a business is food made fresh, made to order, when you want it, how you want it,'' Mr. Rowden said. ''This communicates that in a contemporary way.''
 ''We've seen a couple of years of decline'' in perceptions about Wendy's in ''attributes critical to our brand, like freshness, quality, uniqueness of product offerings,'' he added, but recently ''we've seen that turn around and be positive again, which is good because it indicates future purchase intent.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In a new Wendy's commercial on 99-cent prices, a driver reads a speeding ticket and exclaims ''Seventy-five Junior Bacon Cheeseburgers?''
 Wendy's campaign for the Super Value Menu is aimed at younger males who are more likely to eat at fast-food restaurants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (93%); MENU PRICES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%) Restaurants; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Advertising and Marketing; Fast Food Industry; Restaurants

COMPANY: WENDY'S CO (91%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (83%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (67%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (65%); MDC PARTNERS INC (53%); SABMILLER PLC (52%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Wendy's International Inc; Mccann Erickson Worldwide; Burger King Corp; Crispin Porter & Bogusky

TICKER: WEN (NASDAQ) (91%); IPG (NYSE) (83%); MDZ.A (TSX) (53%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (53%); SOSAB (JSE) (52%); SAB (LSE) (52%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (52%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (52%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



107 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Let Others Hit Panic Button; Caviar's Served

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
UNDER the circumstances, upper lips were admirably stiff at Firebird, the Russian restaurant in the theater district with prices high enough to give even a czarina the vapors.
 The word from Moscow the other day was bleak. An international body that keeps a watchful eye on imperiled species had just ordered a worldwide halt to caviar exports.
It has long been feared that wild sturgeon, the source of those briny eggs that for many people spell the difference between luxe and lox, is headed toward extinction. In early fall, the United States banned imports of a top-of-the-line variety: caviar from beluga sturgeon in the Caspian Sea. This week, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species went further, ordering a suspension of indeterminate length for all exports, including those of osetra and sevruga caviar as well as of beluga. 
 Definitely not good news, said Juan Amoroso, the front desk manager at Firebird. He was more than prepared, however, to soldier on.
 ''Obviously, if there's no caviar on the market, what are you going to do?'' Mr. Amoroso said. But it was far too early to get nervous, he added. The restaurant, which charges as much as $450 for a one-ounce serving of beluga -- yes, you read that right: $450 -- has about a two-month caviar supply left.
 Whew! No one would want to disappoint people like the Russian family that went to Firebird during the holidays and ordered five ounces of the restaurant's dwindling beluga stock. ''A little girl, she was maybe 5 years old, was just spooning it up,'' an assistant to Mr. Amoroso said.
 Indeed, it may be said that the caviar-purveying segment of New York, in general, was bearing up ably under this latest blow.
 Maybe the suspension will be brief, said Armen Petrossian, the president and chief executive of the company bearing his family name. ''We have enough inventory of caviar to wait till the new catch, which is around April,'' he said yesterday by phone from Paris. ''So we don't have an immediate impact from this measure.''
 Now, perhaps you do not find it in you to shed many tears over the fate of the Firebirds and the Petrossians et al. At a time when more than a million New Yorkers receive food stamps, and many get their meals from city-financed pantries and kitchens, you have a point.
 Still, high-end restaurants and food stores, if not forming the backbone of the city's economy, account for at least a couple of vertebrae.
 Mr. Petrossian estimated that New Yorkers consume about two-thirds of the caviar sold legally in the United States. (There is also a huge illegal trade. Mr. Petrossian is not alone in warning that the temporary export ban will increase profits for black marketeers. Sybil Sugarman, the general manager of Caviarteria on Lexington Avenue, said, ''It's not the legal fishermen who are causing this problem. It's the poachers. They overfished.'')
 If Mr. Petrossian's calculations are right, New Yorkers scarf down roughly 20 tons of caviar a year, including increasingly popular varieties from farm-raised sturgeon. That's a lot of fish eggs. Ours is one of the few places in America where the word ''roe'' refers to something other than the debate over abortion.
 FORTUNATELY for caviaristas, the new restrictions came only after the high season, Christmas and New Year's, had passed. Early January is a slow period for the food business. There aren't many caviar buyers right now.
 Still, as some in the trade look ahead, they see possible tough times.
 Ms. Sugarman estimated that she had ''maybe another month of product'' in stock. At Russian Samovar, a Midtown restaurant, Lara Kaplan said that ''yes, of course'' the export suspension would hurt.
 ''All Russians are asking for different kinds of caviar,'' said Ms. Kaplan, the restaurant's manager. ''Either we won't have it, or the price will be too much.''
 But Ann Zabar, the caviar purchaser for her family's food emporium on the Upper West Side, is not pushing panic buttons. ''If there is a panic, it will be next December,'' she said.
 ''We should be good on the sevruga and the osetra at least till June,'' Ms. Zabar said. ''The next big buy is Valentine's Day, and we'll have enough for Valentine's Day.''
 Whew, again. If that doesn't keep you lovers calm, nothing will.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FISHES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); MARINE PRODUCTS GATHERING (76%); EXPORT CONTROLS (76%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (75%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Caviar; Shortages; Endangered and Extinct Species; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: Clyde Haberman

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CASPIAN SEA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



108 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Can U.S. Pay Its Bills And Lead the World?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman is now the cheerleader for an assault on Medicare and Social Security. He says he agrees with Michael Mandelbaum's idea that ''the greatest threat to America's role in the world today is not China. It's Medicare.'' 
Providing good quality health care to America's elderly is no more a threat to America's role in the world than is providing health care and education to the young, or movies, or football games, or golf courses. 
 Providing one tax cut after another in the face of mounting deficits, and borrowing from China to finance that fiscal folly, might be a threat, as eventually mere hints by China that it might not continue financing us could put our economy into a tailspin. 
 America now devotes a smaller fraction of its gross domestic product to taxes of all kinds than do the other industrialized countries, and it has a younger population, on average, than those countries.
 With a growing G.D.P. and more enlightened leadership, America could easily afford to be kind to its elderly and to play a positive leadership role in the world.

Uwe Reinhardt
Princeton, N.J., Jan. 4, 2006

The writer is a professor of political economy at Princeton University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MEDICARE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); BUDGETS (74%); WRITERS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); TAX LAW (69%) Medicine and Health; Taxation; Medicare; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (88%) Uwe E (Prof) Reinhardt; Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



109 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Yes, the Numbers Show the Crowds in the City Were Real 

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
The early statistics are in, and they confirm the suspicions of many who found themselves cheek by jowl with strangers in Midtown crowds over the holidays: More people than ever visited New York City last year. 
 Preliminary estimates from city tourism officials are that a record 41 million visitors came to New York in 2005, including 8.25 million in November and December, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday. Those holiday season tourists spent more than $4 billion in the final two months of the year on hotels, restaurants, shopping and entertainment.
''The last week of 2005 was also the single highest grossing week in Broadway history,'' said Mr. Bloomberg, adding that he went to see ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels'' on New Year's Eve. ''More than 280,000 people took in a show, and I was one of them.''
 The upbeat estimates seemed to deflate the dire predictions of the mayor and other officials that hundreds of millions of dollars would be lost because of the transit strike in late December.
 Hotel occupancy last month was 86 percent, up 3 percent from a year ago, and the lack of public transportation did not seem to greatly slow the influx of visitors to the city, the statistics show.
 Still, the mayor said the strike ''certainly did not help'' the city's economy, and probably hurt small businesses and their employees the most. He made his remarks during an appearance at a visitors' center in Midtown Manhattan, where he said that early indicators suggested the surge in tourism is continuing into 2006.
 One factor that city tourism officials say has contributed to the boom in visitors is that favorable exchange rates for some currencies have made going to New York a bargain for many international tourists. And the increase in guests from other countries is good for the city, because foreign tourists generally spend more during their trips than Americans do.
 Of the foreign tourists, ''what's important to keep in mind is that they are responsible for about 45 percent of what is spent in New York City,'' said Jonathan M. Tisch, chairman of NYC & Company, the city's tourism bureau. ''So about 18 percent of our visitors spent about 45 percent of the dollars that they dropped into the coffers of New York City businesses.''
 Mr. Bloomberg said there was little reason to expect that the influx of tourists would slow anytime soon. According to NYC & Company data, attendance at New York tourist attractions is currently running about 15 percent higher than a year ago, and that the number of visitors passing through city airports is 7 percent higher.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A show of van Gogh's drawings at the Metropolitan Museum of Art drew hordes of visitors, who stood in lines winding back and forth outside galleries devoted to the exhibition, open from Oct. 18 through Dec. 31. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); TOURISM (77%); CURRENCIES (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXCHANGE RATES (67%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (67%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (67%); AIRPORTS (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%) Travel and Vacations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Christmas

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Mike Mcintire

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006



110 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: 2 Bids Show New Boldness After Long German Slump 

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
Germany, recently a land of cautious companies stuck in a stagnant economy, has begun 2006 on an uncharacteristically bold note, pursuing two major trans-Atlantic takeover bids.
 On Tuesday, Germany's largest chemical producer, BASF, made a $4.9 billion unsolicited offer for the Engelhard Corporation, a New Jersey company that pioneered the catalytic converter for cars. The same day, ThyssenKrupp, the top steel maker in Germany, raised its bid for Dofasco of Canada, which is being fought over by Thyssen and another European steel giant, Arcelor of Luxembourg.
German companies have long been global shoppers. Adidas last summer bought its American competitor, Reebok, in a deal worth $3.8 billion. And only a few years ago, giants like DaimlerChrysler and Bertelsmann inspired fear in the United States with their acquisitive ways. 
 But as Germany fell into a lengthy economic slump, its companies drew in their horns -- making news less for their global ambitions than for layoffs and plans to move manufacturing jobs to lower-cost countries.
 Now, after years of retrenchment and with signs that Germany is on the mend, they are on the prowl again. The companies, analysts say, are emboldened by their newfound competitiveness; the relative strength of the euro, which makes overseas acquisitions cheaper; and a booming German stock market, which has given them a more valuable currency for deals.
 ''German companies are healthy,'' said Boris Boehm, an asset manager at Nordinvest in Hamburg. ''They are cash-rich, interest rates are low, and they really have to do something with their money.''
 BASF is offering to pay $37 a share in cash for Engelhard. That represents a 23 percent premium over its market value on Dec. 20, the day before BASF first proposed the deal to the company's management in Iselin, N.J. Engelhard, which declined to negotiate with BASF, appealed to its shareholders to do nothing until its board meets to assess the bid.
 ''We're pretty bullish about the whole thing,'' said Gareth Rees, a spokesman for BASF, which is based in Ludwigshafen, Germany. ''We've done our due diligence, and analysts see that it is a good fit for BASF.''
 A hostile takeover bid is an unorthodox step for a conservative company like BASF, Mr. Rees acknowledged. He said the company would have preferred a friendly deal. It has offered to sweeten its bid by $1 a share if Engelhard opens its books to BASF and can prove it is worth more.
 Despite the high price, analysts said the acquisition would not stretch BASF financially. It is one of the most profitable companies in the chemical industry, earning $976 million in the third quarter of 2005, more than double the amount in the comparable period of 2004.
 In a conference call with analysts on Tuesday, BASF's chief financial officer, Kurt Bock, said the deal would have no effect on its policy of paying shareholders a steadily growing dividend. BASF will also keep buying back its stock, he said, though perhaps at a slower pace.
 ThyssenKrupp's $4.2 billion bid for Dofasco, a Canadian steel maker that supplies the auto industry, shows that ThyssenKrupp, which is based in Dusseldorf, intends to be an aggressor in the rapidly consolidating steel industry.
 Analysts say that is noteworthy because in recent years, German companies are viewed less as predators than prey, largely because of their cheap valuations. Foreign private equity investors have poured tens of billions of dollars into Germany, buying real estate and companies.
 ''German companies see the potential dangers if they don't act,'' Mr. Boehm at Nordinvest said. ''They're acting first, to avoid becoming prey for foreign investors. They have confidence they can manage these deals.''
 The ebb and flow of the euro versus the dollar has also played an important role in the ambitions of German companies. When the euro hit record highs against the dollar in late 2004, these companies were under enormous pressure because they export heavily to the United States.
 ''Faced with an extremely high euro and high wage costs, the companies stepped up their restructuring,'' said Holger Schmieding, an economist at the Bank of America in London. ''When the euro declined last year, they suddenly found they could take on the world quite easily.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CHEMICALS TRADE (77%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OFFSHORING (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CURRENCIES (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) 

COMPANY: BASF SE (95%); ENGELHARD CORP (72%); ARCELORMITTAL SA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Basf Ag; Engelhard Corp; Thyssenkrupp Ag; Arcelor; Dofasco Inc

TICKER: BFA (LSE) (95%); BASF (BIT) (95%); BAS (FRA) (95%); MTS (MCE) (57%); MT (PAR) (57%); MT (NYSE) (57%); MT (AMS) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (95%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (95%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (95%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (72%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (72%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (57%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (57%)

PERSON: Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (89%); LUXEMBOURG (79%) Germany; Germany

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006



111 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Days of Rising Interest Rates May Be Numbered

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
RARELY do new years and significant changes coincide as they did this week. The year was less than a week old when it emerged that the Federal Reserve appeared to be easing off the brakes on the economy, the airline industry might be poised for revival and traditional company pensions took a significant step closer to extinction.

RATE SHIFT? Federal Reserve policy makers may be close to ending 18 months of raising interest rates, according to minutes of a meeting last month of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee. The suggestion spurred a rally in the stock market and sent the dollar lower against European and Asian currencies.
The minutes said ''most members'' of the committee agreed that ''given the information now in hand, the number of additional firming steps required probably would not be large.'' Firming steps are rate increases. The Fed has raised its main short-term rate in increments of one quarter of a percentage point at each of its last 13 meetings, increasing it to 4.25 percent from 1 percent. 
 Committee members noted that wages have risen modestly despite strong economic growth, and that last year's spike in energy prices had only a ''muted'' effect on prices over all.
 The change came as the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, neared the end of an 18-year tenure. Ben S. Bernanke is scheduled to become chairman on Feb. 1, assuming the Senate confirms him this month.

GAINING ALTITUDE -- Less than two years after it started low-fare service from its base at Dulles International Airport near Washington, Independence Air stopped flying Thursday and took steps to liquidate. The airline filed for bankruptcy protection in November, but it was unable to line up fresh financing that would let it cope with higher fuel costs and increased competition.
 While that is bad news for the airline's 2,600 employees, it may be good news for other domestic carriers. Fewer planes in the air could ease the pressure on airlines to sell seats at a loss, analysts said, just as fuel costs are easing. That combination could help the airlines move back into the black after four years of losses that total about $30 billion. 
 Analysts expect five airlines to return to profit this year: American, Continental, Alaska, JetBlue and AirTran. Profit at Southwest, which remained profitable through the slump, is likely to increase 15 percent this year, analysts said.

PENSION OVERBOARD -- In a move that could prompt still more big companies to abandon traditional defined-benefit pension plans, I.B.M. said it would freeze pension benefits for its American employees in 2008 and offer them only a 401(k) retirement plan after then.
 With the announcement, I.B.M. joined a growing number of big employers -- including Verizon Communications, Hewlett-Packard, Motorola and Sears -- that have frozen their pension plans. In doing so, the companies no longer let their employees build up retirement benefits to reflect higher pay and additional years of employment. Benefits already earned are unaffected.
 At I.B.M., the change will affect 117,000 employees in the United States. It will not cut the benefits being paid to 125,000 American retirees. 
 I.B.M. projected that it would save $2.5 billion to $3 billion over the next five years as it carries out the change worldwide.

MEDIA MAKEOVER -- Dow Jones & Company, which has been struggling financially since the bursting of the dot-com bubble began to bleed advertising from its flagship newspaper, The Wall Street Journal, chose its chief operating officer, Richard F. Zannino, as its next chief executive.
 He will succeed Peter R. Kann, who is expected to continue as chairman of the board until the annual meeting in April 2007, the year in which he turns 65 and faces mandatory retirement. His wife, Karen Elliott House, the publisher of The Journal, was considered the other leading candidate to succeed him. After not being chosen, Ms. House said she would leave the company.
 Dow Jones's profit fell 16 percent in the third quarter after The Journal's new weekend edition increased costs, although the company said its fourth-quarter earnings would be better than expected. 
 The Journal's managing editor, Paul E. Steiger, is also facing retirement; with the changes, it is not clear who will choose his successor.

HEALTHSOUTH HANGOVER -- Richard M. Scrushy, the former chief executive of the HealthSouth Corporation, was acquitted of fraud charges in a federal trial last year, but a state judge in Alabama said he must repay $47.8 million in bonuses that HealthSouth awarded him for achieving revenue goals; some of the sales used to compute revenue later turned out to be false.
 The ruling by Judge Allwin E. Horn III came in a shareholder lawsuit filed in 2002, before Mr. Scrushy was found not guilty on charges that he directed a $2.7 billion accounting fraud at HealthSouth, a nationwide chain of rehabilitation hospitals and clinics.
 Mr. Scrushy, who said he planned to appeal Judge Horn's decision, faces unrelated federal charges that he bribed former Gov. Don Siegelman of Alabama. He pleaded not guilty to that charge.

TAKEOVER FIGHT -- In a rare hostile takeover by a European company in the United States, BASF, the German chemicals maker, offered $4.9 billion for the Engelhard Company of Iselin, N.J., which developed the catalytic converter and specializes in manufacturing pollution-control systems.
 Engelhard rebuffed the $37-a-share offer, which represented almost a 23 percent premium over its year-end stock price. Still, Engelhard shares jumped to $38, suggesting that investors think someone will take over the company.
 BASF said that if it was successful in buying Engelhard, it did not anticipate big job cuts.

MOST VIEWED -- Following are the most-viewed business news articles on nytimes.com from Dec. 31, 2005, through Jan. 6, 2006:
 1. At 150 Edgars Lane, Changing the Idea of Home
 2. Credit Cards With Rewards Are Worth a Look
 3. David Pogue: A Marriage Not Made in Heaven
 4. A Bit of Doodling About a Tax-Cut Danger
 5. Google and Yahoo Aim at Another Screen
 Links are at nytimes.com/business. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chris Rigalt, right, and Dania Elmaki on Thursday when their airline employer closed. (Photo by Stephen Voss/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); AIR FARES (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US 401K PLANS (77%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); CURRENCIES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (50%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%); MSI (NYSE) (50%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006



112 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1963 words

HEADLINE: No Title and No Elective Office, But Influence Across New Jersey

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
It was a piece of legislation that could reshape New Jersey's landscape and affect the lives of millions of people.
 In the spring of 2004, Gov. James E. McGreevey was pushing the Highlands Preservation Act, a proposal to severely limit new construction near the streams and reservoirs in northern New Jersey, to protect the source of drinking water for half of the state's nine million residents and rein in the growing problem of sprawl in the country's most densely populated state.
As the bill was being crafted in the State Legislature, it had the support of environmentalists and much of the business community, but ran into one major obstacle: George E. Norcross III, the political leader from Camden County. 
 Mr. Norcross holds no elective office or party title, and he is based at the other end of the state, but he had enough loyalty within the Legislature to be able to kill the program if he and his political and business associates did not like what was in the bill. 
 Mr. Norcross's legislative allies held out for changes that would make it easier for developers to build in the overcrowded suburbs, according to people involved in the negotiations. 
 At the same time, the involved parties say, they used the opportunity to pressure the state to block an oil company's plan to establish a nature preserve on Petty's Island, in the Delaware River near Camden. Mr. Norcross and his political and business associates argued that the oil company was simply trying to avoid the cost of cleaning up pollution on the island, and maintain that their plan to build a golf resort and housing development there would help revitalize the blighted area. 
 Mr. McGreevey eventually got the votes he needed for the Highlands plan, and Mr. Norcross walked away with what he wanted, too: both the so-called fast-track provision and the revised plan for Petty's Island. The achievements cemented his status as the state's most influential power broker. 
 Through a network of union leaders, legislators, developers and lawyers, Mr. Norcross has grown from a regional figure in Camden to a pivotal player in state politics. He has a say in a wide range of major decisions made by the state government, as well as in smaller government actions shown to enrich his allies and to cost taxpayers. 
 He has also helped Commerce Bank, where he is C.E.O. of the insurance division, win contracts in 31 of the 37 municipalities in Camden County.

Pulling State Funds South
 Mr. Norcross rarely speaks in public, and when he does, he describes himself as ''an activist'' for South Jersey, where residents have long complained that they are overlooked by a state government dominated by the wealthier, more densely populated counties to the north. 
 He is proud to take credit for helping South Jersey residents receive infusions of state money and job appointment in recent years, including $175 million designated to rehabilitate sections of Camden and millions for Cooper Hospital there. 
 ''I'm part of a great team of South Jersey Democrats,'' Mr. Norcross said, in the only remarks he would allow to be quoted for this article. ''We've worked hard in recent years to bring South Jersey its fair share.'' 
 But Mr. Norcross's activities and interests clearly extend far north of New Jersey's geographic midpoint, the Raritan River. His ability to raise millions in campaign money has allowed him to donate generously in Bergen, Essex and Mercer Counties, gaining influence there. 
 It has enabled him to demand a seat at the table when Democratic leaders choose their nominees for governor or other high office. It also gives him an important voice on virtually every major state issue, from property taxes to the plan to build a hockey arena in downtown Newark and one in Pennsauken, where at the time he owned the rights to a minor-league franchise.
 Mr. Norcross earned unwelcome notoriety last year when two Democratic political rivals revealed secretly recorded audio tapes in which he made expletive-laden threats about his adversaries and boasted of his ability to make political appointments. 
 ''In the end, the McGreeveys, the Corzines, they're all going to be with me,'' Mr. Norcross said in the most memorable sound bite, which was disseminated on television, radio and the Internet and in Republican campaign advertisements. ''Not that they like me, but because they have no choice.'' 
 Federal prosecutors are investigating whether his statements constitute official corruption, but Mr. Norcross's lawyer, William Tambussi, said that was nothing more than tough talk. 
 Governor-elect Jon S. Corzine brushed off Mr. Norcross's statements as unfounded chest beating, and insists he will not be pressured by political leaders or contributors.
 ''I don't think I've talked to that person more than once in the past year,'' Mr. Corzine said of Mr. Norcross during a recent interview. ''And he's certainly not going to have any more say in state policy than anyone else.''
 But when he takes office on Jan. 17, Mr. Corzine will have to contend with more than a dozen legislators who receive substantial financial support from Mr. Norcross, including his former partner in a chain of optometry stores, Joseph J. Roberts Jr., who recently became Assembly speaker.
 Mr. Norcross's ascent is a testament to the resilience of New Jersey's political power brokers. Fifty years ago, they ran gritty urban organizations that derived much of their influence from union halls, housing projects and church basements. The growth of suburbia diluted the power of political machines in many other parts of the country.
 But New Jersey's lax campaign-contribution laws and strong tradition of home rule, which gives municipal officials broad powers to make decisions regarding development issues, allowed the county bosses to adapt and flourish.
 Mr. Norcross's organization mirrors the changes that have reshaped the state in the last half-century. His political coalition includes investment bankers, laborers, suburbanites and city dwellers, and cuts across racial and ethnic lines. That diversity also extends to those who contribute to the various campaign funds that Mr. Norcross controls; they include unions, government contractors, lawyers, engineering firms and his associates in banking and insurance.
 He has used that money to become the most technologically innovative of the state's Democratic political leaders, investing millions to provide his candidates with state-of-the-art polling, target marketing and opposition research.
 Although Mr. Norcross, a self-professed ''Reagan Democrat,'' often urges elected officials to practice fiscal restraint, he is not reluctant to spend with abandon to help them win elections. In 2003, Mr. Norcross and the Camden County Democratic Organization raised $4.4 million to help a former state police superintendent, Fred Madden, win a State Senate seat that has an annual salary of $49,000.
 When Mr. Corzine ran for the United States Senate in 2000, Mr. Norcross threw his organization's weight behind his opponent in the primary, former Gov. Jim Florio. Mr. Corzine won, but only after spending $30 million. The two men later made peace, and records show that Mr. Corzine has given more than $700,000 to Mr. Norcross's various political committees. 
 Mr. Norcross, 49, said he learned to act decisively and cherish political loyalty from his father, George Jr., who served for years as the president of the Southern New Jersey A.F.L.-C.I.O. Central Labor Council. 

County Chairman in His 30's
 After Mr. Norcross dropped out of Rutgers University at Camden in the late 1970's, his father helped him start a small insurance company and introduced him to the mayor of Camden, who appointed him to the only government position he has ever held: chairman of the city's parking authority. By 1989, he had shown such skill at running campaigns and mobilizing unions that he rose to the chairmanship of Camden County's Democratic organization. 
 Mr. Norcross left the post in 1995. His brother Donald, a union leader, runs it now. A year later, Commerce Bancorp bought Mr. Norcross's insurance company and brought him in to start up its insurance division, and both he and the bank began to take a far more prominent role in state affairs.
 Commerce, based in Cherry Hill, opened or acquired dozens of branches across New Jersey. Its political action committee doled out $1.5 million to New Jersey political candidates between 1998 and 2003, much of it in communities that gave Commerce banking, insurance and bond underwriting work. 
 The insurance division run by Mr. Norcross now brings the bank more than $50 million a year in premiums from various municipal governments and authorities. 
 David Flaherty, a spokesman for the company, has said that Commerce has attracted business from governments around the state because it is a New Jersey-based company and provides quality service at a reasonable price. 
 Mr. Norcross is paid $1.3 million a year by Commerce. According to financial records filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, he now holds bank stock worth more than $100 million. 
 Mr. Norcross is up by 4 a.m. most days to coordinate his political work, is at the office by 6 a.m., and often works late into the evening. He and his wife, Sandy, have two children -- Lexie, 18, and Alex, 9 -- and despite his long hours, he prides himself on being an involved father.
 When Mr. McGreevey sought support for the Highlands protection plan, Mr. Norcross told the administration and legislative leaders that he considered the plan hostile to the business community, according to people involved in the talks. 
 Senator Stephen M. Sweeney of Gloucester County, vice chairman of the environmental committee, balked at bringing the matter to a vote. Mr. Sweeney, whose record-setting $1.8 million campaign for the Senate in 2001 had received sizable contributions from Mr. Norcross and the Camden County Democratic organization, first wanted the administration to support his proposal to speed the pace of construction elsewhere in the state. 
 As the standoff dragged on, Mr. Norcross's brother Phil, the managing partner of a prominent law firm, negotiated with Mr. McGreevey's legal advisers at the Marriott hotel, a few blocks from the State House, people familiar with the effort at the time said. Phil Norcross did not respond to telephone and e-mail messages requesting comment. 
 In the General Assembly, meanwhile, the Budget Committee chairman Louis D. Greenwald, of Camden County, pressed the administration for assurances that it would not permit Citgo Petroleum to establish a nature preserve on Petty's Island, where Mr. Norcross's associates were hoping to build a hotel, golf resort and residential development.
 The McGreevey administration ultimately relented on both fronts.
 When Mr. Corzine becomes governor he will have the opportunity to reverse both of those decisions.
 Petty's Island still needs many state approvals before development can begin. Mr. McGreevey signed the fast-track bill, but later, in the lame-duck period after he announced he was resigning because of a sex scandal, he issued an executive order postponing it. Mr. Corzine has said that he is undecided about Petty's Island, but that he opposes the fast-track law.
 Mr. Norcross declined to speak specifically about either issue. But Senator Sweeney said that the fast-track bill would spur economic growth and sensible development by cutting bureaucracy.
 ''We're not going away on this one,'' Mr. Sweeney said. ''We're going to keep fighting.''

Power Brokers
 Articles in this series are examining Democratic Party leaders in New Jersey who wield influence on a variety of issues. A previous article is online at nytimes.com/nyregion.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A 2004 view of the Canistear Reservoir in Sussex County, N.J., part of the New Jersey Highlands Preservation area. (Photo by Robert Yaskovic/The New Jersey Herald, via Associated Press)(pg. B4)
 G. E. Norcross III (pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POPULATION DENSITY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); SUBURBS (76%); POLITICS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); RESORTS (67%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006



113 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

A 3rd Operation for Sharon
Doctors operated on Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel for a third time to relieve new bleeding in his brain. After five hours of surgery, the doctors said, he remained in critical but stable condition. 
 Many Israelis visited the Western Wall to pray for him, but they also seemed resigned to the departure of Mr. Sharon from politics. PAGE A7

F.B.I. Erred, Inquiry Finds
The F.B.I. wrongly implicated an Oregon lawyer in the deadly 2004 Madrid train bombing through overconfidence and sloppy paperwork, the Justice Department said in a report, but it found no abuse of the USA Patriot Act. PAGE A8

Jobless Rate Declines But Wages Lag Inflation
The nation added 108,000 jobs in December as the unemployment rate edged down to 4.9 percent, the Labor Department reported. For the year, the nation added about 2 million jobs. Hourly wages rose about 3.1 percent from December a year ago, but analysts said they failed to keep up with the rate of inflation. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Last Gang of 4 Member Dies
Yao Wenyuan, the last surviving member of China's notorious Gang of Four, the powerful group that was blamed for many of the excesses of the Cultural Revolution, has died, the New China News Agency reported. He was 74. PAGE C14

Lou Rawls Is Dead
The silken-voiced singer, winner of three Grammy Awards in a career that spanned gospel, jazz, rhythm and blues and pop, in his later years raised hundreds of millions of dollars for the United Negro College Fund. He was 72. PAGE C14

Jets Let Edwards Leave
The Jets received a fourth-round draft pick from the Kansas City Chiefs as compensation for releasing Coach Herman Edwards from the remaining two years of his contract. SPORTSSATURDAY, PAGE D1

THIS WEEKEND

A Building's Secret History
New York landmark or no, to a certain gay generation 2 Columbus Circle was a beacon, home of Huntington Hartford's Gallery of Modern Art, site of an outre 1960's event, at right, and much more. A manifesto for the social life of buildings, by Herbert Muschamp. ARTS & LEISURE

Advanced Placement's Impact
Advanced Placement has evolved into one of education's most influential programs, upping the ante on college admissions and achievement. But how much is too much?
 Also: The changing landscape for student loans. EDUCATION LIFE

Galapagos Unbound
Exploring the sea by kayak frees visitors from the tight choreography and limited opportunities of ship tours and gives them a sea-turtle-eye view. TRAVEL

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Patrick Baz/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 (Photo by Fred McDarrah)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); JAZZ & BLUES (69%); MUSIC (69%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (64%); STUDENT LOANS (64%); US PATRIOT ACT (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (76%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006



114 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7

U.S. Meets Some Rebels To Undermine Insurgency
American officials are talking with local Iraqi insurgent leaders to exploit a rift that has opened between homegrown insurgents and radical groups like Al Qaeda and to draw the local leaders into the political process, according to a Western diplomat and an Iraqi political leader. A1

A secret Pentagon study has found that at least 80 percent of the marines who have been killed in Iraq from wounds to their upper body could have survived if they had had more body armor than the Pentagon provided. 
 A1

3rd Operation for Sharon
Doctors operated on Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel for a third time after finding new bleeding in his brain. After five hours of surgery, the doctors said, he remained in critical but stable condition. Israel's Channel 1 reported Friday night that doctors had suggested that the new surgery made it more likely that Mr. Sharon would survive the extensive stroke he suffered Wednesday night. A7

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Europe on Alert for Bird Flu
Health officials in Europe said they were on ''high alert'' as a third Turkish child was confirmed to have bird flu and more than two dozen people were under observation at a hospital, an unusual cluster of human cases that raises the possibility that the virus has become more contagious. A3

NATIONAL A8-9, 12

Questions About Accident And Mine Rescue Effort
As state and federal investigators began a sweeping inquiry of the accident that killed 12 miners, a heartbreaking question was raised: Did the miners die simply because they decided not to try to walk to safety and instead hunkered down to wait for help that took too long to arrive? A1

Congress Reports on Spying
President Bush's rationale for eavesdropping on Americans without warrants rests on questionable legal ground, and Congress does not appear to have given him the authority to order the surveillance, a Congressional analysis said. The report, requested by several members of Congress, reached no bottom-line conclusions on the legality of the program. A1

Challenges Against DeLay
A rebellious band of House Republicans moved to bar Representative Tom DeLay from regaining his position as majority leader. A1

New Orleans Halts Demolitions
City officials agreed not to demolish any storm-damaged houses until at least Jan. 19, when a federal judge will hear arguments in a suit over whether the city can do so without the permission of homeowners. A8

7 Judges to Testify on Alito
In an unusual move, Senate Republicans have called seven federal judges to testify as character witnesses for Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. during his Supreme Court confirmation hearings. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Pataki Urges New Yorkers To Use Alternative Fuels
Hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers have cars that can run on alternative fuels like ethanol or biodiesel, but don't know it, and the closest gasoline stations that carry those types of fuels are in Ottawa. But Governor Pataki is moving to change all that with a series of measures to reduce the state's petroleum consumption. B1

Vatican Grants Church Trial
Msgr. Charles M. Kavanagh, the most prominent Roman Catholic priest in New York to be accused in the church sex abuse scandals, was granted a church trial by the Vatican to determine whether he should receive the ultimate punishment of removal from the priesthood. B1

Religion Journal B5

Neediest Cases B4

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-8

ARTS B7-19

OBITUARIES C14

Lou Rawls
The singing star known for his hit, ''You'll Never Find (Another Love Like Mine),'' whose career traced a line from gospel to jazz and pop, he was 72. C14

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

2005 Job Market Steady
Although job creation in December was slower than expected, the United States generated about 200,000 jobs a month in the last part of 2005, a pace that President Bush cited as part of a campaign to promote his economic record and agenda of tax cuts, tighter limits on government spending and more trade. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A10-11

Editorials: Newt as Diogenes in a dark Capitol; an anemic jobs recovery; New Jersey's medical school mess; working together for the average Joe.

Columns: Maureen Dowd, John Tierney.

Bridge B17
Crossword B17
TV Listings B19
Weather B20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); TESTIMONY (85%); JUDGES (84%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (76%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); AL-QAEDA (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (72%); INFLUENZA (72%); WITNESSES (70%); STROKES (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); MINE WORKERS (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); CITIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006



115 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Wants Drivers to Fill Up With Ethanol or Biodiesel

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
Some 200,000 New Yorkers own vehicles that can run on corn-based ethanol instead of gasoline. But many have no idea that their Ford Explorers, Chevy Impalas or Nissan Titans can use this type of fuel, which some view as a way to liberate Americans from Middle Eastern oil.
 In any case, the closest station carrying ethanol is in Ottawa, as the Northeast is the one region of the United States that uniformly does not offer ethanol to the public 
But Gov. George E. Pataki wants to change that and make ethanol and biodiesel, two controversial alternative fuels, available in the 27 service areas on the New York State Thruway and in 100 more stations throughout the state as early as this year, in a first small step toward reducing the state's petroleum consumption. The governor is also proposing incentives to bring refineries that produce ethanol into the state. 
 Costs and further details of the plan, which Mr. Pataki first sketched out in his State of the State address on Wednesday, will not be disclosed until he makes his budget proposal later this month. If the plan is approved by the Legislature, it will give New Yorkers one of the nation's most diverse ranges of fuel choices. Only Minnesota offers an ethanol-rich blend known as E85 at more than 100 stations. Likewise, biodiesel is offered at only a few hundred of the nation's roughly 180,000 stations. 
 Both fuels can be made from a variety of crops, trees and plant material, and even used grease from fast-food outlets in the case of biodiesel. Ethanol, or grain alcohol, is already mixed with gasoline sold in the New York metropolitan area, but in amounts of about 10 percent. By contrast, E85, as its name suggests, is 85 percent ethanol. 
 Using it is not far-fetched. In Brazil, ethanol made from sugar cane has become a formidable competitor to gasoline. 
 Biodiesel is more commonly sold as B20, a blend of 20 percent biodiesel, with the rest conventional diesel fuel. While ethanol smells like moonshine, a car with biodiesel can smell like cooking French fries through a tailpipe. Both fuels have their share of skeptics and believers. Willie Nelson, for instance, sells his own brand of B20 known as BioWillie and pitches it as an alternative to consuming fuel from the Middle East. 
 The governor's plan comes after the oil price shocks of the last year and frustration with automakers for suing New York for adopting California's greenhouse gas emissions standards for cars.
 The plan also includes incentives to help the state modify its hybrid-electric vehicles so that the cars can be plugged into stationary outlets to enable them to use even more electricity than fuel, a practice discouraged by the auto industry.
 ''Are we supposed to sit around and wait for Detroit to do these things?'' said Charles G. Fox, a deputy secretary to Mr. Pataki who oversees energy issues, in an interview on Friday. Part of the plan, he said, was aimed at promoting the use of alternative fuels that can be used right away, as opposed to more futuristic fuels like hydrogen. Biodiesel can run in any diesel engine, and several million cars and trucks on the road nationwide can use E85. 
 Criticism of the governor has come from several sides. 
 Peter Iwanowicz, a director of environmental health for the American Lung Association of New York, said the environmental benefits of the two fuels were mixed. 
 ''Ethanol increases ozone formation, which is obviously harmful for people with lung disease, and biodiesel increases emissions of nitrogen oxide,'' he said.
 But a variety of research suggests that the fuels can be environmentally beneficial, depending on how they are produced.
 Mr. Pataki has been criticized for promoting ethanol because it is made from corn grown in states that include Iowa, which he has been visiting recently to gauge support for a possible presidential run. 
 But even the governor's advisers say that making ethanol from corn is a bad idea and that they prefer using wood or certain kinds of grass. 
 Environmentalists have largely denounced making ethanol-capable vehicles, calling that a boondoggle intended for the agriculture lobby and Detroit. When automakers build cars and trucks that can use ethanol, called flex-fuel vehicles, they earn credits that make it easier to meet fuel-economy regulations, in turn giving them leeway to build more gas-guzzlers. 
 Automakers have also not even told many customers that they own vehicles with such a capability, but Mr. Fox said New York might do so by consulting state records. Consumers can learn if they own one by examining their vehicle identification number as described at www.e85fuel.com.
 Only about 400 stations nationwide sell E85, and none of them are in the Northeast. On Friday, a gallon of E85 was selling for $1.73 -- in part because of subsidies -- at a station in Akron, Iowa, compared with $2.19 for a gallon of unleaded regular. 
 That does not represent a discount, in real terms, because ethanol is less energy dense than gasoline, and a driver cannot go as far on a gallon. 
 Some studies, particularly a recent one by Cornell University, have suggested that producing ethanol from corn costs more energy than it creates, when the diesel fuel used by tractors and the production of fertilizer and other factors are considered. 
 ''Some people think it's an environmental messiah, and other people think it's alchemy,'' said Ryan S. Karben, a Democratic assemblyman who is the chairman of a subcommittee on renewable fuels. ''The question is why put such a controversial technology at the forefront of the state's energy strategy?''
 Mr. Fox, Mr. Pataki's deputy, says the administration is far more interested in fostering research and development of new processes to create ethanol. With corn, he said, ''it takes too much energy to make a gallon of ethanol.''
 Mr. Pataki has the use of a Chevrolet Suburban that can run on ethanol from stations available to government vehicles. If nothing else, his plan would allow him to keep using ethanol after he leaves office.
 Stewart Hancock, a spokesman for Northeast Biofuels, a company that is refitting a brewery in Fulton, N.Y., as an ethanol plant, said he hoped to start production within a year. 
 ''I told the governor we'd have some to put in his black Suburban before he leaves office,'' he said, ''so the clock is ticking.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (93%); ETHANOL (92%); ALCOHOLS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); FAST FOOD (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (67%); APPROVALS (67%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%); BUDGETS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006



116 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: A Bronx Cheer

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI and TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
When the January wind whips down the Harlem River in the South Bronx, threading through the 1920's facade of Yankee Stadium, baseball season seems far away. But in the Highbridge neighborhood around the stadium this year, the sport is on many minds.
 It was six months ago that the Yankees proposed building an $800 million, 53,000-seat stadium that the team would pay for entirely. The city would replace the 22 acres the team wants for the stadium in the Mullaly and Macombs Dam parks with 28 acres of parks, ball fields and tennis courts.
It seemed like a perfect plan. The South Bronx, where the Yankees would remain, would get a new shot at economic revival. Elected officials could boast that they had kept the club in the Bronx at modest public cost. And the team would get a stadium with plenty of luxury boxes.
 But now the few murmurs of dissent that greeted the proposal have swelled into something stronger, even with baseball and opening day a distant dream. 
 ''I'm a Yankee fan,'' Ernesto Maldonado, who lives just west of the Yankees' historic home, said during a noisy public hearing last month in the rotunda of the Bronx County Courthouse, where the team laid out its plans to build a new home in two neighborhood parks. The meeting attracted no fewer than 500 people, with dozens forced to wait outside.
 ''I'm totally opposed to this,'' he said. ''We've never benefited from the stadium, and we don't believe we'll ever benefit from it.''
 Much of the anger is focused on a plan that would eliminate nearly all of the popular Mullaly and Macombs Dam parks, which are about as old as Yankee Stadium itself, and replace them with smaller parks scattered around the neighborhood. Some would be placed on the roofs of new garages for stadium parking, and one would be on the waterfront along the river.
 But the team's plan has also suffered from a longstanding perception that the Yankees have been a bad neighbor with nothing but contempt for residents of one of the city's most impoverished neighborhoods. The dispute has reopened old fissures between the club and residents who still resent the team owner George Steinbrenner's loud complaints about falling attendance and crime at a time when the most common arrest on game days was of drunken fans for public urination.
 The knotty relationship has been complicated by the team's periodic threats to move to Manhattan or New Jersey.
 In recent months, the Yankees have increased contributions to Bronx youth groups and access for Spanish-language newspaper and television reporters. But many residents complain that the team reaps millions of dollars of revenue in the South Bronx, but performs little meaningful community outreach and did not consult most residents about the new stadium plan until November. Many have not forgotten the furor over a Yankee executive, Richard Kraft, the team's vice president for community relations, who in 1994 resigned over remarks attributed to him in which the phrases ''colored boy'' and ''monkeys'' were used to describe neighborhood youths.
 ''They just ignore this community,'' said Mary L. Blassingame, 64, a member of Community Board 4, whose district includes the stadium. ''If they had been a good neighbor, they would not have put this plan through.''
 Critics of the plan have started petition drives and held protests. The plan was rejected by the local community board -- a move that, while not legally binding, is an important gauge of the neighborhood's mood, and was especially embarrassing to Adolfo Carrion Jr., the Bronx borough president, who supports the new stadium and appointed the board's 50 members. 
 To go forward, the stadium proposal needs the approval of the city's Planning Commission, which is scheduled to take it up later this month, and eventually of the City Council.
 It calls for construction to start by this summer, and for the new stadium to be ready by opening day in April 2009. When the stadium is finished, the current structure would be razed and transformed into a public park with baseball and softball fields. A soccer field and a track would be built on the street-level roof of one parking garage, while another garage would be turned into a skating rink.
 Residents, however, say that the new parks would be a patchwork compared with what they now have, and that the two new proposed parks on top of parking garages are especially inappropriate for a neighborhood in which community leaders have complained about high rates of asthma.
 The Yankees and the city's Parks Department, which is overseeing the project's design, say that they are working closely with the community to allay concerns, but that the current plan would greatly benefit the neighborhood economically and provide more parkland. The Parks Department has committed to spending $110 million on new parks in the area.
 ''People understandably have a tough time looking past what they have now, but in the end, they're going to have nicer facilities,'' said Joshua Laird, chief of planning for the Parks Department.
 The plan is supported by almost all of the area's elected officials, as well as by some residents. Some support groups have received money from the Yankees. 
 Although the Yankees have agreed to pay for the cost of the stadium, the team would not pay rent, property taxes or sales tax on construction. The city would spend up to $135 million on replacing and improving local parks; the state would provide about $70 million for four new parking garages and low-interest financing.
 Randy Levine, president of the Yankees, said the team has tried to burnish its image in the Bronx in recent years and deepen its ties to the community. In the past, he conceded, the stadium was ''like an island in the Bronx,'' remote and uninviting.
 Last year, he said, $291,000 of the $1.5 million distributed by the Yankee Foundation nationally went to dozens of Bronx community groups, including Little League teams, the youth leadership program at 12 Bronx community boards, a soup kitchen and various churches. The team itself gave out an additional $450,000 in tickets, bats, balls, uniforms and caps, he said. 
 Brian Smith, the Yankees' director of community relations, said he was unsure how the team's contributions to Bronx-based groups in recent years compared with the 1990's.
 Gary Israel, coach of the Morris High School robotics team, said that he was shocked by the criticism of the Yankees, who had been helpful to his program. Over three years, the Yankee Foundation gave the robotics team $39,000, helping it travel across the country to compete.
 Mr. Carrion said the project would guarantee construction jobs for residents of the Bronx, which has the highest unemployment rate in New York State. ''There's always been opposition to change, and the argument that I'm making is that this is a change for the better,'' Mr. Carrion said.
 Still, the Yankees lack a deep reservoir of good will in the surrounding neighborhood, where residents might otherwise have given the team the benefit of the doubt. Highbridge residents have collected thousands of signatures -- they say more than 4,000 -- opposing the project.
 The Mullaly and Macombs Dam parks attract large crowds, particularly on summer weekends, and have been the playing fields of generations of children who dreamed of playing in the stadium next door. Macombs Dam Park's quarter-mile track was once a major training center for athletes, including Hannes Kohlemainen, a long-distance runner from Finland who won three gold medals in the 1912 Olympics. It is now used for school track meets.
 The location and utility of the new parks are crucial, because federal law dictates that if parkland is removed from public use, it must be replaced by public parks of ''at least equal fair market value and of reasonably equivalent usefulness and location.''
 Some residents are also concerned about traffic, noise and pollution. And they complain that the parks would not be completed until after the stadium is completed, and that a rooftop ball field is a poor substitute for a tree-lined park. 
 ''We are not against the new stadium,'' said Pasquale Canale, a member of the community board, president of the 161st Street Merchants Association and the owner of the Hero Factory sandwich shop. ''We're against taking parks away from the neighborhood and sandwiching that big stadium up against the apartment buildings right across the street.''
 Mr. Laird said the city had accelerated the creation of parks and ball fields because of community comments and at Mr. Carrion's urging. 
 Still, Peggy Escalera, a 35-year resident whose two sons grew up playing in the park, did not feel assured as she listened at the public hearing on Dec. 12. Some of her neighbors were barred from the hearing because construction workers backing the project had gotten in early, taking many seats.
 ''We just feel so disrespected,'' she said. ''People feel as if they weren't consulted. They created a plan, and then talked to the community.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pasquale Canale, in his sandwich shop near the stadium, is a community leader trying to save neighborhood parks. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)
Yankee Stadium in the background of a track and field oval on parkland in the Bronx. A new stadium could eliminate nearly half of the recreational space. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Albertha Hunter says she has been walking through Macombs Dam Park in the Highbridge section of the Bronx for more than a quarter-century. A new Yankee Stadium is scheduled to be built on the parkland. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B2)Chart/Map: ''Bronx Renaissance''The proposed rebuilding of Yankee Stadium will include 28 acres of parks, ball fields and waterfront redevelopment.Map of the Bronx highlighting the following:Part of East 161 Street closed to traffic.Ball fields built on the former site of Yankee Stadium.Underground parking: The project will create 3,385 spaces in two garages beneath the ice rink and the track and soccer fields.V.I.P. parkingNew Yankee StadiumFerry landingLittle League fieldTennis courts, esplanade and waterfront parkTrack and soccer fieldsBasketball courts and parkingIce rink and parking(satellite photo from DigitalGlobe via GoogleEarth)(Source by New York City Department of City Planning)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (73%); TENNIS (73%); SPORTS (73%); TRACK & FIELD (72%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006



117 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Bush Cites 2 Million New Jobs in 2005 and Healthy Economy 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
The United States generated about 200,000 new jobs a month in the last part of 2005, a healthy pace that President Bush immediately used on Friday as part of a broader campaign to promote his economic record and agenda of tax cuts, tighter limits on government spending and more trade.
 The nation added 108,000 jobs in December as the unemployment rate edged down to 4.9 percent, the Labor Department said Friday.
The job creation in December was much lower than most forecasters had expected, but the Labor Department also said the nation added far more jobs in November, 305,000, than it had estimated last month. 
 Over all, the nation added about two million jobs in 2005, about the same as in 2004. Hourly wages rose about 3.1 percent over the year, a faster clip than in 2004 but not quite enough to keep up with inflation.
 Mr. Bush and his top team spread out across the country on Friday to celebrate what administration officials see as a largely unappreciated success amid gloomy news about the war in Iraq, criminal investigations into prominent Republicans and a sense among many people that the economy is not as good as the numbers say it is.
 ''The American economy heads into 2006 with a full head of steam,'' Mr. Bush told a gathering of business executives in Chicago, citing data not only on job creation, but also on gains in productivity and homeownership. Then, he used his appearance to demand that Congress extend his major tax cuts on wages and on dividends, capital gains and estate taxes.
 ''By cutting taxes on income, we helped create jobs,'' Mr. Bush said. ''To keep this economy growing, to keep the entrepreneurial spirit alive, to make sure that the United States of America is the most productive nation in the world, the United States Congress must make the tax cuts permanent.''
 Vice President Dick Cheney echoed the theme at a visit to a Harley-Davidson factory in Kansas, while other top members of the economic team gave speeches in New York, Pittsburgh and Louisville, Ky.
 By almost all measures, last year was a good one for the American economy. The economy expanded by about 3.6 percent in 2005, the fourth consecutive year of solid growth, despite the soaring energy prices and the destruction caused by Hurricane Katrina. 
 Consumer prices climbed at a rate of 3.5 percent for the 12 months ended in November, but only about 2 percent after excluding the volatile sectors of food and energy.
 Many analysts said, however, that Mr. Bush's policies were not the primary reason for the economy's strength.
 ''Tax cuts had very little to do with it,'' said Narimen Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight, a forecasting firm in Lexington, Mass. ''You had a housing boom, which had very little to do with tax cuts, driving consumer spending. We also had before this year the dollar coming down, which helped drive up exports.''
 Analysts also noted that hourly wages did not keep up with inflation last year. The Labor Department estimated that hourly wages were about 3.1 percent higher in December than they were a year earlier. 
 Mr. Bush has been eager to highlight his differences with Democrats over economic policy. He has sought to set up a contrast between what the White House says is a job-creating agenda and a Democratic approach that White House officials say would lead to higher taxes, a further surge in spending on domestic programs and a drift toward protectionism. Republicans say they expect Mr. Bush to make those assertions increasingly in coming months and include them in his State of Union address, tentatively scheduled for Jan. 31.
 Mr. Bush and his aides skirted around some of the biggest challenges facing the economy, including the slowing of the housing market, the surge in energy prices and the potentially long-term destabilizing effect of the nation's growing foreign indebtedness.
 Democrats said that Mr. Bush was out of touch with the needs of the middle class and was thoughtlessly determined to expand tax breaks for the nation's wealthiest people.
 ''While some corporations are enjoying increased profits, the benefits of economic growth still have not reached many hard-working middle-class families,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic Senate leader. ''Instead of pushing to spend billions of dollars on tax breaks for millionaires and the special interests, Republicans in the White House and Congress should join Democrats in pursuing policies that will address the factors squeezing middle-class families today.''
 Mr. Bush and his aides have said, however, that the economy's performance showed their approach was creating jobs.
 ''Some in Washington said these tax cuts would not work,'' Mr. Cheney said at the Harley-Davidson factory. But after seeing the nation add more than four million jobs since 2003, he said, ''it's getting pretty hard for the critics to make the case that somehow these tax cuts weren't good for the economy.''
 Most forecasters predict that economic growth will continue at a respectable pace through 2006, though many also say that the pace will slow and they caution that there are some major uncertainties.
 Perhaps the biggest uncertainty is the housing market, which has expanded at an explosive pace for the last several years as a result of extremely low interest rates. With mortgage rates climbing, and home buyers less confident that house prices will keep rising, demand is expected to slow. In addition, homeowners could sharply scale back on home-equity loans.
 Investors had a mixed reaction to the new data on employment. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes rose slightly. The dollar dropped against the euro and the yen, an unusual response in the face of strong economic news. 
 But stocks jumped to their highest levels since 2001. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 77.16 points, or 0.7 percent, to 10,959.31, a level not seen since June 7, 2001. The Nasdaq composite index was up 28.75 points, or 1.3 percent, to 2,305.62, its highest since May 2001. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 11.97 points, or 0.94 percent, to 1,285.45.
 The new unemployment data provided mixed signals about the economy's underlying strength.
 Retailers shed 15,600 jobs in December, despite the holiday shopping rush, the Labor Department reported. Over all, employment at department stores and other general merchandise retailers was down, the government said, because seasonal hiring was lower than usual and the industry's total employment has been ''trending down.''
 Employment at construction companies fell by 9,000 jobs, the biggest drop since February 2003 and a possible indicator of a retrenchment in home building. 
 The unemployment rate edged down to 4.9 percent in December from 5 percent in November, but that decline had little to do with the comparatively small gain in jobs. Rather, it stemmed from the fact that more people dropped out of the work force.
 The unemployment rate has ranged from 4.9 percent to 5.1 percent since last March.

 DEC.: 66.0
1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.1
1-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.

'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (In millions)
Working part time, but want full-time work
DEC. :4.1
1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.9%
1-YEAR CHANGE : -6.5%

People who currently want a job<7>
DEC. :5.0+
1-MONTH CHANGE: +3.7
1-YEAR CHANGE : -0.9

UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVEL
Less than high school
DEC.: 7.5%
1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1
1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.7

High school
DEC.: 4.6
1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.2
1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3

Some college
DEC.: 3.9
1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1
1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3


Bachelor's or higher
DEC.: 2.2
1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.
1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3

Graph tracks the unemployment rate since 2005. (Currently 4.9%)

Employment

AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (Rank-and-file workers)
 DEC.: $550.66
1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.
1-YEAR CHANGE: +3.1%

BY TYPE OF WORK
Nonfarm
 DEC.: 134.5 
1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1%
1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.5%

Goods
 DEC.: 22.3
1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1
1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.1

Services
 DEC.: 112.2
1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1
1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.6

Agriculture
 DEC.: 2.1
1-MONTH CHANGE: -1.1
1-YEAR CHANGE: -2.7

Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted.

*Hispanics can be of any race.

+Not seasonally adjusted.

<7>People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health.

(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Labor Picture in December''UnemploymentBY DEMOGRAPHICSWhiteDEC.: 4.3%1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3BlackDEC.: 9.31-MONTH CHANGE: -1.31-YEAR CHANGE: -1.5Hispanic*DEC.: 6.01-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.5AsianDEC.: 4.0+1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.21-YEAR CHANGE: +0.2Teenagers (16-19)DEC.: 15.21-MONTH CHANGE: -1.91-YEAR CHANGE: -2.7DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT (in weeks)AverageDEC.: 17.31-MONTH CHANGE: -1.7%1-YEAR CHANGE: -10.8%MedianDEC.: 8.51-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -9.6SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedDEC.: 62.8%1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.4Labor force (workers and unemployed)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (93%); JOB CREATION (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); ESTATE TAX (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); HOME PRICES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); HURRICANES (60%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (52%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (67%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006



118 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: His Airline Didn't Skimp On the Cheese 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH NOCERA

 BODY:
CAN the airline business really be this simple?
 ''You need to be consistent and reliable,'' said Gordon M. Bethune, the best unemployed airline executive in the United States. ''You need to control your costs, but you can't let cost-cutting take over your business. You need to gain the trust of your employees. You need to treat your customers well. Other guys always wanted to talk about market share. They'd lose your bags but they'd show great movies. We always focused on the fundamentals: get Joe Nocera to New York, on time, with his underwear. There's no secret formula for this #%&*.''
Hmmm. Perhaps I should rephrase the question. With United, Delta and Northwest currently in bankruptcy; with soaring fuel prices; with fierce competition from low-cost upstarts; with customers embittered by the disappearance of amenities like legroom; with the need to extract painful concessions from the various airline unions -- and with not a single one of the so-called legacy airlines turning an annual profit these days -- can running an airline really be as simple as Mr. Bethune makes it out to be? 
 Actually, to judge by what he did at Continental from 1994, when he became its chief executive, until Jan. 1 of last year, when he retired at the age of 63 under rather odd circumstances, the answer would appear to be yes. 
 Surprised? You shouldn't be. Mr. Bethune's essential message -- that the airline business has been mismanaged by executives who do not really understand what matters to customers -- is the dirty little secret of the industry. ''If you are going to be in the watch business,'' he likes to say, ''it helps to know how a watch works.'' There is something almost criminal about seeing Mr. Bethune on the sidelines at a time when so many airlines are struggling, including Independence Air, which quit operating this week. True, he says he has no particular desire to jump back in the game: ''I'm a retired employee and it feels good,'' he told me. And it's also true that he is not exactly a kid anymore, though when I met up with him during a recent visit to New York, he certainly did not appear to have lost a step. But as a former Navy airplane mechanic who rose through the ranks at Boeing before being tapped to run a deeply troubled Continental, Mr. Bethune sure knows how the watch works. He proved it by transforming a broken-down carrier, which booked a loss of more than $600 million in 1994, into what is unquestionably the best-performing airline this side of Southwest.
 OF course, given his fierce pride in the Continental transformation, and his undisguised contempt for most of the airline's rivals, it's easy enough to understand why the boards of United, Delta and the rest have not come knocking. When I asked Mr. Bethune, for instance, what he would do right now if he were running United Airlines, which will still face plenty of problems even when it emerges from bankruptcy as it hopes to do in February, Mr. Bethune replied, ''I think prayer would help.''
 That is a quintessential Bethune remark. A big, blustery, no-nonsense executive, Mr. Bethune swears profusely and has the timing of a stand-up comic. He is full of pithy remarks that he has refined to a fare-thee-well. (''Someone asked me once how come I knew so much about people.'' Pause. ''I told him it was because I used to be one.'') But in between the jokes, what he has to say is pretty serious, and Continental's competitors would do well to take it to heart. 
 Take cost-cutting. (Please.) ''His pizza analogy is one I've always liked,'' said the industry consultant Robert W. Mann. Here is the pizza analogy, which Mr. Bethune told me three times in the course of a two-hour interview. (He wanted to make sure I got the point.) ''If you are being rewarded for finding ways to make pizza cheaper, eventually you'll take the cheese off,'' he said. ''You'll make it so cheap that people won't eat it.''
 That, in his view, is what the old-line airlines have done in eliminating ''extras'' like food. Continental still serves hot meals on lengthy flights, because, Mr. Bethune says, customers care about that. ''There is value in serving muffins and a banana at 7 in the morning,'' he said. ''There is value in keeping pillows and blankets, and in making sure the planes are clean. Why would you get rid of those things? By keeping them, we are giving customers a reason to pay us a few more dollars to get to Seattle.'' Makes sense, doesn't it?
 Or take goal-setting. ''I asked an executive at an energy company once what he rewarded, and he said R.O.E. -- return on equity,'' Mr. Bethune told me. ''I told him that if you asked someone on the second shift what roe was, he'd probably say fish eggs. When I came to Continental, we defined success as getting the planes to their destination on time. You should tell people how to keep score, and reward them for it. But you better make sure you're using the right score card.'' 
 Or take labor relations. When Mr. Bethune first got to Continental, its relations with its unions were awful. Continental's unions had suffered mightily under the former chief executive, Frank Lorenzo, who, says Michael Boyd, an industry analyst, ''had trashed the place and walked away.'' Specifically, Mr. Lorenzo had put Continental into bankruptcy to abrogate its union contracts and force employees to work for less. (Mr. Lorenzo has always insisted that he did what he had to do to save the airline.) Things had become so bad that Continental was close to its third round of bankruptcy not long after Mr. Bethune arrived on the scene and discovered how bad things were. 
 ''We could have turned it into something like Southwest,'' Mr. Bethune said. ''But that would have meant firing two-thirds of the people. You can't walk into the middle of a 60-year-old airline and make it into something it's not.'' And while he did not give the unions their old pay and benefits back, he did give them something they had not had before: straight talk. ''He told the unions that as the business improved, Continental would pay more,'' Mr. Mann said. Which it did -- or at least it did until 2001, when, in Mr. Mann's words, ''the lid blew off the industry.'' 
 Here is something else Mr. Bethune did not do. He did not try to offload Continental's pension onto the federal government. Indeed, Continental has both a pension plan and a 401(k). When I asked him if that put Continental at a competitive disadvantage with the low-cost airlines, Mr. Bethune gave me one of those ''what planet were you born on'' looks.
 In 2002, he replied, Continental lost $388 million. ''Our chief financial officer re-ran the numbers using the assumption that every employee had only been here for two years,'' he said. ''We would have made $420 million. So, yeah, all I have to do is fire my people every few years, and I'll be on the cover of Fortune. But that's not how to run an airline. In fact, that's not how to run any business.'' 
 Given the extent to which he was admired, both by his own employees and by airline industry observers, why isn't Mr. Bethune still running Continental? The sad answer is that he left as a result of a power struggle with David Bonderman, the financier whose firm, Texas Pacific, had at one time been Continental's largest shareholder. Indeed, Mr. Bethune and Mr. Bonderman first crossed swords when Mr. Bethune and his management team, in effect, blocked an effort to merge Continental with Delta because the Continental employees would have gotten the short end of the stick.
 From then on, the relationship only grew worse until finally Mr. Bethune and Mr. Bonderman made a strange sort of peace. Mr. Bethune agreed to leave his post at the end of 2004, if Mr. Bonderman left the board. And that's what happened. One of Mr. Bethune's proteges, the former chief financial officer, Lawrence W. Kellner, is now running the show, using the same principles that Mr. Bethune first brought to Continental. Indeed, Continental's current management has all been around for years -- like Mr. Bethune, they know how a watch works.
 The post-9/11 era has been rough on the big airlines, of course. Continental, which was highly profitable through the latter half of the 1990's, has lost money recently, just as its competitors have. But it has lost considerably less and has not come close to bankruptcy. Mr. Bethune's essential belief is that when things turn up again, his old airline will be poised to make real money. But for now, he is happy just to see it beat the competition. ''I used to tell the board,'' he said, ''if we have six three-legged horses and we put them in a race, one of them is going to win. It's not pretty, but you're still beating those other five horses.''
 In the third quarter, in fact, despite all the problems facing the industry, Continental made $61 million. (For the year, however, it expects to post a substantial loss.) Last year, it also went back to its unions and asked for nearly $500 million in concessions. You may have missed this. The Continental negotiations lacked the histrionics that usually accompany labor givebacks in the airline industry. But the company told its unions that if they agreed to the givebacks, Continental would be able to go into ''growth mode'' to prepare for a better future -- and that is what it has done, buying new airplanes and expanding into places like Beijing and New Delhi. And because of the trust that had been engendered between management and labor, the unions agreed. In some ways, that may be Mr. Bethune's most important legacy.
 ''You know,'' Mr. Bethune said as we departed, ''I get $35,000 for the lecture I just gave you.'' He laughed. ''For an hour of %$&#*& work! It sure beats running an airline.'' 
 I hope he doesn't mean it.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gordon Bethune

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (52%) 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (85%); BOEING CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Continental Airlines

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); UAL (NYSE) (85%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%)

PERSON: Gordon Bethune; Joseph Nocera

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006



119 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: An Anemic Jobs Recovery

 BODY:
Responding to yesterday's government report showing paltry job creation in December, Treasury Secretary John Snow urged Americans not to overreact to one month's snapshot, and to focus on the bigger picture. But that picture is not so pretty. 
 In 2005, the economy added about 2 million jobs. At this point in the last recovery, the yearly job-gain total was 3.5 million.
The longer view is even uglier. Job growth in the current period is the worst by far of the four comparable economic upturns since the 1960's: 2.7 percent versus the 7.8 percent tallied in the weakest of those earlier recoveries. 
 It's little wonder, then, that President Bush cherry-picked his way through the latest economic figures in his speech yesterday before the Economic Club of Chicago, rattling off numbers without context. The president's prescription -- more tax cuts -- has failed in the past to create a robust job market and is still not the right answer. 
 For the past two years, average hourly wages and weekly salaries have been flat or falling. Americans' borrowing binge has masked the decline in earning power, but good jobs and rising wages are essential for widespread prosperity. Without them, economic growth has become increasingly concentrated among corporations, shareholders and the top 20 percent or so of earners. The holiday shopping season illustrates this situation: retailers that cater to lower- and middle-income shoppers, like Wal-Mart, Sears and Kohl's had disappointing results, while higher-end chains, like Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom, thrived. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); RETAILERS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%) Labor; Labor; Editorials; Unemployment; United States Economy; Wages and Salaries

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) John (Sec) Snow

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006



120 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Working Together for the Average Joe

 BODY:
The gadget competition doesn't have to be a zero-sum game. The sooner the geeks figure that out, the better off we'll all be.
 This week in Las Vegas, companies rolled out their newest technologies at the annual Consumer Electronics Show, and next week Apple will hold its own boutique version of that, MacWorld, in San Francisco. Times are good for the industry. Sales of consumer electronics -- including cellphones, digital cameras and plasma-screen televisions -- climbed to $126 billion last year in the United States alone. 
People would be willing to spend even more if companies in the industry bothered to make their products work with one another. According to Forrester Research, companies are losing a combined $3.8 billion in estimated sales of additional products, content and services by selling stand-alone devices and leaving consumers to make them work together or -- as is more often the case -- not work together. It predicts that such lost sales will rise to $13 billion by 2010 if things don't improve.
 For instance, half the people who own high-definition television sets don't actually get high-definition programming, the report says. One out of three digital-camera owners don't print pictures at all. This extends to personal computers and the gadgets they're supposed to be converging with into a seamless whole. They're more often like unhappy couples: sharing space but not speaking to each other. 
 Tech visionaries love to wax poetic about the networked home, straight out of the Jetsons. Maybe if you're Bill Gates. For most people, the reality is a Babel of devices and technical-support staffs that blame other companies and don't help. Computer owners have to become security experts, network specialists and troubleshooters. So people buy less.
 The rewards are rich, and first isn't always best. The iPod wasn't even close to being the earliest digital music player on the market. Now it's the leader because average people found it usable. Still, Apple would do well to ditch the closed-circuit approach and cooperate with other companies better -- or risk repeating the mistakes of the past.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); TRADE SHOWS (77%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%) Electronics; Editorials; International Consumer Electronics Show ; Sales; Computers and the Internet; Trade Shows and Fairs; Electronics

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Computer Inc

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%) NEVADA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006



121 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: By Order of North Korea, U.N. Halts Food Assistance There

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
The United Nations World Food Program, which was helping to feed a third of the 22 million people of North Korea as recently as August, has ended all feeding programs there at the request of the government.
 ''Operations are completely halted,'' Richard Ragan, an American who represents the agency in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, said Friday in a telephone interview. Noting that government pressure had already forced a cutback this fall, he said: ''We were feeding 600,000 people in December. As of Jan. 1 we are feeding nobody.''
 The agency has closed its five offices outside Pyongyang, closed its 19 food processing plants in the country and cut its foreign staff there nearly in half, to about 25, Mr. Ragan said from Beijing. In the last decade the agency has spent an estimated $1.7 billion to feed North Koreans. A major source of food for the nation's poor, the agency is believed to have helped cut malnutrition rates. 
 North Korean officials have justified the shutdown by saying that after a decade of receiving Western aid they want Western groups to shift to work that will help the nation become more developed. With the severe famine of the mid-1990's a fading memory, the officials also say that this fall's bumper harvest is putting the country on the road to agricultural self-sufficiency.
 ''Agriculture should be put forward as the main front of the economic construction this year, too, and all the forces be mobilized and concentrated on farming once again,'' the nation's annual New Year's editorial, a major policy document, said Sunday.
 Through a nationwide mobilization, the North increased its estimated grain production to 3.64 million tons, the highest level in a decade, according to the United States Agriculture Department.
 In a symbolic gesture, the North shipped one ton of rice to South Korea last week, the first such food shipment since 1984.
 But many foreign analysts say the secretive nation's rulers are pursuing a strategy to cut the number of Westerners roaming the countryside inspecting food distribution networks. While World Food Program aid was being phased out, food aid from China and South Korea rose. Last year China and the South each sent about 500,000 tons of grain.
 ''One of their key concerns was about how we monitored our program,'' Mr. Ragan said, noting that food program workers made 300 to 500 inspection visits each month. ''The Chinese don't monitor at all, as far as I am aware,'' he said, while South Korea has announced that it plans to make 20 inspection visits this year. 
 In addition to evicting the World Food Program's staff, the North has ordered the 12 European aid groups working in the country to leave by spring. Three left in recent days because of an expulsion order that was imposed last fall after the European Union proposed a United Nations resolution criticizing the North's human rights record. 
 Another condemnation was issued in the United States on Wednesday, when the Heritage Foundation, a conservative policy institute, released its annual Index of Economic Freedom. North Korea was ranked 157th -- last place.
 In October, the North rescinded a free-market development when it banned the private sale of grain. By restoring the state-run rationing system, the government apparently hopes to win more control over the urban population, which was restive over high food prices in private markets. But the end of private markets is expected to alienate farmers and cut food production next summer.
 The end of a vigorous inspection system by foreign aid programs has alienated the Bush administration, long a skeptic of Kim Jong Il, North Korea's leader. The United States has suspended delivery of about 25,000 tons of aid promised in 2005.
 ''Unless we can be sure that the food we give is really going to the people who need it, then we can't continue to provide aid,'' Adam Ereli, a State Department spokesman, said in Washington on Dec. 29. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); MALNUTRITION (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD INSPECTION (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); FAMINE (78%); TRENDS (76%); CLOSINGS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); AGRICULTURE (70%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (70%); GRAIN FARMING (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Food; Economic Conditions and Trends; Food

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (91%) United Nations World Food Program

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%) North Korea 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006



122 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; GAME THEORY/POKER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: The Poker World Is Flat, Part 2

BYLINE: By James McManus

 BODY:
As I noted last week, Thomas L. Friedman's best seller ''The World Is Flat'' reveals how a convergence of Internet technology with economic and political developments has leveled the global business playing field. The book rightly emphasizes the role people from India play in this process. Even so, it never mentions Anurag Dikshit (pronounced DIX-it), the software whiz educated at the Indian Institute of Technology who in 2000 created the platform for PartyPoker.com. PartyPoker quickly became the world's busiest card-playing Web site, enabling tens of thousands of players around the world to compete in real time at virtual nine-handed tables. The site supercharged a vast industry, creating many thousands of jobs and an 11-figure stock valuation for its shareholders. 
 Friedman's book also mentions Bill Gates 17 times but poker not once, in spite of the game's huge influence on Gates during his two years at Harvard. In his 1995 memoir, ''The Road Ahead,'' Gates recalled marathon dorm sessions that he found at least as productive and intellectually stimulating as his time spent in class. ''In poker, a player collects different pieces of information,'' he wrote, ''and then crunches all that data together to devise a plan for his own hand. I got pretty good at this kind of information processing.'' The planet's reigning e-businessman -- and most copious philanthropist -- he also won a significant portion of Microsoft's start-up costs in those games, but it wasn't just dollars being accumulated; it was ''the poker strategizing experience.''
Leaving such stories out of an otherwise comprehensive survey of the flattening world extends a long pattern in which historians, biographers, memoirists and dictionary editors tend to strike gambling from the record. They often do so in the face of abundant evidence that poker playing helped numerous movers and shakers make their way in the world -- that it was essential to the development of their character, education, bankroll and modus operandi. 
 ''He played poker all through his presidential career for money.'' That was William Tecumseh Sherman writing in 1889 to the president of Harvard about Ulysses S. Grant, who had died four years earlier. Sherman well knew of his comrade in arms' lifelong penchant for risk-taking in battle, business and politics, and of his keen feel for poker. Yet Grant's majestic 1,200-page ''Personal Memoirs'' made no mention of poker, or of any gambling. Nor do most prize-winning works of Civil War history. Several generations of Americans therefore never realized that during the conflict most officers and enlisted men on both sides played the game avidly, learning to apply its tactics in commercial, diplomatic and military contexts as well.
 The habit of sweeping poker under the rug persisted in the 20th century. Presidents Lyndon B. Johnson, Dwight D. Eisenhower and both Roosevelts -- along with many of their biographers -- played down their affection for poker. Historians and politicians have numerous motives, of course, but it's clear that quite a few of them still saw poker as either a dirty secret or ''just a game,'' not a key to achievement. 
 And then there was Nixon. As a young Navy lieutenant, Richard M. Nixon took home almost $8,000 -- a genuinely whopping haul in the 1940's -- from shipboard games in the Pacific. Once, while holding the ace of diamonds, he drew four cards to make a royal flush, about a 650,000-to-1 shot. ''I was naturally excited,'' he wrote on page 34 of his autobiography, ''RN.'' ''But I played it with a true poker face, and won a substantial pot.'' In the 1,136 pages of ''RN,'' that's the second and final use of the p-word, and one he's at pains not to highlight -- even though he was about to use this $8,000 to finance his first Congressional campaign, in 1948, which he won.
 In ''Nixon Agonistes'' (1970), Garry Wills peeled back the rug. He noted that his subject ''got to know his fellows, not in foxholes but across the tables, in endless wartime poker games.'' 
 Since most American fighting men played, Nixon's participation could be seen simply as an effort to be a regular guy, but Wills showed how much more to it there was: ''His Quaker mother did not approve of gambling, but he had eased his way into the military past her scruples. The war became a moral hiatus. Besides, motive is what matters, and Nick's motive was pure, was puritan. He was not playing games; with him it was a business.'' 
 Long one of our most penetrating historians, Wills was a pioneer in making the ethos of poker a window into the soul of our 37th president. He quotes the fellow officer who had coached ''Nick'' on five-card-draw strategy: ''Out there Nixon passed over the traditional Quaker objections to gambling. Why? He needed money. He learned poker and mastered it to such a degree that he won a sizable amount, and it became the sole financial foundation of his career.'' Looking ahead a few decades, Wills adds, ''It helps, watching Nixon's 'ruthless' single-mindedness when bigger pots have been at stake, to remember those poker days.'' 
 Sometimes, in other words, the game is more than just a game. And with Yale and Harvard competing in annual hold'em tournaments and Sheriff Bill Hickok's final table morphing into Anurag Dikshit's, maybe it's time we owned up to this vital, if often less than heroic, facet of our national character.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The Poker column on Saturday, about how the game had shaped the character of prominent American politicians and businessmen, misstated the year in which Richard M. Nixon planned to use his $8,000 in winnings to finance his first Congressional campaign. It was 1946, not 1948.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POKER (91%); CARD GAMES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); WRITERS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); POLITICS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); CIVIL WAR (67%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); HISTORY (62%) Poker (Card Game); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: PartyPoker.com

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (88%); BILL GATES (79%); ANURAG DIKSHIT (71%) James Mcmanus; Anurag Dikshit

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (73%) INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006



123 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: The (Mumbled) Halting Voice -- of a Generation

BYLINE: By DENNIS LIM

 BODY:
THE angsty youth, reflective and thin-skinned, is one of American indie cinema's favorite archetypes, but the writer and director Andrew Bujalski manages to subvert it in one crucial respect. Instead of being motormouths, his characters speak in half-sentences that trail off into excruciating silences. Compared to Richard Linklater's earnest philosophers or Noah Baumbach's poised wiseacres, Mr. Bujalski's sheepish drifters are mortifyingly tongue-tied. But their verbal tics, taken together, could stand as a fumbling generation's poignant cri de coeur: ''I guess,'' ''I mean,'' ''I'm sorry,'' ''I don't know.''
 At 28, Mr. Bujalski has already made two homespun, micro-budget features, both set deep within the befuddling gray zone of post-collegiate life. In his first, ''Funny Ha Ha,'' Marnie, a 23-year-old recent graduate, floats between dead-end temp jobs while nursing an unrequited crush and fending off an unwelcome suitor. His latest, ''Mutual Appreciation,'' centers on a more ambitious but equally restless protagonist: Alan, an indie rocker who arrives in Brooklyn with a gig but no band mates. 
Marnie and Alan are the most unassuming of existentialist heroes, slouching toward not epiphanies but the tiniest shifts in perspective. Both films are slow-burning comedies about the fear of adulthood made by someone who isn't yet inclined to sentimentalize or belittle these threshold years. As Mr. Bujalski presents it, the quarter-life crisis is an inherently funny condition, but it's not necessarily a laughing matter.
 ''Funny Ha Ha'' was completed in 2002, but failed to secure distribution despite strong endorsements from critics and bloggers, not to mention a ''Someone to Watch'' prize at the 2004 Independent Spirit Awards. In April of last year, with the help of Houston King, a fan turned investor, Mr. Bujalski finally released his film through a company called Goodbye Cruel Releasing.
 Though still an industry outsider, Mr. Bujalski is emerging as a critics' favorite -- A. O. Scott of The New York Times named ''Funny Ha Ha'' one of the 10 best films of 2005. The film was also a modest hipster phenomenon long before it opened, thanks to Sundance Channel showings and one-off screenings at colleges and art houses. On a recent Saturday evening, about 150 people, many of whom would not have looked out of place in Mr. Bujalski's movies, turned up at Anthology Film Archives in the East Village for the barely publicized local premiere of ''Mutual Appreciation.'' (If no distributor comes forward, Mr. Bujalski and Mr. King say they will release the film themselves later this year; in the meantime, DVD's are for sale at www.mutualappreciation.com.)
 The post-screening discussion at Anthology opened with a predictable question: How much of the film was improvised and how much scripted? 
 ''I've gotten that at every Q & A,'' Mr. Bujalski said the following day. ''I could have said, 'This is now a question I've answered a hundred times, so I have a scripted response, but I'm also making it up as I go along, so maybe this is a good analogy for how it works.' ''
 But the start-stop chatter in Mr. Bujalski's films is less arbitrary than it seems. A master of the mixed message and a veritable sculptor of dead air, he's deft at showing how inarticulateness can serve as defense tactic and passive-aggressive weapon. 
 Besides keen-eared writing, a key to his films' eccentric charm is his strange talent for casting nonprofessionals, often his friends. Kate Dollenmayer, the star of ''Funny Ha Ha,'' and Justin Rice, the lead in ''Mutual Appreciation,'' are both former roommates (with real-world accomplishments -- Ms. Dollenmayer worked as an animator on Richard Linklater's ''Waking Life'' and Mr. Rice leads the indie-pop band Bishop Allen). Mr. Bujalski assigned himself the role of the spurned love interest in both films. 
 His preference for nonactors dates to his senior thesis film at Harvard; a change in shooting location abruptly forced him to write new scenes for new performers, and he found he had an easier rapport with the nonpros in his cast. The filmmaker Chantal Akerman, who was Mr. Bujalski's thesis adviser, recalled that once she suggested he cast a fellow student she had spotted outside her office. ''I said, 'Run after her -- she could be good,' '' Ms. Akerman said in a recent telephone interview. 
 In today's independent film landscape, Mr. Bujalski is at once an anomaly and a stubborn idealist. While digital video is the default medium for low-cost moviemaking, he insists on grainy 16 millimeter. ''There's a deliberateness to film,'' he said. ''If these films were on video they would feel a lot more frivolous. Film allows you to make the statement that this is on purpose.'' Mr. Bujalski also prefers the tactile splices of flatbed editing to cutting with a desktop computer. 
 Robb Moss, a documentarian and Harvard lecturer who lent Mr. Bujalski a Steenbeck editing machine for ''Funny Ha Ha,'' said, ''One of the charms of Andrew's films is that they spend no energy convincing you of his ambition.''
 Mr. Bujalski, who lives in Boston and still holds down a day job as a junior high school substitute teacher, cautioned against the temptation to romanticize his D.I.Y. process. ''It's completely unsustainable,'' he said. ''I've been absurdly lucky.'' (Both his films were financed through a combination of savings, grants, private investment and contributions from family and friends.) 
 He now finds himself grappling with the same career anxieties as his ''Mutual Appreciation'' hero, who goes through the motions of networking and self-promotion with an ambivalence that often shades into dread. Mr. Bujalski has acquired an agent and is looking to the economic models of independent stalwarts like John Cassavetes and John Sayles, who financed personal projects by taking on work for hire. Hoping for a shot at Hollywood screenwriting, he recently connected with some executives in Los Angeles, though he said he treated the meetings more like therapy sessions: ''I would go in and tell them my problems,'' he said. ''They always had a couch.''
 As the big 3-0 looms for this chronicler of 20-something malaise, his first two features increasingly represent not just an impractical way of working but also a quixotic way of life. ''As I get older and my friends get older,'' Mr. Bujalski said, ''it's harder to say to people, 'Take a month off from your life and work for me for free.' ''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 8 about the filmmaker Andrew Bujalski misidentified the investor in Goodbye Cruel Releasing, the company that released his movie ''Funny Ha Ha.'' The investor is Gary Stewart, not Houston King, who is the company's head of distribution.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Andrew Bujalski, above, a maker of micro-budget films about post-collegiate life. Far left, Christian Rudder in ''Funny Ha Ha.'' (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Goodbye Cruel Releasing)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); WRITERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); PHILOSOPHY (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); POP & ROCK (66%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (64%) Motion Pictures

PERSON: Dennis Lim; Andrew Bujalski

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



124 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Go West, Young Playwright

BYLINE: By IRENE LACHER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
A DOZEN years after the playwright Robert Schenkkan's dismal bout with Broadway, he has returned to friendly territory -- the familiar world of regional theater. At the moment, he is back at the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles with his new play, ''Lewis and Clark Reach the Euphrates,'' which critiques the war in Iraq.
 The Taper helped him polish an acclaimed production of his epic American history play, ''The Kentucky Cycle,'' before it went on to make a bit of history itself -- the play was the first to win a Pulitzer Prize before reaching New York. If the worst of times followed with his dashed hopes for the play on Broadway, where it closed after 33 performances, its flowering in Los Angeles was certainly the best of times for Mr. Schenkkan.
 ''It feels like home,'' he said at the Taper's offices midway into the run, which ends Jan. 22. ''There are people there who support not just this play but my work as a writer.'' 
 Mr. Schenkkan, 52, has a similar nurturing relationship with the Oregon Shakespeare Festival in Ashland, near his current hometown, Seattle. Last February, the Oregon Shakes, as it's known, mounted the first production of ''By the Rivers of Babylon,'' a romantic duet. It is one of four new plays of his having premieres within a year. The other two are associated with home turf as well: last November, his alma mater, the University of Texas at Austin, produced his period screwball comedy, ''The Marriage of Miss Hollywood and King Neptune,'' and the Seattle Children's Theater has commissioned a new adaptation of ''The Devil and Daniel Webster'' for a February production. 
 Mr. Schenkkan has also been busy with film and television work, a lucrative perk of winning a Pulitzer. His was a co-screenwriter on ''The Quiet American,'' the 2002 movie based on the Graham Greene novel, and he is about to start working on a HBO mini-series about the war in the Pacific for Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks. 
 Yet apart from ''Handler,'' a drama about snake-handling Pentecostalists that had its premiere in Atlanta in 2000, this crop of plays represents Mr. Schenkkan's first work for the stage since ''The Kentucky Cycle'' opened on Broadway in November 1993. Looking back on that debacle, he said, ''I think it's harder, if you live and work outside of New York, to be produced in New York.''
 Casually dressed in a black suit, Mr. Schenkkan, pale-skinned and intense, chose his words carefully, occasionally underlining a point with a wave of his right hand. ''Every city holds its own a little closer, and New York is no different from any other city as far as that goes,'' he said. ''You always hope a play will be judged on its own merits against what it's trying to do and more often than not I think that happens, but I don't think it always does.'' 
 On the other hand, a play developed out of town can sail in on good word of mouth, whereas a piece born and bred in New York may come to the stage before it has any or, even worse, with bad buzz before the play has been polished to an opening-night sheen, as Manny Kladitis, one of ''The Kentucky Cycle's'' New York producers, recently observed. 
 Certainly ''The Kentucky Cycle'' had the advantage of the Pulitzer's imprimatur when it arrived in New York, but it wasn't enough to surmount the daunting economics of Broadway -- filling a large house for an open-ended production without a subscription audience to guarantee filled seats. Not to mention the challenge of luring ticket buyers to a two-part play -- a format that has only rarely been ventured, even in New York. 
 Still, Mr. Kladitis noted that Tony Kushner's two-part production of ''Angels in America'' later rose to the same challenges. He still finds it hard to explain the poor showing on Broadway. ''You've really got to know your audience in New York,'' he said. ''When I produce, the very first question I say to myself is, what about this piece is going to make two people from New Jersey who work in Manhattan go home, arrange for babysitters, shower, change, get back in their car and come back into the city? You've got to have a hook or an appeal for them to do it and oftentimes we miss.'' 
 Mr. Schenkkan said he still believed strongly that audiences ''are hungry for meaningful cultural experiences'' and said he wouldn't shy away from another two-part play if the material called for it. Nonetheless, with the picaresque tragicomedy ''Lewis and Clark,'' he manages to revisit some of the sobering themes that threaded through ''The Kentucky Cycle'' -- the role of violence in shaping American history, the subjugation of women -- in a little over two hours.
 The League of Resident Theaters, an organization of professional regional theaters that includes several Off Broadway houses, is negotiating to mount a couple of subsequent productions within the next 18 months, Mr. Schenkkan said, although he declined to disclose the locations as a courtesy to the group. ''That pleases me a lot because there's this misconception that plays leap fully formed from the forehead of writers like Minerva, and of course they don't,'' he said. ''It takes a couple of productions to really work things out -- not just text but performing style and design.'' 
 This first production of ''Lewis and Clark,'' starring James Barbour and Jeffrey Nordling and directed by Gregory Boyd, opened to tepid reviews. Writing in The Los Angeles Times, Sean Mitchell called it ''a darkly comical meditation'' that ''doesn't grow into more than a fanciful notion.''
 Mr. Schenkkan said the play sprang from his anger and frustration over the war in Iraq. After deciding against a straight narrative about the causes of the war, he found his way into the subject during a drive in Seattle with Puget Sound sparkling on his left. Lewis and Clark popped into his mind because the 200th anniversary of their arrival on the West Coast was in the news at the time. Mr. Schenkkan recalled Mr. Clark's journal entry on reaching the Pacific. ''All he could manage were six words: 'Ocean in view. Oh the joy,' '' he said. ''It's very moving. And suddenly I had this image of Lewis and Clark reaching the Euphrates.''
 Mr. Schenkkan eventually created a river play, billed as ''Huck Finn meets 'The Heart of Darkness,' '' only this river crosses boundaries of space and time to suggest that Lewis and Clark's journey was America's first step toward imperialism. By having the explorers bring commercial colonialism to Native Americans and stumble into Cuba in 1898, the Philippines in 1901, Vietnam in 1968 and on to Iraq, he locates the roots of contemporary foreign policy in the doctrine of Manifest Destiny and the ''Empire of Liberty'' envisioned by Jefferson. In the process, Mr. Schenkkan suggests that America is doomed to repeat its history.
 He said he hoped viewing the Iraq war through such a prism would make it easier for audiences to hear ideas that otherwise might be dismissed as partisan. ''Sometimes you can be so overwhelmed by the events of the present, so emotionally wrought, that it is difficult to really see clearly what is happening,'' he said. ''We're just inundated with data and news, but context is hard to come by.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The cast of ''Lewis and Clark Reach the Euphrates,'' front, left to right: Jeffrey Nordling, James Barbour, Tess Lina and Ty Mayberry
rear: Eugene Lee, left, and Tony Amendola. Below left, the author Robert Schenkkan, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Craig Schwartz)
 (Photo by Jamie Rector for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (93%); THEATER (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); HISTORY (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); FESTIVALS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (67%) Theater; Mark Taper Forum

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (56%); TOM HANKS (50%) Irene Lacher; Robert Schenkkan

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



125 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: 'Trust Me, I'm Funnier With the Moustache'

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
ONE morning in early December, Jason Lee was standing outside a doughnut shop in the Los Angeles suburb of Van Nuys, his thumbs stabbing furiously at the keyboard of his BlackBerry, when his director abruptly called, ''Action!'' In a single continuous motion, Mr. Lee slipped the gadget into his jeans pocket and darted into the store, racing out moments later with a box of doughnuts under his arm and a mischievous grin on his face. He performed a few more takes of the simulated theft, each time wearing a different raggedy flannel shirt and that same smirk, then returned to his off-camera position and resumed composing his e-mail messages. ''Such is the life of Earl Hickey,'' Mr. Lee said with a shrug. 
 Four months into his run as the title character on NBC's ''My Name Is Earl,'' Mr. Lee understands that the boundary between his on-screen alter ego -- a likable loser determined to make amends to everyone he's ever wronged -- and his own identity has been obliterated. Fans of the sitcom who don't know Mr. Lee's name now feel perfectly comfortable addressing this 35-year-old actor in public as ''Hey, Earl!'' And last week, NBC moved ''My Name Is Earl'' (on which Mr. Lee also serves as a producer) into the 9 p.m. Thursday time slot that has traditionally served as the cornerstone of the network's prime-time lineup.
All of which makes it that much harder for Mr. Lee to cast himself in the role that audiences most closely associate with him: the perennial underdog. ''Everybody keeps asking, 'How does it feel to be saving NBC?' '' Mr. Lee said while eating barbecue potato chips. ''I'm just trying to get enough sleep to be back at work at 6 a.m. the next day.''
 Still, Mr. Lee would like to draw a few distinctions between himself and his shiftless television persona. ''Earl was one of those kids that hung out at the arcade, smoked weed and stole people's quarters to play pinball,'' he said. ''I was more the athletic Orange County kid who surfed and skateboarded and raced bicycles.''
 In fact, to legions of Southern Californians, Mr. Lee was best known during the late 1980's and early 90's as one of the region's most accomplished professional skateboarders, and as a co-owner of Stereo Sound Agency, a company that makes avant-garde skateboarding gear, videos and clothing. 
 ''When everyone was doing skateboard videos with punk-rock soundtracks, he was using jazz music,'' said Ethan Suplee, who plays Mr. Lee's dimwitted brother, Randy, on ''Earl.'' ''He was making skateboards that had Jean Harlow's face when everyone was using comic-book graphics. It's almost too pretty to ride -- it's a piece of artwork.''
 When Mr. Lee temporarily retired from the sport -- at the ripe old age of 24 -- and embarked on an acting career, his earnestly chatty approach to auditioning made him a welcome presence in casting sessions. ''He had never really acted before, but we just dug him so much as a person that we kept asking the casting director to bring him back,'' said the director Kevin Smith, who gave Mr. Lee his first major film role in the 1995 comedy ''Mallrats.'' ''We didn't know anybody in Los Angeles, so we decided to just hang out with Jason when he came to audition.''
 In Mr. Smith's next movie, the postmodern romantic comedy ''Chasing Amy,'' it was Mr. Lee's performance as a smart-alecky but sensitive comic-book artist that introduced him to a wider audience. ''His humor can be heartbreaking, but there's always that moment where Jason finds an answer or has a breakthrough, and he'll pause, and that smile busts out,'' said Cameron Crowe, who cast Mr. Lee as the cynical rock musician Jeff Bebe in the film ''Almost Famous.'' ''He made the character a fragile ego in need of a lot of love.''
 While Mr. Lee continued to work steadily after ''Chasing Amy,'' he was most often found playing sidekicks to established stars like Tom Cruise (in Mr. Crowe's film ''Vanilla Sky'') and Will Smith (in Tony Scott's ''Enemy of the State''). 
 ''Jason can be a tricky actor, because you never see him the same way twice, and yet he seems like the guy who lives down the street,'' said the filmmaker Brad Bird, who cast Mr. Lee as the voice of the villain Syndrome in his 2004 animated feature, ''The Incredibles.'' ''Anybody that is smart enough can see his potential, but it requires that people think of him in a variety of different ways, and that's something that Hollywood doesn't always do well.''
 Mr. Lee said he preferred not to have his name atop the marquee, anyway. ''With that comes more responsibility,'' he said, ''and more weight on your shoulders. You don't get as much to play with as the sidekick or the friend who's got problems. The leading man doesn't get to have eccentricities.''
 But when Mr. Smith tried to make a prequel to the Chevy Chase comedy ''Fletch'' for Miramax, he was discouraged by the studio from casting Mr. Lee in the title role. ''From Day 1, I was going, 'Jason is fantastic, Jason will pull it off, Jason, Jason, Jason,' '' Mr. Smith said. ''And for five years, I was repeatedly told: 'No, because Jason's just not a leading man. Jason is a second banana.' '' 
 Last year, when the producers of ''My Name Is Earl'' approached Mr. Lee to star in the pilot, it was Mr. Lee who had to be won over. ''I never, ever, ever, ever wanted to do TV,'' Mr. Lee said, ''but when I read the script, it read like the first 30 pages of a feature film. I couldn't believe it was TV, and I couldn't believe it was NBC.'' 
 After much contemplation, Mr. Lee finally signed onto ''Earl'' as both an actor and a producer, taking an active role in casting guest stars and selecting music for the show, and siding with his production team in a dispute over the scuzzy mustache that has since become synonymous with his character. ''It was like a two-, three-day battle with NBC over whether he could have facial hair,'' said Greg Garcia, the creator and executive producer of ''Earl.'' ''I knew once I shaved him, I would lose. But Jason just said, 'Trust me -- I'm funnier with a mustache.' '' 
 Since the debut of ''Earl'' in September, Mr. Lee and his mustache have attracted some of NBC's biggest audiences of the season, and they are now in the same time slot that ''Cheers'' and ''Seinfeld'' both called home. Though the schedule change will put ''Earl'' in the direct line of fire of ''CSI,'' executives at NBC said they were optimistic that the show's quirky sensibility would help the network reclaim what was once its signature night.
 ''Even if it is not doing the kind of numbers that Thursday has traditionally done, remember that many of the comedies that ultimately became monsters there started from even more humble origins,'' said Kevin Reilly, NBC's president of entertainment. ''A former crook trying to right wrongs is just as unlikely to be watchable as the unemployed, relationship-stunted gang on 'Seinfeld.' '' 
 Mr. Lee said the success of ''Earl'' was not so much a reflection on him as it was an endorsement of an idiosyncratic sensibility that is in short supply on network television. He pointed to a recent episode of the show, which featured on its soundtrack the rarely heard song ''Time Has Told Me'' by the singer-songwriter Nick Drake, as emblematic of the risks he hoped ''Earl'' would continue to take in its new time slot. ''When you're making a television show on a mainstream network like NBC, it's harder to break the rules, and the fact that we're doing that is an accomplishment,'' he said. ''I mean, has there ever been a show on NBC with a freaking Nick Drake song in it?''
 But many of Mr. Lee's friends say the greatest achievement of ''Earl'' has been to shine a spotlight on one of Hollywood's best-kept secrets. ''It's been 10 years coming for Jason,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Driving down Sunset Boulevard and seeing a billboard with your friend's face on it -- and that friend, for once, isn't Ben Affleck or Matt Damon -- is a phenomenal feeling.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jason Lee, right, as the title character in ''My Name Is Earl,'' about a lovable loser out to make amends to all he's wronged. Below, he appears bound by more than family ties to Ethan Suplee, who plays Earl's brother, Randy. (Photographs by Chris Haston/NBC Universal)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL BAKERIES (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); SKATEBOARDING (84%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); JAZZ & BLUES (70%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (68%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (68%); POP & ROCK (60%) Television

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (58%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (58%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

PERSON: Dave Itzkoff; Jason Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



126 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; JOURNEYS: DISASTER AREAS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Calamity? Tourists Are Undeterred

BYLINE: By THOMAS CRAMPTON

 BODY:
FOR all the natural and manmade disasters that have struck tourist destinations over the past year or so, travelers seem more determined than ever to leave home. In fact, not only did calamities like the tsunami in the Indian Ocean or the bombings in Egypt and London do little to slow leisure travel, but the number of people visiting affected travel destinations has, in most cases, bounced quickly back to a higher level than before a disaster struck. 
 It is still too soon to compile year-to-year statistics for tourist destinations that have been affected by disasters over the last 12 months, but industry experts say that the broad trends are already clear -- and leisure travel is expected to increase by nearly 5 percent this year, according to the World Travel and Tourism Council.
''Tourism and travel now seems to bounce back faster and higher each time there is an event of this sort,'' said Ufi Ibrahim, vice president of the London-based tourism organization. ''For London, it was almost as if people who stayed away after the bomb attack then decided to come back twice.'' 
 Early indicators show that the same holds true for other disaster-struck destinations. Statistics compiled by the Bangkok-based Pacific Asia Travel Association, for example, show that monthly visitor arrivals in Sri Lanka, hard hit by the December 2004 tsunami, were higher than one year earlier for every month from March through August of this year. 
 ''This new fast recovery of tourism we are observing is kind of strange,'' said John Koldowski, director for the Strategic Intelligence Center of the Pacific Asia group. ''It makes you think about the adage that any publicity is good publicity.'' 
 Following is a look at the impact on travel for a few of the areas that were hardest hit by disaster:

LONDON
 On July 7, suicide bombers detonated explosives on three trains in the Underground and a bus in Central London. More than 50 people were killed and hundreds injured in the blasts. 
 In the days after the attacks, Londoners proudly spoke of how they had been inured to violence by Irish Republican Army bombings, and quickly adapted to heightened security. Now, life has returned to normal, apart from standard security measures. 
 Immediately after the bombing, the flow of visitors plunged, but by September the number of overseas visitors was increasing over the previous year. The city agency responsible for tourism, Visit London, said the total number of visitors to the city had dropped 21 percent for the period from July to September 2005, compared with 2004. By October, however, the agency said there was a 10.5 percent increase of overseas visitors entering Britain from Western Europe over the same month a year previously.
 While many London businesses have said they were not affected by the downturn, some of the highest-profile tourist sites reported significant drops in those taking tours over the course of the year. Michael Day, chief executive of the Historic Royal Palaces, which operates the Tower of London, Hampton Court, Kensington Palace and Kew Palace, has said that he has yet to see a rebound in tourism and that the decline in visitors to the Tower alone reduced income by $:5 million (about $8.85 million, at $1.77 to the pound). 
 Those wishing to visit London can find good information on Central London hotels through the Visit London Web site, www.visitlondon.com. Rooms in the four-star Thistle Trafalgar Square hotel, (44-870) 333 9119, www.thistlehotels.com, for example, are available for little more than $:100.

PHUKET
 An earthquake off the coast of Indonesia on Dec. 26, 2004 triggered the tsunami that devastated countries around the Indian Ocean. The wave, which killed more than 180,000 people, left 5,400 dead and 5,500 missing in Thailand, many of them tourists on the resort island of Phuket. The disaster plunged the tourist industry, a pillar of the national economy, into crisis. 
 Recovery from the physical damage has been relatively quick, but some tourists remain reluctant to return. ''The tsunami wave washed into the pool here, but nobody was hurt,'' said Anthony Lark, general manager of the $975-a-night Trisara resort, (66-76) 31-0100, (www.phuket.com). ''Our main problem has been convincing Americans that things are safe post-tsunami.''
 Rebuilding began immediately, and visitors are unlikely to encounter visual signs of the wave's devastation. Indeed, some hoteliers insist that the enthusiastic cleanup has left the beaches and waterfront tidier than ever. 
 ''Phuket and the surrounding area has bounced back following last year's tidal wave,'' according to The Phuket Gazette Web site, which features photos of vacationers sunbathing on immaculate post-tsunami beaches. ''Many hotels have taken the opportunity to refurbish or re-build completely, adding even more comfort and even better facilities.'' 
 While Mr. Larks's Trisara resort offers a private swimming pool with each room, those visiting Phuket on a lower budget may want to consider the KataBeach Resort, www.katagroup.com or (66-76) 33-0530, which is on the beach and can cost little more than $100 a night for a double room.

EGYPT
 In three nearly simultaneous suicide bomb attacks on July 23, at the height of Egypt's tourist season, terrorists killed more than 80 and injured more than 150 in the Red Sea resort area of Sharm el Sheik. Two of the bombs ripped through a hotel and a parking lot, while the third exploded in a market in a nearby town where many of the Egyptians employed by the resort hotels live. 
 The attack came less than a year after more than 30 were killed in three blasts at Taba, another Red Sea resort.
 For those considering a visit to Egypt, State Department documents can make for grim reading. ''If U.S. citizens wish to visit the Sinai, despite the multiple recent terror attacks there, they should exercise caution,'' the consular information sheet on Egypt reads. ''As anywhere, travelers may gain a measure of safety by remaining particularly alert to their surroundings, by avoiding crowded tourist areas, and by visiting resorts and hotels with significant physical setback and security procedures.'' 
 Yet following each attack, the influx of visitors fell only momentarily.
 ''Requests for Sharm el Sheik fell off immediately, but people still wanted to travel to Luxor,'' said Joakim Eriksson, director of communication for My Travel Sweden, one of that country's largest outbound tour agencies. ''Travelers from Sweden are sophisticated knowing where to go now.''
 Visitors from the United States, however, tend to make less distinction between destinations within a country and cancel a trip altogether, Mr. Eriksson and other travel professionals said. Statistics on the number of visitors from the United States since the bombings are not yet available. 
 As for places to visit, Naema Bay can be idyllic. A curve of white sand with warm sunshine all year, the area has long been one of Egypt's most popular destinations for Europeans. 
 Prices for rooms in resorts range from $41 a night for the Crowne Plaza Resort Sharm el Sheik, www.crowneplaza.com, (20-69) 3603090) to $120 for the Sharm el Sheik Marriott Beach Resort, www.marriott.com, (20-69) 360-0190.

KEY WEST
 When Hurricane Wilma hit Key West on Oct. 24, the storm produced one of the lowest recorded barometric pressures. It also resulted in a 10-foot storm surge from the Gulf of Mexico that inundated large sections of the lower keys. Many streets were flooded by more than three feet of water, strewing the area with the rusting hulks of cars. 
 ''Theoretically, Wilma should have relieved parking and traffic problems by destroying so many cars,'' said Marshall Calder, senior vice president of marketing for Leading Hotels of the World, an association of luxury hotels. ''In fact, the single highway off the Keys has made removing debris very difficult.'' 
 Now only a little of the physical destruction -- such as plants burned by exposure to salt water -- is still visible, and Mr. Calder said such vegetation will grow back quickly. ''Even after 25 years of doing business in the Caribbean, I am still amazed at the pace of recovery from a storm,'' Mr. Calder said. ''It is the smart visitors who will be coming back to visit in the next few months because they will have the newly renovated properties for a fraction the normal price.''
 The Monroe County Tourist Development Council said that nearly all of the hotels and attractions in the Keys had reopened by the middle of December. One luxury hotel was largely spared by this hurricane season thanks to its position on Islamadora, about a third of the way down the island chain: Cheeca Lodge and Spa, www.cheeca.rockresorts.com, 305-664-4651, which offers rooms at $319 a night, with an additional $39 resort fee.


GRAPHIC: Photos: FLORIDA -- Good times rolled again in Key West weeks after Hurricane Wilma. (Photo by Rob O'Neal/Florida Keys News Bureau via Getty Images)
EGYPT -- Tourists visited the Sphinx in Giza, near Cairo, last month. (Photo by Hasam Jamali/Associated Press)
PHUKET -- Lounge Chairs were full at Patong Beach in November. (Photo by Udo Weitz/European Pressphoto Agency)
 LONDON -- Visitors gathered outside Buckingham Palace in October. (Photo by Lefteris Pitarakis/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (92%); LEISURE TRAVEL (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (91%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TOURISM (90%); TERRORISM (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); WEATHER (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); STATISTICAL METHOD (75%); STATISTICS (75%); HURRICANES (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (66%) Travel and Vacations; Terrorism; Subways; Buses; Travel and Vacations; Transit Systems ; Earthquakes ; Tsunamis and Tidal Waves; Bombs and Explosives; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Wilma (Storm)

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC ASIA TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (55%)

PERSON: Thomas Crampton

GEOGRAPHIC: KEY WEST, FL, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (93%); ASIA (90%); THAILAND (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); EUROPE (50%); WESTERN EUROPE (50%) London (Eng); Great Britain; Phuket Island; Thailand; Egypt; Key West (Fla); Indian Ocean

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



127 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 13; Column 2; Television; CRITIC'S CHOICE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Movies

BYLINE: By Anita Gates

 BODY:

Deadline (2004)
Monday at 9 p.m. on Sundance
''It's like flipping a coin -- heads or tails, live or die,'' George H. Ryan, the former governor of Illinois, says, referring to his state's past record in imposing the death penalty. This important, sometimes heartbreaking documentary is about Mr. Ryan's decision, just before leaving office in 2003, to commute all death sentences in his state, saving the lives of more than 160 inmates. It all started when some journalism students from Northwestern University decided to try to prove the innocence of condemned men as a class project (yes, a class project) and succeeded. Mr. Ryan appointed a commission (above) to study Illinois's criminal justice system, and their findings were devastating. Katy Chevigny and Kirsten Johnson directed. 


HE YES MEN (2003)
Tuesday at 8 p.m. on Showtime and Wednesday at 9:30 p.m. on Showtime 2
Mike Bonanno and Andy Bichlbaum (top, with Mr. Bonanno) have a rather low opinion of the World Trade Organization. But when they created a Web site to make fun of the group, it was mistaken for the real thing and the two men were soon accepting international bookings as W.T.O. spokesmen. The odd part is that their speeches insulted various nations' work ethic and advocated slavery, and audiences still applauded. Turning their adventures into this entertaining documentary was obviously hard work, because the film had three directors: Dan Ollman, Sarah Price and Chris Smith.

LANTANA (2001)
Saturday at midnight on IFC
Anthony LaPaglia plays a police detective, but this complex, beautifully acted thriller doesn't offer the kind of mystery he can solve. By the end of the film, one of three women will be dead: his wife, played by Kerry Armstrong (right, with Mr. LaPaglia); his mistress (Rachael Blake); or his wife's psychiatrist (Barbara Hershey). But the real questions posed by the film are about just how complicated marriage, deceit, honesty and grown-up life in general can be. Ray Lawrence directed.

SOME CAME RUNNING (1958)
Saturday at 8 p.m. on TCM
This was steamy drama for its day, based on James Jones's novel and directed by Vincente Minnelli (who didn't always do musicals, you know). Frank Sinatra stars as Dave Hirsh, a gifted but unsuccessful author just back from the war. In his Indiana hometown, he embarrasses his respectable jeweler brother (Arthur Kennedy), hangs out with a professional gambler named Bama (Dean Martin), submits a story to The Atlantic and finds himself conflicted by that good-girl-bad-girl thing that was so big in the 1950's. Martha Hyer plays an icy blond schoolteacher who melts a little with Dave. Shirley MacLaine (left, with Sinatra and Martin) is the tramp, who drinks too much, does her nails at the bar and loves Dave so much that she decides to settle down in his hometown (there are good jobs at the brassiere factory). Ms. MacLaine injects real poignancy into what could have been a laughably stereotypical role, but her character still has to be punished for being sexual.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by MGM)
(Photo by Lions Gate Films)
(Photo by Dan Ollman)
 (Photo by Kirsten Johnson/Big Mouth Productions)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); GOVERNORS (77%); SENTENCING (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (77%); ETHICS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); WRITERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: JAMES L JONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



128 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/Lawrence Township, N.J.; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1781 words

HEADLINE: Heading Into the Future by Reclaiming the Past

BYLINE: By JERRY CHESLOW

 BODY:
THE bricks that fringe the sidewalk on the three-block-long Main Street in Lawrenceville, N.J. -- part of Route 206 -- tell the story of how residents of Lawrence Township are helping to reclaim their 19th-century clapboard downtown, one greeting at a time. 
 For $50 to $250, their anniversaries, birthdays and political messages are being engraved on red pavers that create a broad apron onto which the district's eight restaurants pull their umbrella tables during warm weather. For example, one anonymous donor had ''Viva Che'' etched onto one line of a small brick, and a short distance away, on a three-line eight-by-eight-inch surface, Mimi and Scooter created a permanent greeting for their grandson Drew Harold Patrone.
''Ten years ago, there were a lot of boarded up buildings, and the people decided to do something about it,'' said Ann Garwig, executive director of a civic improvement organization called Lawrenceville Main Street, which was founded to clean up and promote the downtown. Its $90,000 annual budget, financed by the municipality and by donations, has helped to recruit new businesses to fill the empty storefronts and to organize events like street fairs and free concerts in the summer. 
 From its business district to its schools, open space, affordable housing and bike trails, the 22-square-mile Lawrence Township, which includes Lawrenceville, combines private initiatives with public policy for the good of its citizenry.
 Founded in 1697, it is one of the oldest municipalities in New Jersey. Yet about a third of the Mercer County township is still open space, largely because its farmers were willing to sell the development rights to their land to the state's Farmland Preservation Program. 
 Today, 15 active farms grow apples, peaches, vegetables and organic beef and chicken. The town is in the third year of a development of a $7 million, 20-mile bike trail, financed by the township's two largest corporations: the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and the educational testing company ETS, which have campuses at the northern end of town and provide nearly 4,000 jobs.
 Although Lawrence abuts wealthy Princeton and has many houses that sell in the millions of dollars, Mayor Pamela H. Mount, who owns the 200-acre Terhune Orchards, proclaims that Lawrence is one of the few townships in central New Jersey that has exceeded its state mandated quota for affordable housing. ''We have 200 more units than we have to, and it makes our community a more interesting place,'' she said.
 Making friends in Lawrence is also easy, according to Jacqueline Giulliano, who moved from a three-bedroom house in Dunellen, N.J., to a five-bedroom colonial in July with her husband, Joe, and their two children, ages 3 and 5. 
 ''We wanted more space, a better school system and closeness to Princeton,'' Mrs. Giulliano said. Her husband works for GE Healthcare, which is based in Princeton. Mrs. Giulliano says that the local Moms' Club helped her to network and develop her home-based gift business, which prepared 250 Thanksgiving baskets for Bristol-Myers Squibb. 
 ''There's a nice cultural and income mix,'' Mrs. Giulliano said. ''And, with two community pools, great parks and the McCarter Theater nearby, it offers a lot.''

What You'll Find
 Housing options are generally governed by proximity to neighboring towns. Homes at the southern end have a Trenton postal code and are smaller and less expensive than those at the northern end, along the Princeton line. 
 ''The closer you get to Princeton, the more expensive,'' said Buz Donnelly, a broker associate at Re/Max Premiere Properties. ''And those homes within the Princeton ZIP code command more.''
 Single-family homes range from small one-bedroom bungalows to newer five-bedroom colonials. In general, newer homes tend to have small lots of one-eighth to one-quarter acre, often with less than 20 feet between houses. This reflects the township's successful open space program, which has placed more than one quarter of the buildable land off the market. 
 Colonials that are 20 to 50 years old tend to have a third of an acre to a half. There are dozens of historic homes on varying lot sizes, many in the historic district of Lawrenceville's Main Street, and more than 2,500 condominiums in a dozen complexes.

What You'll Pay
 Housing on the market ranges from a one-bedroom condo in the 30-year-old Meadow Woods complex, off Route 206 near the Trenton line, listed for $129,900, up to $2.65 million for a four-bedroom home on nearly four acres with a swimming pool and tennis court. 
 The largest of 12 condo complexes is the 820-unit Lawrence Square Village off Lawrence Square Boulevard on the east side of town near the West Windsor line. In that complex, 11 units are listed at prices ranging from $214,900 for a two-bedroom, two-bath apartment, to $273,888 for a two-story, three-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath town house.
 The least expensive single-family units are duplexes, small ranches and bungalows in the Slackwood or Colonial Lake neighborhoods in the southern part of town, near the Trenton line, which can go for as little as $200,000. Newer colonials in newer developments scattered throughout the township sell for varying prices, up to about $950,000 for a five-bedroom, 4,000-square-foot home with a three-car garage along Cold Soil Road, which has a Princeton ZIP code, 08540.

The Schools
 Lawrence Township has an abundance of schools. Its 4,200-student public school system consists of three elementary schools for prekindergarten to Grade 3, Lawrence Intermediate School for Grades 4 to 6, Lawrence Middle School and Lawrence High School, which offers 33 advanced placement and honors classes in the sciences, history, German, Spanish, government, music and English literature. The school system also runs four adult education English courses for its many Eastern European immigrants and an after-school tutoring program at Eggerts Crossing Village. 
 On the 2004 SAT scholastic reasoning tests, Lawrence High School students scored 543 in mathematics and 520 in verbal, compared with state averages of 516 and 500 respectively. 
 The township's most famous educational institution is the Lawrenceville School, a college preparatory high school on a 700-acre campus that fronts on Main Street. Its alumni include presidents of foreign countries, governors, Saudi princes, Nobel laureates, Pulitzer-Prize winning journalists and captains of industry.
 Founded in 1810 and long considered a feeder for nearby Princeton University, it now has 780 boarding and day students from 34 states and 29 countries. Annual tuition is $34,570 for boarding students and $28,180 for day students. 
 Also in Lawrence are the Princeton Junior School for prekindergarten to Grade 5 and the Chapin School for prekindergarten to Grade 8. The two parochial schools are St. Ann's, an elementary school, and Notre Dame High School.
 Rider University, founded in 1865, has a 280-acre campus off Lawrenceville Road on the southwestern edge of the township.

What to Do
 The most interesting area for strolling through Lawrence is the two-mile-long Main Street Historic District, which is on the National and State Registers of Historic Places. In all, 56 buildings, many going back to the early 1700's, are designated as ''key'' structures. 
 It includes the 19th-century commercial strip and an area of the Lawrenceville School known as ''the Circle,'' with a half-dozen 19th-century dormitories and landscaping designed by Frederick Law Olmsted, a designer of Central Park in New York. The Circle has also been designated a National Historic Landmark, the highest national historic designation.
 The township has four major parks. The most widely used is the 107-acre Central Park off Eggerts Crossing Road. It has four baseball diamonds, four soccer fields, one football field, five basketball courts and three tennis courts.

The History
 Founded in 1697 as the town of Maidenhead -- named for a London suburb that was eventually incorporated into that city -- Lawrence was the scene of a crucial Revolutionary War engagement on Jan. 2, 1777. General Cornwallis was marching his British troops from New Brunswick to Trenton to crush Gen. George Washington's army. The outmanned Washington ordered Col. Edward Hand to keep the British from entering Trenton before nightfall. 
 In a clash that began at the Shabakunk Creek, just south of the current campus of the Notre Dame High School along Lawrence Road, Cornwallis was stalled for the night just outside Trenton. Washington sneaked his beleaguered troops out of the city and defeated Cornwallis's rear guard in the Battle of Princeton, which became known as the turning point of the Revolution. 
 On the closest Saturday to Jan. 2 -- this year, Dec. 31, 2005 -- township officials wearing Colonial garb lead a march from the municipal building on Lawrence Road to the site of Colonel Hand's attack, where a re-enactment is held.
 In 1816, the Rev. Isaac V. Brown, founder of the Lawrenceville School, petitioned the New Jersey Legislature to change the town name because of the association of the name ''Maidenhead'' with virginity. The township was renamed for Capt. James Lawrence, a naval hero in the War of 1812, whose final order, ''Don't give up the ship,'' became the motto of the Navy. Lawrence died on the deck of his frigate, the Chesapeake, as it was captured by H.M.S. Shannon in 1813. 

The Commute
 Dannielle E. Pearson, a sales associate with Prudential Fox & Roach Realtors, says that many of the people buying homes in Lawrence Township are transferring business executives who have taken jobs in Manhattan. The New Jersey Transit train ride from nearby Hamilton or Princeton Junction to Pennsylvania Station is 69 minutes or 63 minutes, respectively. 

What We Like
 Lawrence combines preservation with convenience. Along with its 19th century downtown and farms, it also provides abundant shopping. Options include two regional farm markets; the Lawrence Shopping Center on Princeton Avenue, which is anchored by an Acme supermarket; the Mercer Mall; and the 1.1 million-square-foot Quakerbridge Mall on Route 1.

What We'd Change
 Traffic through Lawrence during rush hours is congested, especially along Business Route 1, a section of the highway that was bypassed a generation ago by a beltway to Trenton. Local officials say they have petitioned the New Jersey Department of Transportation to convert the highway into a boulevard by replacing the concrete barriers in the center with a grassy median. Their objective is to calm traffic and to encourage the development of local businesses, much like what happened on nearby Main Street.


GRAPHIC: Photos: HISTORIC DOWNTOWN -- Improvements to Lawrenceville's Main Street, financed by the town and private donations, helped to recruit businesses to fill empty storefronts. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
On the Market: PROVINCE LINE ROAD -- This house, at No. 4547, has five bedrooms and four full- and two half-baths, and is listed at $2,495,000. (609) 921-1050.
9 WINTHROP ROAD -- This house has four bedrooms and two and a half baths, and is listed at $535,000. (609) 924-1600.
 LAWRENCEVILLE ROAD -- This one-bedroom, one-bath condo, at No. 423, is listed at $134,900. (609) 737-7474. Map of New Jersey highlighting Lawrence Township.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (86%); MAYORS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); FESTIVALS (71%); ACADEMIC TESTING (70%); BEEF (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); BUDGETS (66%); CHILDREN (65%); APPLE ORCHARDS (63%); MEATS (63%); ORGANIC FOODS (62%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (60%) Geographic Profiles

COMPANY: BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (63%)

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (63%)

PERSON: Jerry Cheslow

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Lawrence Township (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



129 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Tax Breaks Drive a Philadelphia Boom

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

DATELINE: Philadelphia 

 BODY:
AFTER years of losing population, the downtown region, known as Center City, is booming, with developments going up and old buildings being transformed into lofts and condominiums. 
 The construction, fueled by tax breaks, has succeeded in halting the city's 40-year population decline. Center City, which has the nation's third largest downtown residential population, behind New York and Chicago, is experiencing its fifth straight year of increased housing starts, both new and rehabilitated units. Center City's population grew to 88,000 by the end of 2005 from 78,000 in 2000. Even more striking, the number of households rose by 24 percent, according to figures compiled by the Center City District, a business-improvement group.
The changes are drawing people like Sheryl Bar, who had never anticipated the extent to which a change in venue would mean a change in perspective. Since moving into a condo in the city, ''we feel like newlyweds again,'' Mrs. Bar said, referring to herself and her husband, Dr. Allen Bar, with whom she raised three daughters in a house they built in Villanova, a Philadelphia suburb. 
 As a surgeon at Pennsylvania Hospital, Dr. Bar can walk to work from their condo. Now they go out four or five nights a week, as opposed to four times a month when they lived in the suburbs. 
 ''Instead of commuting to work, he's home within minutes, puts his feet up for a while, and then we go have dinner and see a movie,'' Mrs. Bar said. ''I loved bringing up my children in Villanova, but this is so rejuvenating. It really has been transformational for us.''
 The same could be said for Philadelphia. 
 That downtown Philadelphia has been experiencing a residential boom is no big surprise. Cities across the country have benefited from the real estate development frenzy of the last few years. But the changes have been accelerated here by the use of tax breaks for residential developments. Philadelphia is one of the only places to offer a citywide 10-year tax-abatement program. 
 The program, which started with residential conversions in 1997 but expanded to new construction in 2000, holds the tax assessment at a property's predevelopment level for 10 years. The Bars, for instance, pay just $1,200 a year in property taxes rather than the $12,000 they would pay without the abatement on their $1.1 million 2,600-square-foot, three-bedroom, three-bath condo designed by SHoP Architects of New York City.
 ''In the beginning, the abatement program was 100 percent responsible for getting things going,'' said Paul Levy, president of Center City District, which was formed in 1990 to address the decline of downtown Philadelphia. ''Now there is a discussion going on about whether or not it's still needed.'' 
 Development is continuing on an ever-grander scale. The skyline is being reshaped by Waterfront Square, the largest luxury condo project in the city's history, with two towers under construction along the Delaware River, and three more in the planning phase. 
 Toll Brothers, a company known for building so-called McMansions in the suburbs, is redeveloping a historic United States Navy site on the Schuylkill River, a property the company has owned since 1988. The 23-acre project, called Naval Square, will have 750 homes, both condos and town houses.
 According to a report released late last year by the Center City District, from the time that tax abatements were passed, more than 8,000 converted and new units will have been added to Center City, and half of all new residents benefiting from tax abatements came from outside the city. 
 Those who lived in the city before the newest influx see a big change in the character of the downtown area. 
 In May 2005, Anthony Forte and his dog, Philly, moved from his town house in a quiet, residential neighborhood to a loft condo in the heart of Center City. Known as the Jewelers' Building, one of Philadelphia's more recognizable buildings, the 106-year-old six-story structure still has much of its original Colonial Revival detailing intact even though it sat empty for years. 
 ''The city has been a great place for me to live, but it's become much more vibrant,'' Mr. Forte said. ''Philly always had its residential areas that are quaint, which some people love. But now downtown is extremely diverse, with lots of residential mixed with restaurants, galleries and high-end retail. My only regret is that I got a new car, because I don't drive anymore.'' Like 37 percent of downtown residents, Mr. Forte walks to work, the highest percentage of any major American city, according to census data compiled by the Center City District. 
 Mr. Levy, the Center City District's president, said, ''We didn't reinvent downtown living, but in the last five years, it's been explosive.'' By decade's end, the city expects to add another 7,000 units.
 Now, the tax-abatement programs have become somewhat controversial. While a small percentage of wealthier residents are living in high-end properties and are paying very little in taxes, a majority of the longtime residents who suffered through the bad years are likely to see their taxes go up as property values rise.
 Mildred Ruffino has lived on the city's south side for 32 years, with much of her family close by. The tax-abatement program, which has spurred housing almost exclusively downtown, is now spilling over to other neighborhoods. Mrs. Ruffino's street will soon have eight town houses where a bakery once operated. 
 ''I realize the economic situation and what the city is trying to do to bring back residents, but it's exorbitant,'' said Mrs. Ruffino, who works in the accounting department of an architectural firm. ''An empty bakery isn't doing anybody any good. But 10 years is a long time to be tax free.'' 
 Yet there is no question that tax abatements have had an impact on the city's real estate and development industry, said Stephen P. Mullin, a senior vice president and principal of the Econsult Corporation, an economic research firm in Philadelphia. 
 ''You couldn't make money here in Philly building something new five years ago,'' Mr. Mullin said. ''Obviously, low interest rates helped as well. But even with that, you needed the extra bump. Now, instead of property values declining, which they were doing for years, they're increasing, and everyone benefits from that.''
 Even though it is difficult to tease out the precise impact of tax abatements on the city's economic fortunes, they have certainly succeeded as a marketing tool. ''Ads in the real estate section prominently feature the tax abatement,'' said John Kromer, senior consultant with the Fels Institute of Government at the University of Pennsylvania. ''Property taxes in the suburbs have been increasing. So this is one area where the city can make an apples-to-apples comparison with the suburbs and win.''
 David Grasso, president of Grasso Holdings, is convinced that even in the current climate, phasing out the program entirely would have a devastating impact on development, if for no other reason than people have come to expect it. He points to the Packard Building condominiums on South 15th Street. Because it was first intended as rentals the building was initially prevented from taking advantage of the tax-abatement program. ''We tried to sell units in early 2005 without the tax abatement, and sales were very difficult,'' Mr. Grasso said. ''So we appealed to the city and won, and sales picked up considerably.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: BUSTLING SIDEWALKS -- The population in downtown Philadelphia, known as Center City, grew to 88,000 by the end of 2005 from 78,000 in 2000. (Photo by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 AT HOME -- Dr. Allen Bar and his wife, Sheryl, left, relocated to downtown Philadelphia from the suburbs, and Mrs. Bar says the move ''really has been transformational.'' Anthony Forte and his dog, Philly, below left, recently moved to a loft condo in the heart of Center City. Two new developments in the city include the Naval Square, top far left, and the Waterfront Square condo towers along the Delaware River. (Photographs by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (73%); SUBURBS (71%); CHILDREN (69%) Housing; Housing; Taxation; Population Shifts; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Property Taxes; Condominiums

PERSON: Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Philadelphia (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



130 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: BENEFITS

 BODY:

Wiesenthal Center Dinner
 WEDNESDAY -- The Simon Wiesenthal Center, a Jewish human rights organization dedicated to preserving the memory of the Holocaust, will give a fund-raising dinner in the grand ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria. The event will feature a special tribute to Mr. Wiesenthal, the Nazi hunter, who died in September and for whom the rights organization, which is based in Los Angeles and has offices and educational programs in New York, is named. Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of News Corporation, will also be honored. The evening begins with cocktails at 6, followed by dinner at 7. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 888-7003. 

Animal Rescue
 
 THURSDAY -- The North Shore Animal League America, which supports animal shelters nationwide, including one it operates in Port Washington, N.Y., will benefit from a party at a gallery space at 116 Prince Street (Greene Street). Photographs by Mick Rock and Henry Diltz will be on sale during the evening, which includes refreshments and vegetarian hors d'oeuvres served throughout. The event begins at 6. Tickets, $50, from (516) 812-7209.

For Women's Health
 JAN. 19 -- Glenn Close will be the mistress of ceremonies and James D. Wolfensohn, the former World Bank president, will be honored at a black-tie dinner at Cipriani 42nd Street to raise money for the International Women's Health Coalition and its work to promote and protect the rights and health of girls and women, particularly in countries emerging from socialism. Cocktails begin at 6:30. Tickets, $1,000, from (800) 807-1787.

Foundation for the Arts
 JAN. 19 -- A benefit for the New York Foundation for the Arts will feature performances by William Cepeda, a jazz musician; Bob Holman, a poet; Connie Beckley, a performance artist; and the Nicholas Leichter Dance company. The organization supports artists and arts organizations. A cocktail reception begins at 6 at a private home on the Upper West Side, with the performances to begin at 7:30 at the New York Society for Ethical Culture, 33 Central Park West (64th Street). Tickets, $250, from (212) 366-6900, ext. 207. 

Antiques Show Preview
 JAN. 19 -- The annual preview of the Winter Antiques Show at the Seventh Regiment Armory will raise money for the social service programs in the South Bronx of the East Side House Settlement. Cocktails and hors d'oeuvres will be served throughout the evening, which begins at 5 for those with $1,000 tickets, at 6 for those with $500 tickets and at 7 for those with $300 tickets. Information and tickets from (718) 292-7392.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); WOMEN (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); DANCE (77%); ANIMAL WELFARE (74%); MEAT FREE DIETS (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); DANCE COMPANIES (68%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); JAZZ & BLUES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: SIMON WIESENTHAL CENTER (84%); INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S HEALTH COALITION (54%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



131 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Building Empire Zones

 BODY:
Before the first bill or even the first official speech in this year's legislative session in Albany, the three men who run New York's state government called for the cameras. Once the lights were on full, and the microphone canted in their general direction, Gov. George Pataki; the Senate majority leader, Joseph Bruno; and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, announced the creation of three new Empire Zones around the state. One would be in Nassau County, one in Livingston County and one in Chinatown. 
 If they beamed like rich patrons handing out post-holiday goodies, that is because that was just what they were doing: doling out one of the best tax breaks that New York State has to offer.
Which raises this question: Will these new zones create jobs, or will they do little more than reward political cronies, as too many of them have done in the past? 
 Empire Zones were created 20 years ago to stimulate long-term economic growth in distressed communities. It was and is an excellent idea, if it works the way it was intended to work. But two years ago, in a random sampling of Empire Zones across the state, Comptroller Alan Hevesi and his auditors reported a series of failures in the oversight and operation of these zones. 
 One notable example was a real estate company in Syracuse that created one job at an annual salary of $26,000 but claimed a tax credit of more than $250,000. Another was a Rochester company that added one $10,000-a-year position and got a tax credit of $137,000. As Mr. Hevesi noted: ''Giving companies tax breaks is giving away real money.'' 
 Although the comptroller has said he intends to continue checking on how the 75 zones operate, it is not clear, really, whether the Empire Zone program has improved since his audit. Only one important thing has really changed: the way that these zones are handed out across the state.
 Previously the governor's appointees had controlled the awards. Now the governor and the two legislative leaders decide among themselves who gets these valuable tax breaks, which is why each had a reason to smile for the cameras last week.
 Mr. Silver was especially relieved that his own district finally earned its bonus. Chinatown and the Lower East Side of Manhattan lost over 50,000 jobs after Sept. 11, 2001, but the speaker noted sourly that it took four years for his district to get the help it deserved.
 Maybe it is better for three politicians to control who gets the tax breaks, instead of just one. But the bottom line should always be not who has the clout to distribute these rewards but which blighted areas can best use them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); AUDITS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



132 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
RICHARDSON, WILLIAM WHITTLE

 BODY:
RICHARDSON -- William Whittle. Aged 89, only son of William and Gertrude Richardson died January 4, 2006 at the Medical Center of the Indian River Estates in Vero Beach, FL after a long illness. He was born December 15, 1916 and grew up in Maplewood, NJ where he graduated from Columbia High School. In 1938 he graduated with honors in Economics from Princeton University. After serving in the Army Air Force during WW II he received his MBA from New York University. In 1942, he married Conradina Crommelin of Spokane, WA. He is survived by his wife of 63 years and three children. William (Barbara), David (Pam) and Katherine (JS Wynant). He is also survived by seven grandchildren, John, Bryan, Patrick, Lindsay, Joseph, Peter and Margot, and a step grandson, Jonathan Allen. His 35 year career at Mobil Oil included a four year assignment in Tokyo, Japan as head of Mobil Far East. Prior to retiring he was project manager for the relocation of Mobil Corporate Headquarters from New York to Fairfax, VA. Donations can be made to Princeton University Class of 1938 Gift Records PO Box 5357 Princeton, NJ 08543. A memorial service will be held at a later date. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELOCATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



133 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
RICHARDSON, WILLIAM WHITTLE

 BODY:
RICHARDSON -- William Whittle. Aged 89, only son of William and Gertrude Richardson died January 4, 2006 at the Medical Center of the Indian River Estates in Vero Beach, FL after a long illness. He was born December 15, 1916 and grew up in Maplewood, NJ where he graduated from Columbia High School. In 1938 he graduated with honors in Economics from Princeton University. After serving in the Army Air Force during WW II he received his MBA from New York University. In 1942, he married Conradina Crommelin of Spokane, WA. He is survived by his wife of 63 years and three children. William (Barbara), David (Pam) and Katherine (JS Wynant). He is also survived by seven grandchildren, John, Bryan, Patrick, Lindsay, Joseph, Peter and Margot, and a step grandson, Jonathan Allen. His 35 year career at Mobil Oil included a four year assignment in Tokyo, Japan as head of Mobil Far East. Prior to retiring he was project manager for the relocation of Mobil Corporate Headquarters from New York to Fairfax, VA. Donations can be made to Princeton University Class of 1938 Gift Records PO Box 5357 Princeton, NJ 08543. A memorial service will be held at a later date. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELOCATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2006



134 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
RICHARDSON, WILLIAM WHITTLE

 BODY:
RICHARDSON -- William Whittle. Aged 89, only son of William and Gertrude Richardson died January 4, 2006 at the Medical Center of the Indian River Estates in Vero Beach, FL after a long illness. He was born December 15, 1916 and grew up in Maplewood, NJ where he graduated from Columbia High School. In 1938 he graduated with honors in Economics from Princeton University. After serving in the Army Air Force during WW II he received his MBA from New York University. In 1942, he married Conradina Crommelin of Spokane, WA. He is survived by his wife of 63 years and three children. William (Barbara), David (Pam) and Katherine (JS Wynant). He is also survived by seven grandchildren, John, Bryan, Patrick, Lindsay, Joseph, Peter and Margot, and a step grandson, Jonathan Allen. His 35 year career at Mobil Oil included a four year assignment in Tokyo, Japan as head of Mobil Far East. Prior to retiring he was project manager for the relocation of Mobil Corporate Headquarters from New York to Fairfax, VA. Donations can be made to Princeton University Class of 1938 Gift Records PO Box 5357 Princeton, NJ 08543. A memorial service will be held at a later date. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELOCATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2006



135 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
RICHARDSON, WILLIAM WHITTLE

 BODY:
RICHARDSON -- William Whittle. Aged 89, only son of William and Gertrude Richardson died January 4, 2006 at the Medical Center of the Indian River Estates in Vero Beach, FL after a long illness. He was born December 15, 1916 and grew up in Maplewood, NJ where he graduated from Columbia High School. In 1938 he graduated with honors in Economics from Princeton University. After serving in the Army Air Force during WW II he received his MBA from New York University. In 1942, he married Conradina Crommelin of Spokane, WA. He is survived by his wife of 63 years and three children. William (Barbara), David (Pam) and Katherine (JS Wynant). He is also survived by seven grandchildren, John, Bryan, Patrick, Lindsay, Joseph, Peter and Margot, and a step grandson, Jonathan Allen. His 35 year career at Mobil Oil included a four year assignment in Tokyo, Japan as head of Mobil Far East. Prior to retiring he was project manager for the relocation of Mobil Corporate Headquarters from New York to Fairfax, VA. Donations can be made to Princeton University Class of 1938 Gift Records PO Box 5357 Princeton, NJ 08543. A memorial service will be held at a later date. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELOCATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2006



136 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
RICHARDSON, WILLIAM WHITTLE

 BODY:
RICHARDSON -- William Whittle. Aged 89, only son of William and Gertrude Richardson died January 4, 2006 at the Medical Center of the Indian River Estates in Vero Beach, FL after a long illness. He was born December 15, 1916 and grew up in Maplewood, NJ where he graduated from Columbia High School. In 1938 he graduated with honors in Economics from Princeton University. After serving in the Army Air Force during WW II he received his MBA from New York University. In 1942, he married Conradina Crommelin of Spokane, WA. He is survived by his wife of 63 years and three children. William (Barbara), David (Pam) and Katherine (JS Wynant). He is also survived by seven grandchildren, John, Bryan, Patrick, Lindsay, Joseph, Peter and Margot, and a step grandson, Jonathan Allen. His 35 year career at Mobil Oil included a four year assignment in Tokyo, Japan as head of Mobil Far East. Prior to retiring he was project manager for the relocation of Mobil Corporate Headquarters from New York to Fairfax, VA. Donations can be made to Princeton University Class of 1938 Gift Records PO Box 5357 Princeton, NJ 08543. A memorial service will be held at a later date. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELOCATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2006



137 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
RICHARDSON, WILLIAM WHITTLE

 BODY:
RICHARDSON -- William Whittle. Aged 89, only son of William and Gertrude Richardson died January 4, 2006 at the Medical Center of the Indian River Estates in Vero Beach, FL after a long illness. He was born December 15, 1916 and grew up in Maplewood, NJ where he graduated from Columbia High School. In 1938 he graduated with honors in Economics from Princeton University. After serving in the Army Air Force during WW II he received his MBA from New York University. In 1942, he married Conradina Crommelin of Spokane, WA. He is survived by his wife of 63 years and three children. William (Barbara), David (Pam) and Katherine (JS Wynant). He is also survived by seven grandchildren, John, Bryan, Patrick, Lindsay, Joseph, Peter and Margot, and a step grandson, Jonathan Allen. His 35 year career at Mobil Oil included a four year assignment in Tokyo, Japan as head of Mobil Far East. Prior to retiring he was project manager for the relocation of Mobil Corporate Headquarters from New York to Fairfax, VA. Donations can be made to Princeton University Class of 1938 Gift Records PO Box 5357 Princeton, NJ 08543. A memorial service will be held at a later date. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELOCATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2006



138 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
RICHARDSON, WILLIAM WHITTLE

 BODY:
RICHARDSON -- William Whittle. Aged 89, only son of William and Gertrude Richardson died January 4, 2006 at the Medical Center of the Indian River Estates in Vero Beach, FL after a long illness. He was born December 15, 1916 and grew up in Maplewood, NJ where he graduated from Columbia High School. In 1938 he graduated with honors in Economics from Princeton University. After serving in the Army Air Force during WW II he received his MBA from New York University. In 1942, he married Conradina Crommelin of Spokane, WA. He is survived by his wife of 63 years and three children. William (Barbara), David (Pam) and Katherine (JS Wynant). He is also survived by seven grandchildren, John, Bryan, Patrick, Lindsay, Joseph, Peter and Margot, and a step grandson, Jonathan Allen. His 35 year career at Mobil Oil included a four year assignment in Tokyo, Japan as head of Mobil Far East. Prior to retiring he was project manager for the relocation of Mobil Corporate Headquarters from New York to Fairfax, VA. Donations can be made to Princeton University Class of 1938 Gift Records PO Box 5357 Princeton, NJ 08543. A memorial service will be held at a later date. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELOCATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2006



139 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
RICHARDSON, WILLIAM WHITTLE

 BODY:
RICHARDSON -- William Whittle. Aged 89, only son of William and Gertrude Richardson died January 4, 2006 at the Medical Center of the Indian River Estates in Vero Beach, FL after a long illness. He was born December 15, 1916 and grew up in Maplewood, NJ where he graduated from Columbia High School. In 1938 he graduated with honors in Economics from Princeton University. After serving in the Army Air Force during WW II he received his MBA from New York University. In 1942, he married Conradina Crommelin of Spokane, WA. He is survived by his wife of 63 years and three children. William (Barbara), David (Pam) and Katherine (JS Wynant). He is also survived by seven grandchildren, John, Bryan, Patrick, Lindsay, Joseph, Peter and Margot, and a step grandson, Jonathan Allen. His 35 year career at Mobil Oil included a four year assignment in Tokyo, Japan as head of Mobil Far East. Prior to retiring he was project manager for the relocation of Mobil Corporate Headquarters from New York to Fairfax, VA. Donations can be made to Princeton University Class of 1938 Gift Records PO Box 5357 Princeton, NJ 08543. A memorial service will be held at a later date. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELOCATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2006



140 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
RICHARDSON, WILLIAM WHITTLE

 BODY:
RICHARDSON -- William Whittle. Aged 89, only son of William and Gertrude Richardson died January 4, 2006 at the Medical Center of the Indian River Estates in Vero Beach, FL after a long illness. He was born December 15, 1916 and grew up in Maplewood, NJ where he graduated from Columbia High School. In 1938 he graduated with honors in Economics from Princeton University. After serving in the Army Air Force during WW II he received his MBA from New York University. In 1942, he married Conradina Crommelin of Spokane, WA. He is survived by his wife of 63 years and three children. William (Barbara), David (Pam) and Katherine (JS Wynant). He is also survived by seven grandchildren, John, Bryan, Patrick, Lindsay, Joseph, Peter and Margot, and a step grandson, Jonathan Allen. His 35 year career at Mobil Oil included a four year assignment in Tokyo, Japan as head of Mobil Far East. Prior to retiring he was project manager for the relocation of Mobil Corporate Headquarters from New York to Fairfax, VA. Donations can be made to Princeton University Class of 1938 Gift Records PO Box 5357 Princeton, NJ 08543. A memorial service will be held at a later date. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELOCATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2006



141 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
RICHARDSON, WILLIAM WHITTLE

 BODY:
RICHARDSON -- William Whittle. Aged 89, only son of William and Gertrude Richardson died January 4, 2006 at the Medical Center of the Indian River Estates in Vero Beach, FL after a long illness. He was born December 15, 1916 and grew up in Maplewood, NJ where he graduated from Columbia High School. In 1938 he graduated with honors in Economics from Princeton University. After serving in the Army Air Force during WW II he received his MBA from New York University. In 1942, he married Conradina Crommelin of Spokane, WA. He is survived by his wife of 63 years and three children. William (Barbara), David (Pam) and Katherine (JS Wynant). He is also survived by seven grandchildren, John, Bryan, Patrick, Lindsay, Joseph, Peter and Margot, and a step grandson, Jonathan Allen. His 35 year career at Mobil Oil included a four year assignment in Tokyo, Japan as head of Mobil Far East. Prior to retiring he was project manager for the relocation of Mobil Corporate Headquarters from New York to Fairfax, VA. Donations can be made to Princeton University Class of 1938 Gift Records PO Box 5357 Princeton, NJ 08543. A memorial service will be held at a later date. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELOCATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2006



142 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Markets Welcome New Year With Big Gains

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market began the New Year with a weeklong rally that left the major stock indexes at their highest levels since 2001. 
 Investors snapped up shares of a broad range of companies, particularly those that stand to benefit from growth of the Internet and of mobile computing devices. Google, the search-engine giant, rose 12.3 percent for the week. SanDisk, which dominates the market for flash memory, rose nearly 18 percent.
But there were big gains in other sectors. Engelhard, which makes pollution-control devices, rose more than 27 percent; BASF has made a $4.9 billion unsolicited bid for the company. Among the Dow Jones industrials, General Motors, which rose more than 7 percent for the week, had the best performance. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 241.81 points, or 2.3 percent, to close at 10,959.31. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 37.16 points, or 2.9 percent, to close at 1,285.45. The Nasdaq composite index rose 100.30 points, or 4.5 percent, to close at 2,305.62.
 In the bond market, the yield of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.38 percent from 4.39 percent the week before. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.GoogleNNM: GOOGThe search engine firm said it had signed a deal with Motorola in which the cellphone maker will provide one-click access to Google's Web-search services on handsets capable of transmitting data.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $465.66WEEK'S CHANGE: +12.25%EST. '06 P/E: 79.11Dow JonesNYSE: DJThe owner of The Wall Street Journal said its chief operating officer, Richard F. Zannino, would succeed Peter R. Kann as chief executive, bypassing Mr. Kann's wife, Karen Elliott House, publisher of The Journal.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $39.47WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.21%EST. '06 P/E: 41.03GameStopNYSE: GMEThe video game retailer reported strong November and December sales, helped by the October acquisition of Electronics Boutique, and increased its fourth-quarter outlook. Its shares nearly reached their 52-week high.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $38.52WEEK'S CHANGE: +21.06%EST. '06 P/E: 22.25UnisysNYSE: UISThe technology services company said it had received a contract from the federal Department of Homeland Security for up to three years and $750 million.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $6.12WEEK'S CHANGE: +4.97%EST. '06 P/E: --Great Atlantic & Pacific TeaNYSE: GAPThe grocer, which operates A.& P., Waldbaum's and Food Emporium stores, said its third-quarter sales were $1.58 billion, down 5.4 percent from $1.67 billion in the same period a year ago.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $29.31WEEK'S CHANGE: -7.77%EST. '06 P/E: --Pilgrim's PrideNYSE: PPCThe poultry producer cut its first-quarter earnings outlook in half, partly blaming disappointing results at its Mexico unit and a backlash in some countries where a deadly strain of avian flu has been detected.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $26.75WEEK'S CHANGE: -19.33%EST. '06 P/E: 9.82Glamis GoldNYSE: GLGShares of the gold producer, and those of many of its peers, climbed as the price of gold surged to $540 an ounce on Friday, which was a new 52-week high.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $29.81WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.48%EST. '06 P/E: 148.31Wendy's InternationalNYSE: WENThe fast-food chain is restoring the 99-cent price to the Super Value Menu that it has offered since 1989. It also said it would begin testing some breakfast items on its menu this year.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $55.73WEEK'S CHANGE: +0.85%EST. '06 P/E: 26.03(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (79%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); SEARCH ENGINES (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (71%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



143 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 89 words

HEADLINE: The Tax-Cut Incentive

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Daniel Altman correctly said that the benefits of tax cuts could be overwhelmed by increased government expenditure, and that lenders might not continually finance a borrower who spends more than he collects.
Tax cuts increase reward for work and real economic growth, provided that their benefits are not squandered by current government expenditure and huge unfunded future promises. 
 In any event, we must work our way to wealth; it is unlikely that we can tax our way to prosperity.

Tom Willoughby
Columbus, Ohio, Jan. 1 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (85%) Taxation

PERSON: Tom Willoughby; Daniel Altman

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



144 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: In Bonds, It's Hard to Tell the Short Term From the Long 

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA MUNGER KAHN

 BODY:
MANY fixed-income investors had a rough 2005. With interest rates rising, bond funds in general barely had positive returns for the year, and investors in money market and other short-term fixed-income funds did better than those in some longer-term funds. 
 Although rates rose over all, they didn't rise evenly: short-term rates climbed more than long-term ones did, resulting in what economists call a flattening yield curve. That developed as the Federal Reserve pushed the overnight bank lending rate all the way up to 4.25 percent by year-end from 2.25 percent last January. The rate on the 10-year Treasury note, meanwhile, barely budged: it stood at 4.39 percent at year-end, up from 4.22 percent in January.
For investors, this means that short-term securities offer just about as much yield as long-term ones, which are riskier. In fact, the two-year Treasury yield rose to 4.41 percent -- slightly higher than the 10-year yield, representing an inversion of the yield curve. As a result, some advisers are telling investors to stick to short-term securities in their fixed-income portfolios. 
 ''Why take the interest rate risk of a 10-year bond if you can get 4.75 percent in cash?'', said Michael W. Roberge, chief fixed-income officer at Massachusetts Financial Services in Boston. He expects the Federal Reserve to push the federal funds rate to 4.75 percent this year, while the yield on the 10-year bond will rise modestly, to around 5 percent.
 Many investment managers agree with this analysis.
 ''It behooves investors to be more defensive now,'' said Kimon Daifotis, chief investment officer for fixed income at Charles Schwab Investment Management in San Francisco. ''That means you want shorter-term, higher-quality investments.'' 
 In an environment of rising rates, ''cash is king'' -- and that means money market funds, said Peter Crane, managing editor of iMoneyNet Inc., publisher of the Money Fund Report and provider of money market fund data. ''Short-term bonds are better than long-term bonds, and cash is best of all,'' he said.
 Mr. Crane argues that money market funds are better than certificates of deposit because the funds, which have maturities averaging just 37 days, are constantly buying new securities that carry higher yields, which are then reflected in the funds' yields. By contrast, C.D.'s lock investors into a set rate. 
 Currently, six-month C.D.'s yield 3.8 percent, on average, versus 3.6 percent for all taxable money market funds. Some top-performing money market funds -- like those offered by Massachusetts Financial Services, Fidelity and Vanguard -- are yielding about 4 percent. Mr. Crane says he thinks that rates on money market funds may easily hit 4.5 percent by midyear. 
 Investors who do not have an immediate need for cash and are willing to venture further on the maturity and risk scale may want to consider ultrashort bond funds, which have an average maturity of 2.5 years and currently yield 3.4 percent. Top-performing funds like Schwab YieldPlus, Metropolitan West Ultra Short Bond and Fidelity Ultra-Short Bond yield more than 4 percent. 
 These funds are allowed to hold a broader, slightly riskier set of investments than money market funds, which are subject to strict Securities and Exchange Commission rules about their investments so that their net asset values do not fluctuate from $1 a share.
 ''The risk you take on with an ultrashort bond fund is pretty modest,'' said Tad Rivelle, chief investment officer at Metropolitan West Asset Management in Los Angeles. 
 One investor who has put money into an ultrashort bond fund is David M. Spillane, 78, a retired business owner in West Chester, Pa. In July 2004, Mr. Spillane bought $200,000 of Schwab YieldPlus, which returned more than 3 percent in 2005. The Select class shares that he bought, which require a $50,000 minimum investment, currently yield 4.55 percent. If long-term rates move up again, he said, he will consider moving back into longer-term Treasuries. In the meantime, he has been satisfied with the ultrashort bond fund. ''The money is there until interest rates go up,'' he said. ''It's a great place to park wealth.'' 
 Other options include short-term bonds and bond funds. Raymond D. Mignone, a fee-only financial adviser in Little Neck, N.Y., has been buying exchange-traded bond funds, which trade the way stocks do. Mr. Mignone likes the iShares Lehman 1-3 Year Treasury Bond fund because it has low costs -- its expense ratio is less than 0.15 percent -- and it yields 4.4 percent. ''Right now, it makes more sense to have most of your fixed-income money short term,'' he said. ''I don't think it makes sense to go longer than two or three years. That's where you're getting the best bang for the buck.'' 
 The important consideration in buying short-term funds is their expense, which can take a big chunk out of returns, said Scott Berry, a fund analyst at Morningstar. 
 INVESTORS should also consider that even experts have a difficult time predicting the direction of interest rates. If the economy looks as if it is tipping into recession, for example, long-term rates could fall instead of rising slightly.
 The uncertainty leads some analysts to advise against making wholesale moves in fixed-income portfolios. ''You don't want to sell all your long-term bonds,'' Mr. Crane said. ''You don't want to time the bond or money markets any more than the stock market.''
 But some analysts say that there is little downside to being wrong on the direction of interest rates if you buy short-term securities, because they are less sensitive to such shifts.
 ''It's nothing much to worry about,'' said Roger Ibbotson, professor of finance at the Yale School of Management and founder of Ibbotson Associates, which has done research on the long-term returns of stocks, bonds and cash. He also says investors should skew their fixed-income portfolios to shorter-maturity securities now. 
 When it comes to short-term investments, he said, ''you're not talking about a loss of capital.''

 EXPENSE RATIO: .95

Schwab YieldPlus Investor
2005 RETURN: 3.30
S.E.C. YIELD: 4.39
EXPENSE RATIO: .59

Metropolitan West Ultra-Short Bond M
2005 RETURN: 3.03
S.E.C. YIELD: 4.13
EXPENSE RATIO: .50

FFTW U.S. Short-Term Portfolio
2005 RETURN: 2.98
S.E.C. YIELD: 3.60
EXPENSE RATIO: .35

Fidelity Ultra-Short Bond
2005 RETURN: 2.96
S.E.C. YIELD: 4.22
EXPENSE RATIO: .53

MONEY MARKET FUNDS* selected, ranked by 7-day yield

PayPal Money Market Fund
7-DAY YIELD: 4.25%
EXPENSE RATIO: .11

Scudder MM Series Premium / AARP
7-DAY YIELD: 4.15
EXPENSE RATIO: .21

MFS Money Market Fund
7-DAY YIELD: 4.03
EXPENSE RATIO: .35

Transamerica Premier Cash Reserve
7-DAY YIELD: 4.03
EXPENSE RATIO: .25

Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund
7-DAY YIELD: 4.02
EXPENSE RATIO: .30

*excluding restricted funds

(Sources by Morningstar Inc., Money Fund Vision)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Ultra-Short Bond Funds vs. Money Market Funds''ULTRA-SHORT BOND FUNDS selected, ranked by 2005 returnPimco Floating Income Fund A2005 RETURN: 4.98S.E.C. YIELD: 3.22%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); BONDS (92%); YIELD CURVE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Money Market Funds

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL SERVICES CO (54%); CHARLES SCHWAB INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: Virginia Munger Kahn

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



145 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2460 words

HEADLINE: Being and Blackness

BYLINE: By ORLANDO PATTERSON. 
Orlando Patterson is the John Cowles professor of sociology at Harvard University. His most recent books are ''The Ordeal of Integration'' and ''Rituals of Blood: Consequences of Slavery in Two American Centuries.''

 BODY:
WE WHO ARE DARK
 The Philosophical Foundations of
 Black Solidarity.
 By Tommie Shelby.
 320 pp. The Belknap Press of 
 Harvard University Press. $27.95.

CREATING BLACK AMERICANS
 African-American History and Its Meanings,
 1619 to the Present.
 By Nell Irvin Painter.
 Illustrated. 458 pp. Oxford University Press. $35.
It isn't easy being a philosopher committed to making critical reflections on African- American identity. Those about whom you write have little time for abstractions and even less patience with criticism. The philosophers for whom you write often refuse to take seriously a subject so outlandishly removed from all that has preoccupied them for the past two and a half millenniums. And the experience upon which you reflect is largely bereft of earlier models to build upon. Only a few intrepid souls have plowed this virgin intellectual field. Add to them now Tommie Shelby, a sparkling new talent with all the boldness and intellectual self-assurance necessary for such an effort. 
 Identity politics took its modern form during the second half of the last century. It emerged as an emancipatory mode of political action and thinking based on the shared experience of injustice by particular groups -- notably blacks, women, gays, Latinos and American Indians. It is a movement born in a double negation: the rejection of rejection, through the proud, self-conscious union of those who have been defined as belonging to an excluded group. 
 It is precisely this focus on a particular group, on the significance of difference from the dominant other, that disturbs many, on the left and right, and in the center. The traditional left is uncomfortable with conceptions of solidarity not based on class. The right has little patience with the radical reordering of what it views as natural, God-given relations and identities. Meanwhile, the individualism of the mainstream center, and its insistence that rights and redress apply equally to all citizens, is clearly at odds with notions of collective solidarity. 
 Although black Americans have led the way in practical matters, insightful theoretical reflections on identity politics are still wanting. Shelby's ''We Who Are Dark'' is respectful of such politics, but severely critical as well. His book contests the movement's central claims at a level of sociophilosophical sophistication that one rarely encounters. Shelby, who is the John L. Loeb associate professor of the social sciences at Harvard University, sets himself two tasks: to clear the ground with a critique of whathas gone before; and to plant a new idea of identity politics that he calls ''pragmatic nationalism.''
 He limbers up with a dismissal of the notion of an inherent or essential black identity, the idea that one shares some deep-seated common bond or kinship with all black people by virtue of being black. He considers this as dangerous as biological conceptions of race. But he goes much further, rejecting all forms of positive black identities. 
 The first of these he approaches through a sympathetic evaluation of Martin R. Delany, the 19th-century militant abolitionist often regarded as the father of classic black nationalism. Delany argued for the repatriation of blacks to Africa or a separate black state, but later shifted to a more pragmatic, almost conservative, conception of black struggle. He rejected separatism in favor of a movement based on ''pragmatic nationalism,'' advocating moral uplift, as well as an alliance of the races in the pursuit of a just and equal America. Shelby, rather too generously, claims to derive his own version of black solidarity from these later views of Delany.
 Shelby directs his most forceful criticisms at the two other main forms of black identity politics: black power and cultural particularism. He maintains that the black power call to collective action based on exclusive black organizations is now inappropriate because of the economic and regional heterogeneity of the black population. It is also, he says, politically counterproductive since it risks alienating badly needed progressive allies among the nonblack population.
 Shelby's powerful critique of black cultural particularism incorporates and supersedes all previous discussions of the subject. He identifies eight basic tenets of this tradition: blacks have a distinctive culture; they should collectively and consciously reclaim that culture; they should take pride in conserving and reproducing it; unlike white culture, it provides a valuable foundation for their individual and communal identities; it is an emancipatory tool in resisting white hegemony, providing an alternate set of ideals to live by; it should be accorded public recognition by the state; blacks, as the main producers of this culture, should benefit from it in financial and other ways; and as ''owners'' of this culture, blacks should be the foremost authorities and interpreters of it. 
 We hear these arguments all the time, sometimes subtly, often crudely. Most non-blacks are either contemptuous of them or quietly dumbfounded. Many simply turn a blindly patronizing eye. Shelby takes the arguments seriously, and meticulously demolishes them all. He does not deny that there are distinctive forms of Afro-American culture. Far from it. His concern, rather, is with the ways black spokesmen think about this heritage and the chauvinistic claims commonly made about it, beginning with the questionable view that being black means one is, or ought to be, culturally black. 
 The laudable goal of promoting the finer aspects of black cultural productions, Shelby argues, in no way implies that every black person should root his identity in them or is under any obligation to cultivate them. And the fact that blacks have had to make a special effort to undo the centuries of denigration of black cultural creations in no way implies that a common cultural identity should undergird political solidarity. Further, just because blacks created some particular cultural form is not necessarily a good reason to value it, since there is a good deal in black culture, as in all cultures, that is without value. And he nicely extends previous criticisms that the tiresome proprietary claims made of black culture risk marginalizing both black culture and intellectuals. 
 It is impossible in the short space of a book review to do justice to the complexity and thoroughness of Shelby's analysis. He knows how to ask all the right questions: Is collective identity necessary? Would a shared identity help? Is blackness simply any and everything that black people do? And does not such a view reduce blackness to ''a matter of ontology, sinking us right back into the quicksand of essentialism?'' His answers, while drawing on other scholars, and not always on the mark, are rarely without originality.
 Nonetheless, Shelby does favor a special form of black political solidarity. To this end he borrows the sociological distinction between ''thick'' and ''thin'' identities. A thick identity positively promotes black cultural autonomy and the ''so-called politics of difference'' that Shelby firmly rejects. Thin identity views blackness as no more than ''a vague social marker imposed from outside.'' Yet it remains important. In this view, according to Shelby, ''what holds blacks together as a unified people with shared political interests is the fact of their racial subordination and their collective resolve to triumph over it.''
 What is needed, Shelby says, is a pragmatic nationalism that encourages ''individual blacks to maintain solidarity with one another regardless of the racial composition of the political organizations in which each participates.'' Solidarity of this sort -- identification, special concern, loyalty and trust -- has to be black rather than part of a wider program of color-blind liberal or radical reform, because blacks suffered a unique history of injustice under slavery and Jim Crow, and continue to do so through patterns of institutional discrimination and more subtle forms of personal racism. But it cannot be too black, since this risks entrapment in the manifold errors of thick identity. And it has to be thin because blacks have got to come to terms with the fact that most of the socioeconomic challenges they face in modern America have little to do with their blackness. Yet it cannot be too thin, or it becomes mere shallow rhetoric.
 This is a delicate balance, exquisitely calibrated by Shelby to the moral and intellectual needs of the black elite and upper-middle classes in that it explicates, and philosophically underpins, precisely those unstated sentiments that motivate continued engagement by the more fortunate among us. So thanks, brother.
 But what about the masses, the barely coping, the legions in the ghetto trenches and the growing numbers of culturally articulate but economically marginal young men and women? Can they be expected to take this seriously? Being down and out in contemporary, winner-take-all America imposes a brutal burden on one's sense of worth and invites compensation through precisely those thick, positive identities that Shelby so effectively demolishes. Shelby is inclined to respond to such observations with the notion that ethical principles can never be derived from, or undermined by, sociological observations or anticipated difficulties.
 Maybe so. But this risks getting him into all sorts of trouble because a good part of his ''pragmatic'' arguments rely heavily on the social sciences. Indeed, at times he seems simply to be translating sociological categories into philosophical norms. If thin black political identity -- solidarity motivated solely by the goal of racial justice -- has no chance of success except among the elite, who already practice it anyway, we are justified in questioning its relevance. He, in fact, ends up right where W. E. B. DuBois broke off -- with a 21st-century philosophy for the talented tenth searching for a way to connect with the masses. He rejects DuBois's solution -- race pride -- but offers no alternative, though he is quite aware of the problem. Is thin identity too thin, he asks near the end of the book. For the masses, yes! Now what?
 Shelby's use of social science is problematic in another way. While paying lip service to human agency, he avoids all talk of personal responsibility, rejecting on deterministic socio-economic grounds any consideration of the ways in which the personal and partly cultural choices of the black poor may account for their plight. This is regrettable. I expect a social philosopher like Shelby to guide me through the perplexing ethical problems of how we persuade those mired in difficulties that are partly self-inflicted not simply to assume responsibility (as most of them in fact do), but to make the right choices in critical life decisions. At the same time, Shelby should fully acknowledge the important role of the state in providing the black poor with a context for personal transformation. But if he fails in the positive side of his project, he does so in a constructive manner that prepares the ground for a second try. Given his youth, energy and enormous intelligence, that second try will be worth waiting for.
 Anyone who doubts the value of Shelby's criticisms of black cultural identity politics should read Nell Irvin Painter's textbook on African-American history, ''Creating Black Americans.'' With the odd exception of the field of economics, writing textbooks is not an especially prestigious undertaking in the historical and social sciences. So the decision of a distinguished scholar like Painter to publish one is to be welcomed, especially by college students burdened with books churned out by committees and academic hacks. 
 Painter would seem to be an ideal choice for such a task. Her many important works are models of clarity, especially her beautifully wrought biography of Sojourner Truth. Alas, the same cannot be said of this plodding and distressingly chauvinistic volume. Beginning with a chapter on Africa, it travels the familiar route through the slave trade, slavery, the 
 Civil War, Reconstruction, the Jim Crow era and so on up to the present. Part of Painter's problem is that she tries to cover the whole complex panorama of African-American history in 359 pages, about a third of them taken up with illustrations. There is simply no space to evaluate the relative importance of the events she touches on, or engage the reader with the fascinating moral, cultural, political and intellectual issues raised in the study of them. 
 The book's main claim to novelty is its reproductions. Painter tells us that she will ''share the story'' of black history with these artists because, being free from the demands of scholarship, they give us ''the emotional dimension of this history.''
 I was indeed often moved by these black artists' attempts to imagine the hidden depths of suffering as well as the resistance, creative energy and unbroken dignity of their ancestors. But I began to grow uneasy when told that they would ''present the unknown greatness of the African-American past.'' And my unease turned to dismay with Painter's comment that she has excluded virtually all nonblack artists from her selection. Since, according to Painter, there were ''pitifully few black artists working before the 1920's,'' this meant replacing all works done by whites from the 16th century to the 20th with renditions by modern African-Americans. Because of this questionable decision, readers are denied, for example, any of the many fine portraits of Sojourner Truth by contemporaries.
 Painter is neither an art historian nor a keen observer of art, so there is really no illuminating dialogue between artist and historian here, of the kind found, say, in Simon Schama's studies of 17th-century Dutch life and culture. Instead, the art works and commentary too often get in the way of the narrative. Thus 7 of the 21 pages devoted to the slave trade are taken up with images and attendant commentary that add little to the subject. Still, ''Creating Black Americans'' may prove useful to history teachers in fine arts departments and, possibly, to Afro-American studies departments wary of traditional biases in the treatment of the black past.
 The assumption throughout this book is that black artists have valuable insights to offer on events and personalities in black history hundreds of years before their time, and that these insights trump the vision of any white artists of the period. The fact that an important scholar could embrace such a view attests, more than anything else, to the dangers of black cultural identity and the urgency of Shelby's overdue critique.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); POLITICS (88%); PHILOSOPHY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); LITERATURE (65%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (72%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

PERSON: Orlando Patterson; Tommie Shelby; Nell Irvin Painter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



146 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Gambling Chronicle

BYLINE: By Neil Genzlinger. 
Neil Genzlinger is a staff editor at The Times.

 BODY:
As the United States completes its transition to an all-gambling economy, perhaps you're wondering what your place is likely to be in it. Depends. If the sentence ''Another good scenario for a stack is a flush that's made on the river'' means something to you, you have a shot at membership in the new socioeconomic elite. If not, you can plan on washing that elite's cars or watering its lawns.
In the all-gambling economy, poker will be the dominant industry (sucker games like slots and lotteries are just diversions for the masses), and, as is clear from a recent batch of books on the subject, poker speaks a language all its own. So much slang is slung across card tables that it's common for poker books to have glossaries, and several of those discussed here do. Muck: to discard a hand. Spur: to mark cards with your fingernails. Village People: four queens. 
 It's shamefully snobbish, all this poker jargon. So by way of retaliation, it seems only fair to invent a few phrases of poker-book-reviewing jargon for the task at hand. Read 'em and weep. 
 JONNY MAGIC AND THE CARD SHARK KIDS: How a Gang of Geeks Beat the Odds and Stormed Las Vegas. By David Kushner. (Random House, $24.95.) 
 Shoot the Puppy: to be overeager like a puppy, to the point that it detracts from your message by making people want to shoot you.
 Kushner, whose 2003 book, ''Masters of Doom,'' explored the phenomenon spawned by the video game Doom, here follows a New Jersey misfit named Jon Finkel as he evolves from overweight teenager into poker star. The tale serves both as an introduction for those late to the poker-craze party and as a generic profile of many of the younger players crashing the professional circuit.
 The author shows how Finkel and others now in their 20's came to gambling through the fantasy card game Magic, a complex concoction that appeared in 1993 and soon acquired a cult following. Finkel emerged as one of its top players. Magic turned out to be good training for poker -- the strategy, the mathematics, the tracking of cards, the reading of other players. And, of course, the ability to endure mind-numbing hours at a card table. ''There's only so long that someone can sit in one place and concentrate without going batty and losing feeling in his limbs,'' Kushner writes. ''But for a generation of gamers who'd grown up on Magic and Nintendo, numbness was second nature.''
 Kushner's account is genial, though he shoots the puppy by repeatedly reminding the reader what a geek Finkel was before he became a poker hotshot. And his notion that these card freaks are ''mental athletes'' grates; our true mental athletes are the ones who win Nobel Prizes in the sciences. 
 BUSTING VEGA$: The MIT Whiz Kid Who Brought the Casinos to Their Knees. By Ben Mezrich. (Morrow/HarperCollins, $24.95.) 
 No Monte, Just Carlo: Something that appears glamorous but isn't; inspired by Carlo Rizzi, the hapless brother-in-law in ''The Godfather,'' who marries into the Family but is beaten to a pulp by Sonny.
 The young gambler profiled in ''Busting Vega$'' isn't nearly as likable as Jon Finkel, at least not as conjured in Mezrich's overwrought, breathless prose. He is Semyon Dukach, one of a group of brainiacs from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who made some serious money at casino blackjack tables and have been bragging about it ever since. Mezrich wrote about M.I.T.'s card counters in an earlier book, ''Bringing Down the House,'' but here Dukach and a few companions use more esoteric techniques that rely on exploiting sloppy dealers and cutting a stack of cards at an exact spot.
 Mezrich seems desperate to convince readers (especially any who also happen to be movie producers) that the casino-busting life is exciting and sexy, but in reality it's no Monte, just Carlo. Dukach and his friends spend half their time running from or being manhandled by the casinos' goons. Sometimes they don't even escape with their winnings. Wouldn't it be more efficient, and safer, just to rob a bank? 
 ANNIE DUKE: How I Raised, Folded, Bluffed, Flirted, Cursed, and Won Millions at the World Series of Poker. By Annie Duke with David Diamond. (Hudson Street, $24.95.)
 Grody Flush: a gratuitous reference to vomiting.
 Duke, one of poker's best female players, doesn't have cinematic stories of being threatened by casino bouncers, but she keeps things interesting by mixing autobiography, play-by-play and tips.
 She also tosses in mini-portraits of Johnny Chan (''scary good''), Phil Hellmuth (''the quintessential white-guy dancer'') and other top players, including Howard Lederer, her brother, though these are disappointingly gracious; where is all the cussin' and gunplay that made those old westerns so lively? She does deal the reader an occasional grody flush -- panic attacks struck her at pivotal moments -- but mostly the book has a sanitized feel. Perhaps its best feature is Duke's user-friendly explanation of a game she particularly enjoys, Omaha Hi-Lo Split, which some fans of its omnipresent cousin, Texas Hold'em, can't seem to decipher. 
 HOW TO CHEAT YOUR FRIENDS AT POKER: The Wisdom of Dickie Richard. By Penn Jillette and Mickey D. Lynn. (St. Martin's, $19.95.)
 Bald Weasel: a person or thing that is transparently manipulative.
 In this bald weasel of a book, Jillette, the speaking half of the magic duo Penn and Teller, tries to slither onto the poker bandwagon by feigning a belligerent vulgarity while advising people to rip off their friends and acquaintances. He claims to be passing along the tips of a pseudonymous mentor, Dickie Richard; chief among them is that players who want to earn a steady income should forget the casinos (''Why should you split your money with Wayne Newton?'') and instead troll for ''home games,'' where the betting can be just as serious but the cheating is easier.
 The book is never funny and often offensive, and its tips are generally so vague or dumb as not to be tips at all. The glossary, though, is amusingly extensive.
 ALL IN: The (Almost) Entirely True Story of the World Series of Poker. By Jonathan Grotenstein and Storms Reback. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $24.95.)
 Pair of Lees: Anything that simultaneously invokes gorging (as in Sara Lee pastries) and spiritual emptiness (as in Peggy Lee's ''Is That All There Is?'').
 ''All In,'' the best and most dispassionate of these books, is the story of the World Series of Poker, the event at the heart of the poker boom. The brainchild of Benny Binion, owner of a Las Vegas casino called the Horseshoe, it began on a regular basis in 1970 and has been growing ever since.
 There is something for everyone in this entertaining account by Grotenstein and Reback, both players themselves: history, descriptions of pivotal hands, family feuding, criminal investigations. As with Mezrich's book, there is a definite ''no Monte, just Carlo'' aspect to the story, but this one is more nuanced. It's not the threat of broken kneecaps that leaves you wondering if poker addiction is worth the trouble; it's the nagging sense that despite the money and occasional excitement, none of the people in this card-playing universe have accomplished anything of lasting value. 
 That said, it's hard not to love some of the anecdotes here, especially one about the 1994 tournament, in which, to honor the 25th World Series, the winner was to receive (in addition to $1 million) his or her weight in silver bars. For some players, strategy that year consisted of wolfing down food: ''While Bonetti was acclimating to the rhythms of his new table, Russ ordered a steak dinner with extra everything.''It's a bit of color that helps give ''All In'' that rarest of poker-book hands: a pair of Lees.


GRAPHIC: Photo: LAS VEGAS: An Unconventional History. By Michelle Ferrari with Stephen Ives. (Bulfinch, $40.) Las Vegas isn't all blackjack tables and slot machines: there's also kitsch like the Liberace Museum, celebrated along with other Sin City institutions and ephemera in this companion volume to the PBS ''American Experience'' documentary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LITERATURE (90%); POKER (89%); CARD GAMES (78%); COMPUTER GAMES (75%); WRITERS (74%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (57%)

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (57%)

PERSON: Neil Genzlinger; David Kushner; Ben Mezrich; Annie Duke; David Diamond; Penn Jillette; Mickey D Lynn; Jonathan Grotenstein; Storms Reback; Michelle Ferrari; Stephen Ives

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%) NEVADA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



147 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: VENTURES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Finding Commercial Value In Some New Zip Codes

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
OTHER big real estate investors may jostle over trophy buildings in torrid markets like New York or Los Angeles, but David Lichtenstein sets his sights on places like Pleasant Prairie, Wis.; Birch Run, Mich.; and Shawnee, Okla.
 They're not exactly flashy ZIP codes, he knows, but Mr. Lichtenstein believes that there is money to be made in them just the same. His company, the Lightstone Group, based in Lakewood, N.J., has evolved into one of the country's largest private owners of real estate over the last 18 years, mainly by snapping up shopping centers, office buildings and apartments in the far reaches of America's suburbs and exurbs.
''The people there need to shop, too,'' Mr. Lichtenstein said. Besides, he added, explaining his investment strategy: ''Do you want to go to a fishing hole where there's a lot of other people fishing, or do you want to be where you're the only guy with a hook in the water? We would concentrate on any place where the big boys aren't.'' 
 Real estate analysts are predicting, though, that more of the big institutional investors, like hedge funds and pension funds, which have already reaped sizable profits buying and selling skyscrapers and malls, will be casting their lines in Mr. Lichtenstein's direction this year. Fierce competition in the top-tier cities continues to drive up prices, the analysts noted, which means that initial yields, or the capitalization rates, are being pushed down significantly. 
 ''There's more interest in the secondary or tertiary markets, in part, because the cap rates are a lot higher; it's definitely a spillover,'' said Robert White Jr., president of Real Capital Analytics, a research and consulting firm in New York. ''Even the German investors, who are known for buying Class A properties in major cities, in the past year have bought in smaller cities.'' 
 Mr. Lichtenstein, whose company owns more than 170 properties in places that many people have never heard of, maintains that there can be value in the smaller cities and towns. ''Pricing is often 50 percent less,'' he said. ''A good office building in New York has a 4 percent cap rate, while that same building in other areas has an 8 percent cap.'' (A cap rate of 6 percent or more right now is generally considered good.) 
 There is also the potential to create more value in the less-crowded markets. Mr. Lichtenstein says his Lightstone Group doubled the operating income at the Brazos Mall in Lake Jackson, Tex., about 60 miles south of Houston, since buying it as part of a $48.2 million acquisition in late 2004. By making renovations, bringing in popular stores, a movie theater and a food court, Lightstone brought the occupancy rate up to nearly 96 percent from around 70 percent, he said. ''There are no other malls within 50 miles,'' Mr. Lichtenstein said. ''We listened to what the people there wanted.'' 
 Many smaller investors who have been priced out of the top 20 cities have also profited by buying property elsewhere. For the less intrepid, there are REIT's, or real estate investment trusts, which invest in portfolios of commercial property, and TIC's, or tenants-in-common programs, a nascent product that offers fractional ownership of properties. 
 One large REIT, ProLogis of Aurora, Colo., has most of its warehouses and distribution centers in cities like Austin, Tex.; Charlotte, N.C.; Orlando, Fla.; and Chattanooga, Tenn. (Mr. Lichtenstein recently started his own REIT, the Lightstone Value Plus Real Estate Investment Trust; it will not be listed on a stock exchange.) 
 Of course, some smaller markets have more success than others. Lightstone, for example, gave up on trying to turn around an outlet mall in Niagara Falls, N.Y., which lost much of its Canadian customer base after the terrorist attacks because of tightened border security. And even regions that are deemed up-and-coming by real estate analysts may not prove profitable for all property types. ''You have to look at the so-called four food groups: retail, office, industrial and multifamily,'' said John J. Kriz, a managing director for real estate finance at Moody's Investors Service.
 Indeed, that is what real estate brokerage firms like Colliers International helps its clients do. The firm predicted that commercial real estate as a whole would continue to flourish in 2006 and that the office and industrial sectors, in particular, would do well as businesses expand. But Ross Moore, the national director of research, warned, ''The second-tier market and tertiary market will not see a whole lot of demand for office space; most demand will be in the Tier 1 market.'' 
 ''Industrial is different,'' he added. ''That should do well across the board, including the Midwest. With retail, you want to go where people are moving or where there is good tourism. Your best opportunities are really in the Sun Belt.''
 Many real estate analysts favor the same or similar secondary markets. Mr. Moore's list includes Austin; Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; Phoenix; Las Vegas; Orlando; and Seattle. Each, he says, has healthy economic and employment growth, and many, like Austin and Phoenix, have expanding populations. (His bottom three are Pittsburgh, Cleveland and Memphis, because they have ''dreadful economic numbers,'' he said.)
 Raymond G. Torto, principal and chief strategist at Torto Wheaton Research, a division of CB Richard Ellis of Los Angeles, also sees opportunities over the next two years in Orlando and Fort Lauderdale, and he adds the Florida cities of West Palm Beach, Jacksonville and Tampa to his favorites list. All have good economic and employment growth, he explained, and the potential for healthy price appreciation. 
 In addition, he likes Austin, Phoenix, Las Vegas, Fort Worth and Riverside, Calif. ''Vegas has been a leader over the last two years, at 7 percent job growth, though it is slowing down a little bit,'' he said. 
 Mr. Torto says he believes that many smaller cities will also benefit from a shift in warehouse pipelines. As the ports and railyards of major cities become more crowded with imports, particularly from China, he said, demand for industrial space in the secondary markets will increase. That augurs well for places like Orlando; Cape Canaveral, Fla.; Norfolk, Va.; Allentown, Pa.; and Riverside, he said. 
 ''On a price-per-square foot basis, you might find a similar rental that is 60 percent cheaper in Riverside than Los Angeles,'' he said.
 And as warehouses are developed or expanded, demand for other properties, both commercial and residential, could also follow. ''The expression goes, 'A rising tide raises all boats,' '' Mr. Torto said. ''Everything benefits in that area.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Outlets San Marcos in San Marcos, Tex., between Austin and San Antonio, has a canal with gondolas. The property, left and below, is owned by the Lightstone Group, based in Lakewood, N.J., one of the country's largest private owners of real estate, with many holdings in secondary cities. (Photographs by Frank Curry for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); RETAILERS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Suburbs; Urban Areas ; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Vivian Marino

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



148 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead Means Looking Abroad

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM

 BODY:
IT will go down in the history books as the year when mutual fund investors fully embraced the world beyond their borders.
 American investors poured more new money into foreign stock funds in 2005 -- an estimated $149 billion -- than in the previous four years combined. In fact, they put more new money to work in foreign funds than they did in domestic stock portfolios, which usually garner the bulk of investor dollars.
But what do you expect, given how the foreign funds more than doubled the returns of their domestic counterparts last year? 
 The average general domestic stock fund returned 6.8 percent in 2005, according to Morningstar, the fund tracker. Among all stock funds that invest in United States equities, the average was slightly better: 7.7 percent. But that was still down from the 12.7 percent return of 2004. 
 To be sure, domestic stock funds outperformed most major stock indexes. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, for example, rose only 4.9 percent, when dividends are included. And the Dow Jones industrials returned just 1.7 percent. (Without dividends, the Dow actually fell by 0.6 percent.) 
 Still, the domestic funds' gains were small when compared with the 17.8 percent return for the average international stock portfolio.
 In recent years, domestic equity funds have had a knack for staging big rallies in fourth quarters. But they did not pull a rabbit out of the hat last year, as they advanced a solid -- but unspectacular -- 2.2 percent in the final three months. Instead, it was foreign equity portfolios that sparkled in the fourth quarter, surging 5.2 percent.
 In particular, stock funds focused on Japan partied like it was 1999 -- or rather like it was 1989, when the Nikkei 225 index peaked before starting a 14-year decline.
 The Japanese funds soared 18.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005 as Japan's economy appeared to be emerging from its deflationary doldrums. For the year, these funds returned a heady 37.9 percent, on average, raising hope that the country's stock market might be back. 
 Still, the Japanese portfolios were not the year's best performers. That distinction went to Latin American stock funds, with a staggering return of 55 percent, on average. 
 Funds that focus on the emerging markets in general also flourished, as many Latin American and Asian markets benefited from soaring prices of commodities. The average diversified emerging-markets equity fund soared 6.9 percent in the fourth quarter and 32.1 percent for the year. 
 ''We expected and positioned for the international markets to do well,'' said Jeffrey L. Knight, chief investment officer of the global asset allocation team at Putnam Investments. ''But I was surprised at how well the foreign markets did.''
 The performance of foreign equities was even more remarkable, considering the unexpected rally in the dollar last year. When the dollar strengthens -- it gained 13 percent against the euro and 15 percent against the yen in 2005 -- it hurts American investors abroad, as each share of foreign stock they own is worth less in United States currency. In other words, foreign stock funds would have done even better had the dollar weakened, as was predicted at the start of last year. 
 ''It's clear that there's a performance-chasing element to the fund flows,'' said Russel Kinnel, Morningstar's director of mutual fund research.
 Still, many market watchers say they think that investors are likely to increase their foreign stock allocations. ''Perhaps with globalization, the investor is becoming more sophisticated and sees a greater need for international holdings in their asset allocation,'' said Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab. 
 Many analysts are again looking for the foreign markets to outshine United States stocks this year.
 According to a recent survey of money managers by the Russell Investment Group, 54 percent are bullish on foreign equities, while only 17 percent are bearish.
 David Darst, chief investment strategist for Morgan Stanley's individual investor group, says he believes that moderate investors may want to put around 40 percent of their equity allocation into foreign holdings. 
 Aaron S. Gurwitz, senior strategist for Lehman Brothers' private investment management group, says some investors may even want to consider holding half their stock portfolios in foreign shares.
 ''Investors have to remember that half of all stocks in the world are non-U.S. shares,'' he said. He cautions investors not to overweight emerging-markets stocks, however, even though they were the market leaders in 2005. 
 John R. Chisholm, co-chief investment officer at Acadian Asset Management in Boston, agreed. He said that because of their recent performance -- the average emerging-markets fund has climbed more than 19 percent, annualized, over the past five years -- these highly volatile shares are not as cheap as they once were. ''We expect returns to be more muted in the coming year,'' he said.
 Donald L. Cassidy, senior research analyst at Lipper, says the recent popularity of gold funds is yet more evidence that investors ''are betting against the U.S. market as being the place to be.'' Last year, the average precious-metals fund delivered a return of 31.8 percent.
 Actually, domestic equity funds did not fare all that badly, given factors like the yearlong climb in the federal funds rate -- the benchmark short-term interest rate -- to 4.25 percent from 2.25 percent. A nonfactor, it turns out, was Hurricane Katrina, the most costly storm in terms of property damage in the country's history.
 ''If you would have said that we'd have one of the worst natural disasters in the country's history, that oil would have peaked at around $70 a barrel, that the federal funds rate would have climbed to 4.25 percent with indications that we're headed for 4.5 percent, virtually everyone would have predicted a negative year,'' said Jonathan Golub, a domestic equity strategist at J. P. Morgan Funds.
 Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at S.& P., agreed that the market was resilient. He noted that from June 30, 2004, when the Federal Reserve began raising interest rates, through the end of 2005, the Nasdaq composite jumped 7.7 percent, the S.& P. 500 climbed 12.4 percent and the S.& P. 400 index of midcap stocks soared 23.6 percent.
 ONE reason for that strength was that that the United States economy held up remarkably well. In the third quarter, for instance, the economy expanded at an annual rate of 4.1 percent despite record energy prices. 
 ''There's no reason yet to abort the rosy view that the U.S. economy will continue to grow at around trend or above,'' said Alan Brown, head of investment at Schroders. 
 But Mr. Brown says the domestic economy faces long-term challenges. Among them is a potential slowdown in consumer spending, as households will eventually need to rebuild their savings, he said. And potentially higher interest rates this year may further cool the housing boom.
 Of course, investors bet that long-term rates would rise considerably in 2005 -- and were wrong. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note ended the year at 4.39 percent, down from 4.62 percent at the end of March and up only slightly from 4.22 percent at the beginning of the year. The stability in such rates helped long-term government bond funds return 4.1 percent for the year.
 ''Looking ahead, it seems to be a pretty tricky year to figure out,'' said Mr. Knight at Putnam. Among the uncertainties is the market's reaction to the Federal Reserve transition at the end of this month, when Ben S. Bernanke is expected to replace Alan Greenspan as chairman.
 Considering all the unknowns, ''the best approach might be to make sure you have all the bases covered,'' he said. ''Be well diversified. And if we happen to get another blowout performance somewhere, great.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tim Robinson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (85%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); DEFLATION (71%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Foreign Investments

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



149 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Replacing Tea Leaves With Data

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
HOW will this year be different from last? Wall Street may pay even closer attention to economic numbers, said Russ Koesterich, senior portfolio manager at Barclays Global Investors in San Francisco. 
 He envisions a return to the days when there was a bit of mystery about Federal Reserve interest rate decisions and traders needed the data to furnish clues about how the central bank might act. For the last year or so, rate increases have been relentless, he noted, and so have been the hints that they were on the way, thanks to the care that the Fed has put into statements accompanying the moves. ''In 2005 they told you what they were going to do,'' he said. ''Now the question is, Where do we go from here?''
A good question, and one that the Fed itself will ask. Officials there have signaled that they are close to reaching a neutral credit stance and will need clues from the economy about the need for further moves. Two reports on Friday may help: one will measure retail sales for December and the other will show December's producer prices, or the cost of goods when they leave factories. In a Bloomberg News poll, economists predicted a 0.2 increase in core producer prices, which factor out food and energy costs. (An increase of 0.4 percent increase is forecast when those volatile segments are included.) 
 If there is a deviation from the consensus, Mr. Koesterich said, ''the risk is on the up side.'' An increase of 0.4 percent or 0.5 percent in the core reading, he said, ''would call into question the notion that the Fed is almost done'' raising rates and could depress the stock market.
 The retail sales report is important, Mr. Koesterich said, because it will offer ''the first real definitive look at how the holiday shopping season went.'' The consensus is for a 1 percent increase, but that may be a bit ambitious, he said, given the flattening housing market and the lingering high cost of energy. ''I think this was a relatively muted season for consumers,'' he said. Yet that may help stocks, he said, by providing ''another piece of evidence that we're getting a deceleration of the economy and the Fed doesn't need to go much further.''

DATA WATCH -- Traders may also focus on the report Thursday of the nation's trade balance. Americans are estimated to have spent $66 billion more on foreign goods in November than foreigners spent on American products. That would be a smaller gap than the $68.9 billion deficit in October.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks monthly change in Core Producer Price Index for 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCER PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); EVIDENCE (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Two Thousand Six (Year)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS NA (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle; Russ Koesterich

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



150 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUND REPORT; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Digging for Gold? A Little Bit Can Go a Long Way

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
GOLD makes a few people rich and a lot of people giddy. King Tutankhamen went to his grave with a trove of it. Francisco Pizarro, the explorer, pillaged for it. John Maynard Keynes, the economist, railed against it. Neil Young wrote songs about it. Nobody, besides butchers, rhapsodizes about pork bellies.
 And with the price of bullion rising -- in December, it topped $500 an ounce for the first time in nearly 25 years -- mutual fund investors have been bitten by the gold bug, too. In the first 10 months of 2005, a net $2.3 billion flowed into precious-metals funds, which tend to be dominated by gold miners' stocks. That inflow was up 50 percent over the full-year figure for 2004. Just a few years ago, some investors were fleeing these funds; they had net outflows in 2000 and 2001.
The recent popularity of precious-metals funds has some analysts wondering whether investors are striving to diversify their portfolios or just flirting with a fad. ''A lot of investors overdo it trying to get rich with gold,'' said Karen A. Wallace, who tracks precious-metals funds for Morningstar in Chicago. ''Just a little bit of allocation to the sector goes a long way.'' 
 One of these funds may have a place in your portfolio, but only after you've found the right mix of stocks, bonds, cash and maybe real estate, said Joseph P. Brennan, who leads the portfolio-review department at the Vanguard Group in Malvern, Pa. ''It's for diversifying around the edges, and most people struggle to just get a well-balanced portfolio,'' he said.
 Even metals-fund managers, who point out that gold's price tends to move independently of stocks and bonds, urge caution. They typically recommend an allocation of no more than 5 percent. ''Remember, it's a small sector, so you don't want to get too excited,'' said Bill H. Martin, manager of the American Century Global Gold fund.
 And a few experts see any investment in precious metals as the province of speculators. ''There are so many better places for your money,'' said Jeremy J. Siegel, a finance professor at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. ''In the long run, stocks or bonds have thrashed gold as holdings.'' 
 According to Professor Siegel's calculations, a dollar invested in gold bullion in 1802 would now be worth $1.60, after inflation. In contrast, a dollar invested in stocks would have returned $630,000, after inflation, over the same period, and one in government bonds, $1,100. For investors seeking an inflation hedge, Professor Siegel suggests Treasury inflation-protected securities instead. 
 But someone must see value in glitter and gilt. Otherwise, gold's price wouldn't have nearly doubled since 2001. Other precious metals have also soared in value. Platinum recently reached a 25-year high, and silver and palladium prices have climbed lately, too. 
 Some analysts credit the booming economies of China and India. Newly affluent people there have fewer investment options than Westerners and thus have turned to gold and other precious metals, said Parvathy Krishnan, a Morningstar stock analyst. Others, like Kathleen M. Camilli, an economics consultant in New York, point to the recent rise in oil prices. ''We've seen tremendous wealth creation there, and some of that is going back into gold,'' she said. Still other analysts say a widespread rally in commodities prices has also propelled metals.
 Whatever the reasons, a rush of sorts has ensued. If mutual fund investors are bent on participating, they have several options. 
 They can, of course, skip funds entirely and buy a bar of bullion or a fistful of coins. But then they would have to store and insure their treasure, which entails costs that would erode their return. And ''unlike collectibles like antiques or art, most people can't get a lot of enjoyment out of displaying bullion or gold bars around the house,'' said Wayne R. Guay, an accounting professor at the Wharton School. 
 Alternatively, investors can take the conventional path and buy shares in a fund such as American Century Global Gold, Vanguard Precious Metals and Mining or Franklin Gold and Precious Metals. 
 Precious-metals funds may sound exotic -- as if they're giving shareholders a stake in a subterranean vault full of platinum, silver and gold. In fact, they are like other stock mutual funds in that they typically invest in companies. And these companies' business is dirty, difficult and, when metals prices are low, not very profitable, said Stephen M. Land, vice president and manager of the Franklin fund. 
 In Nevada, for example, gold mining involves huge open pits, 400-ton trucks and ''shovels big enough that you can stand in them,'' he said. In South Africa, it requires deep shafts bored thousands of feet into bedrock. ''You're dealing with 10,000 people in a hole in the earth,'' he added. With the gold price at $250 an ounce, these costly operations barely break even, if they even do. But at $500, they can earn a healthy return.
 If the recent numbers seem enticing, investors should understand that, as a rule, returns for precious-metal funds zigzag about twice as much as those for the average large-capitalization stock fund, said Andrew Clark, a senior research analyst at Lipper. ''This isn't a 401(k) investment,'' he warned. ''It's speculative, and you may have made nothing at the end of the year.''
 And unlike the large-cap stock category, the sector doesn't easily lend itself to indexing, which many experts consider the most efficient means of running a fund. There just aren't enough publicly traded mining companies to create a well-diversified index, said Mr. Martin of American Century. His fund began as an indexer but evolved because he and his co-managers found the strategy unworkable in such a small sector. ''It's not an index fund anymore, but it's as close as we can come,'' he said. 
 Because these money managers have a relatively small community of companies from which to choose, their funds tend to hold fewer stocks than the average stock fund, said Ms. Wallace of Morningstar. (They typically hold large gold producers like AngloGold Ashanti, Barrick Gold, Newmont Mining and Placer Dome; in December, Barrick Gold agreed to acquire Placer Dome for $10.4 billion, creating the world's largest gold miner.) In such funds, the ups and downs of a single company can do much to bolster -- or sap -- returns. That contributes to the funds' volatility, as does their focus on one industrial sector.
 Sector funds tend to have high expense ratios. ''Some of them are priced at what the market will bear,'' rather than at the cost of running the fund, she said. Vanguard's offering carried an expense ratio of 0.48, according to its most recent annual report, the lowest among precious-metals stock funds tracked by Morningstar. By comparison, the average expense ratio for all precious-metals funds was 1.68 percent. 
 Returns for precious-metals funds often jump and dive even more than gold prices, which are plenty volatile on their own. ''The shares tend to accentuate anything that's going on with the gold price because you've got operational leverage and technological advances working in your favor,'' Mr. Martin explained. Of course, leverage can work both ways, exaggerating slides as well as upswings.
 Investors have another option: exchange-traded funds that invest in gold bullion. One is StreetTracks Gold Trust, which was organized by the World Gold Council, a marketing group for miners, and opened in 2004. Another is iShares Comex Gold Trust, organized by Barclays Global Investors; that fund began in early 2005. 
 With the E.T.F.'s, you really do get a stake in gold in a vault. The custodian for StreetTracks, for example, holds 239 tons of bullion in London. The fund's Web site, www.streettracksgoldshares.com, includes pictures of pallets of gleaming bars. 
 Both funds carry an expense ratio of 0.40. With E.T.F.'s, investors must also pay brokerage fees to buy or sell their shares. Be aware, too, that the I.R.S. treats gold as a collectible, so shareholders in the E.T.F.'s will typically see their gains taxed at the 28 percent rate as opposed to the 15 percent rate that applies to many other investments. 
 As gold prices have risen over the last five years, investors may have forgotten that they can fall far and fast, too. ''From the 1981 peak, the price of bullion fell about $300 in the next 12 months,'' said Mr. Clark of Lipper. And when they do, he added, they tend to drag down precious-metals funds with them.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shopping for gold jewelry in Old Delhi. Some analysts attribute the rising price of gold to the booming economies of China and India and a resulting investment in metals. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); BONDS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (84%); GOLD MINING (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); PORK (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); SONG WRITING (57%) Stocks and Bonds; Mines and Mining; Mutual Funds; Gold; Metals and Minerals; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: VANGUARD GROUP INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: Tim Gray

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



151 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Warning: Beware of Warnings About Real Estate

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
FUND investors who amassed colossal gains in real estate over the previous few years were warned not to expect a repeat in 2005. The long-running rally could lose steam, some analysts predicted, which meant that it was time to consider selling.
 But those naysayers turned out to be wrong. Many investors who stayed the course and ignored the warnings about real estate bubbles continued to profit: the sector ended yet another year among the top fund categories.
Real estate funds returned an average of 11.9 percent, according to Morningstar, after climbing 32 percent in 2004 and 37 percent in 2003. For the five years through December, the annualized gain was 18.56 percent. By contrast, including dividends, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index returned 4.9 percent last year and 2.7 percent, annualized, over the five-year stretch. 
 So now the question re-emerges: Can this highflying sector continue its ascent? 
 ''We've been surprised that real estate has stayed as strong as it has at this point,'' said Daniel McNeela, a senior analyst at Morningstar, who, like others, is cautious again. ''The underlying fundamentals hadn't improved nearly as rapidly as the stock prices have risen.''
 There are some compelling reasons to sell right now. For one thing, holders who have long invested in real estate may want to cash out, at least to keep their portfolios' asset allocations in balance. And analysts continue to worry about where the economy and interest rates are headed and how those factors might affect real estate investment trusts -- the bulk of most of these funds' holdings. 
 Many funds, including the top performers last year, owe their success to the durability of these REIT's, companies with portfolios of commercial property that pay out most of their profits as dividends. Some analysts say that REIT's themselves are becoming overvalued, along with the properties they buy and hold, and that returns this year will be less spectacular than in previous years. REIT's returned 8.3 percent, on average, in 2005, and 18.9 percent, annualized, over the last five years, as measured by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts composite index.
 Still, the overall case for real estate remains strong. As the economy continues to grow and to generate jobs, demand for properties like apartment buildings, retail stores and office space will only rise, said Martin Cohen, co-chairman and co-chief executive of Cohen & Steers, whose Cohen & Steers Realty Shares fund was near the top of last year's performance list, returning 14.9 percent. 
 The fund's main holdings include blue-chip REIT's like Boston Properties and Vornado Realty Trust, which own office buildings in strong markets like the Northeast; the Simon Property Group, which has premium shopping malls like the Mall of America near Minneapolis; and AvalonBay Communities, which builds rental apartments in pricey housing markets in California and the Northeast. 
 Mr. Cohen, for one, dismisses the skeptics. ''I have been hearing this negative talk for the last five years,'' and each time there has been a decline, real estate quickly rebounded, he said. 
 Indeed, last year started precariously. The funds lost 6.4 percent, on average, in the first quarter amid profit-taking by institutional investors. They recovered in the second quarter, with a robust average gain of 13.2 percent, though the third-quarter return was much smaller, at 3.2 percent. The funds were up 2.6 percent, on average, in the last three months.
 REAL estate funds have been resilient partly because there has not been a major spike in long-term interest rates, which can prompt a sell-off in real estate investments, Mr. McNeela said. 
 The funds have also benefited from the limited supply of commercial buildings being developed. 
 ''On average, the replacement costs continue to go up,'' said Theodore R. Bigman, who manages Morgan Stanley real estate funds, referring to the rising cost of essentials like building materials and land. That may also help to explain the higher-than-usual number of takeovers of REIT's last year -- eight completed, six pending -- from companies looking for an efficient way to expand their real estate portfolios without having to build, he added. 
 ''We feel very glad about the limited amount of cranes in the sky producing buildings in the United States,'' Mr. Bigman said.
 One area that has had little activity is hotels. ''After 9/11, the hotel industry had been in a virtual depression -- new construction virtually disappeared,'' said G. Kenneth Heebner, manager of CGM Realty, the No. 1-performing real estate fund last year, with a 27 percent return. And the large number of hotel properties being converted into residential condominiums is shrinking the supply of hotel rooms, he said.
 CGM Realty has 71 percent of its assets in REIT's. Among its top 25 holdings are several hotel REIT's, including LaSalle Hotel Properties, Sunstone Hotel Investors, Innkeepers USA Trust and Host Marriott. 
 Mr. Bigman, meanwhile, began loading up on hotel shares in early 2002, when many investors were dumping them after the terror attacks. His Morgan Stanley Institutional U.S. Real Estate A, No. 3 on the performance list with a return of 17.7 percent, is also invested in Host Marriott, along with Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide and Hilton Hotels. (Morgan Stanley Real Estate A, for smaller investors, was up 16.76 percent and also has those holdings.) Mr. Bigman says he still likes hotel stocks because demand for hotel rooms has grown faster than supply. 
 The biggest holdings in Morgan Stanley Real Estate are Simon Property, AvalonBay and Boston Properties. Simon ''represents a great way to get exposure to Class A regional malls,'' Mr. Bigman said, adding that he thinks the company is ''undervalued versus both private real estate and its peers.'' AvalonBay, like other apartment REIT's, stands to benefit from the run-up in housing prices, as homeownership becomes less affordable, he said, and it has already profited by selling rentals to developers for condo conversions.
 Mr. Bigman likes sticking with companies that he thinks are poised for growth, and he bases his investment decisions on the quality of their underlying properties rather than on financial metrics like low price-to-earnings ratios.
 ''Returns are directly tied to continued improvement to real estate property,'' he said. ''Every time we buy a stock we view it as buying into a portfolio of real estate.'' 
 Mr. Heebner, on the other hand, is quicker to change sector preferences. His decision over the summer to unload shares of home builders and to acquire coal stocks, which now make up around 18 percent of CGM Realty's assets, has paid off handsomely. Console Energy and Arch Coal are among the fund's largest coal holdings, and each had a stellar performance last year. An additional 7 percent of the fund is in the brokerage firm C. B. Richard Ellis.
 ''We're bullish on energy prices,'' he said. And housing? ''I believe mortgage financing has become too liberal, which has lead to rising speculations,'' he said. ''People are buying more home than they can finance.'' 
 In other words: he thinks that there is a housing bubble. 
 Other fund managers would agree that some markets -- particularly parts of Florida, California and Nevada, for example -- have become overheated and overbuilt, but they caution investors not to confuse them with the commercial market.
 ''They are looking at the bubble in residential real estate, in single-family homes and condos, and translating that to a bubble in other parts of real estate,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''They are unrelated.'' 
 Mr. Bigman concurred: ''Is there a bubble in commercial real estate? We would argue that there isn't.'' 
 But he had this to say to those investors who might have been left behind in the real estate fund rally: ''We're sorry you missed the best run-up that we had in years, and we strongly discourage you from expecting comparable returns. However, having a meaningful allocation still makes sense.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn., has more than 500 stores. Some investors say that the cool down in real estate does not apply to commercial property. (Photo by Ingrid Young for The New York Times)(pg. 23)
 The Marriott Marquis in Manhattan. Some fund investors are drawn to hotel properties because demand for rooms often outpaces supply. (Photo by Mark Lennihan/Associated Press)(pg. 30)Chart: ''Another Year, Another Climb''The real estate sector continued to be one of the top fund categories in 2005, despite some analysts' warnings. Here is a comparison of the Standard & Poor's 500 and the NAREIT Composite Index, which tracks publicly traded real estate investment trusts.Graph tracks monthly returns for S. & P. 500 and NAREIT Composite since 2000.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); JOB CREATION (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Real Estate Investment Trusts; Mutual Funds; Two Thousand Five (Year)

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (60%); SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (58%); COHEN & STEERS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Morningstar Inc

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (60%); SPG (NYSE) (58%); CNS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (60%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%)

PERSON: Vivian Marino

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%); MINNESOTA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



152 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: One Square Mile, One Simmering Issue

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLL

DATELINE: ROCKLEIGH 

 BODY:
THIS one-square-mile borough in upper Bergen County -- peaceful, obscure and nearly impossible to reach -- does not have a traffic light let alone a police force. The business district consists of a lone gas station without a convenience store. 
 Yet Rockleigh, largely an enclave of million-dollar houses and yards measured by the acre, may be the next home of the county's youth detention center, and the approximately 600 residents of what has been designated a National Historic District are not at all pleased.
 Last October, Bergen County Executive Dennis McNerney commissioned a feasibility study of a section of county-owned land here as the possible site of a 32-bed detention center to replace the current facility in Paramus, which is almost 60 years old and in disrepair. 
 ''This is really not a case of 'not in my backyard,' '' said Mayor Nick Langella. ''I refuse to say build it in Paramus or build it in Hackensack or Oshkosh. I'm just saying, as a resident, it is not fair to the residents up here.'' 
 To Mr. Langella, the argument is simple: building a detention center in his relatively anonymous town would be an economic and logistical nightmare. 
 For one thing, he said, moving the center here -- about 30 minutes from its current site in Paramus -- would be more time-consuming for officers to transport inmates to and from the county courthouse in Hackensack. 
 ''I'm not going to put Rockleigh against any other town,'' Mr. Langella said of the detention center, ''but it does not belong in the northern valley up here.''
 Trying to lower the temperature a bit, Mr. McNerney said that results of the study being conducted by a private consulting firm were expected to be released in the next several days and that until everyone had a chance to review the findings ''it is way too early for them to get all jazzed up.''
 ''If this was a baseball game, we're not even up to bat in the first inning yet,'' Mr. McNerney said. ''Let's wait and see what the experts have to say.'' 
 The site being considered in Rockleigh for the $10 million detention center is on 49 acres of county-owned property that once served as a Catholic orphanage and now houses, among other things, a nursing home, a vocational school, a center for people with autism and a rehabilitation work program for former convicts. 
 Brian Hague, a spokesman for Mr. McNerney, said that the land was ideal for the detention center and that the county already owned it, which would spare the cost of buying a privately owned parcel -- as much as $8 million to $10 million. 
 As of last Wednesday, there were 14 inmates at the 38-bed center in Paramus, a two-story building that was intended as a hospital for patients with special needs when it opened in 1957, although it was also used to house some detained youths at that time. 
 Last year, the State Juvenile Justice Commission issued a report saying the current detention center was antiquated, and that among other things, the rooms needed to be larger and have electrified locks on the doors. ''We can only do those things by building a new center," Mr. Hague said. 
 In addition to those problems, Mr. McNerney said, ''There are fire hazards in there, and the fire department has expressed serious concerns.'' 
 Originally, the county had planned to build a new detention center on land used for leaf mulching near the existing center in Paramus, but residents and town officials there balked, so county officials began looking for an alternative location.
 ''We need this built,'' Mr. McNerney said. ''No one is rushing to say 'build this in our town,' so we are doing what is necessary and looking at options.'' 
 The detention center houses youths 13 to 18 years old who are charged with such offenses as burglary, aggravated assault and the possession or use of drugs. Those deemed by a judge to pose a greater risk to themselves or others are housed at the Bergen County Jail in Hackensack. 
 Mr. McNerney said the majority of the youths detained at the center spend an average of 31 days there, after which most are either released in the custody of their parents or placed in a drug treatment program.
 ''There are no convicted murderers in there,'' he said. 
 Those assurances from Mr. McNerney are providing little comfort to residents here as well as in neighboring Northvale and Norwood. Even the local police officials in those two towns are quick to point out problems with placing the center on what is currently a vacant grassy lot on Piermont Road. 
 ''There are no highways, no direct access to get up here,'' said Bruce Tietjen, chief of the Northvale Police Department, whose 15-member police force patrols Rockleigh, ''and that makes it hard for other emergency workers to get up here and for visitors, too.'' 
 In addition, there are no trains and only a New Jersey Transit bus line that stops in Northvale, more than a mile from the proposed site. 
 Logistics aside, Chief Tietjen said he had security concerns. 
 ''If something happens over there and my officers have to respond,'' he said, ''that leaves other areas of town not being covered and that's not a good thing.'' 
 Sitting in his kitchen on Paris Road, 64-year-old Gaetano Formoso looked out a large window to the site of the proposed detention center, which was visible just beyond a wooded area. 
 ''It's possible that one of them might escape, and then you don't know what would happen if they get into the neighborhood,'' said Mr. Formoso, who lives with his wife in a large Dutch Colonial house. ''Let them build it someplace else.'' 
 Just over the state line, in Orangetown, N.Y., Thom Kleiner, the town supervisor, shared those concerns. 
 ''We are certainly with our neighbors on security issues, because they won't respect state borders if they get out,'' Mr. Kleiner said. 
 Minimizing such concerns, Mr. Hague said that since 1972, when the hospital was completely converted to a detention center, only 5 of the more than 17,500 youths detained at the Paramus center have fled, and ''in not one of those occurrences has a resident had contact with a juvenile detainee.'' 
 In addition, he said that guards and county police officers would be on duty at the center around the clock. 
 ''If the report says that the Rockleigh site is not feasible, we'll go from there,'' Mr. Hague said. ''Everyone is just jumping the gun.'' 
 For now, residents have started a Web site -- www.stopnorthernvalleyjail.com -- that urges people who oppose the center to contact elected officials like Mr. McNerney and to attend county freeholder meetings this month to ask that ''county officials place this facility where it best serves the interests of all the residents of Bergen County.'' 
 In front of most of the lavish houses that make up much of Rockleigh, placards advertising the Web site were visible on snow-covered lawns. Mayor Langella has gone one step further, hanging a large banner on a wooden fence in front of his house and another at a gas station he owns in Norwood. 
 In an op-ed article that appeared recently in The Record, Kevin M. Ryan, the state's child advocate, said the bickering about building the proposed detention center was detracting from the main issues. 
 ''No matter where the county decides to locate a new detention center, we implore everyone not to give into fear and misunderstanding,'' Mr. Ryan wrote with Lawrence Murphy, chairman of the Bergen County Youth Services Commission. ''As the debate unfolds, we urge all sides to resist the base temptation to vilify errant teens as little monsters. No goodwill can come of that lie. It is long past time to rescue our kids from this mythology and demand the construction of a safe, state-of-the-art facility as soon as possible.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Rockleigh Mayor Nick Langella, above, standing near the possible site for a new youth detention center, which he says would be unfair to his town's residents, like Maria and Gaetano Formoso, far left, who live near the site. Northvale Police Chief Bruce Tietjen, near left, whose 15-officer force patrols Rockleigh, said access to the proposed site is difficult. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); PRISONS (76%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (71%); BASEBALL (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (60%); CONVENIENCE STORES (57%); AUTISM (50%) 

PERSON: John Holl; nick (mayor) langella

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) rockleigh (nj); Hackensack (NJ); Paramus (NJ); Bergen County (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



153 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 5; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1777 words

HEADLINE: Love (and Leave) Thy Neighbor

BYLINE: By ALLEN SALKIN

 BODY:
HANNAH is the macabre temptress on the top floor who has dead spiders pinned and framed on her walls and a bed that swings from chains. Mike is the big-talking ladies' man in Apartment 2 who returns home -- often alone -- bragging about his conquests. Sara and Ramon of Apartments 4 and 5 are the canoodling couple, running back and forth between floors to fetch iPods and cigarettes. 
 There are times when a confluence of people find a way to become a sort of family. It can happen at summer camp and in college dormitories and at Internet start-ups. But in New York, where many people don't know their neighbors and prefer it that way, 126 Rivington Street, where the residents eat together, often sleep together and live above a cupcake shop, is an anomaly.
Ever since Mike Dreeland, 32, moved into the second-floor apartment with two friends from Green Mountain College in Poultney, Vt., two and a half years ago and started having parties on his rear patio, the 102-year-old tenement between Essex and Norfolk Streets on the Lower East Side has become a cross between the shenanigan-filled apartment building on ''Friends'' and the drama-soaked fictional complex Melrose Place, 3,000 miles away in Los Angeles. 
 Other characters include Tom, ''the old man'' (37), who gave up a career to try making it as a writer in New York; Zobes, an aspiring rock star; Pauline, a photographer; Jo, a publicist for a clothing designer; Stefania, a pathology resident; Tito, a stock trader; and an honorary member, Piper Perabo, the actress. She lives in the building next door but socializes with 126 residents from her rear terrace.
 The 15 members of the 126 gang drink at Iggy's on Ludlow or Whiskey Ward on Essex, eat at 'Inoteca on Rivington (where they are friends with one of the chefs), buy birthday cupcakes at Sugar Sweet Sunshine on the ground floor, and wallow in one another's personal affairs whether they like to or not. There have been at least six sexual relationships in the building, along with an untold number of angrily slammed doors and tearful reconciliations. As with ''Friends'' and ''Melrose Place,'' the central theme of this show may be: how long can one continue to enjoy the bacchanalian pleasures of youth before one craves a quieter adult existence?
 ''One by one we met the neighbors,'' said James Moore, 24, an advertising executive who lives in Apartment 4, ''and realized that pretty much everybody is under 30 and has a not-quite-serious career going on and a disposition to party -- too many nights a week probably.''
 Most of the residents arrived three years ago after the building's owners completed a gut renovation and started renting the six units. (The three-bedroom floor-through apartments rent for around $3,000 a month each; the one-bedrooms for about $2,000.) And it wasn't long after Mr. Dreeland, an art director for Steve Madden, started having his patio parties that the soap operas began. 
 One of Mr. Dreeland's roommates, Chris Lotito (called Tito), 31, fresh from a broken engagement, became entangled with a woman a floor above who has since moved out. ''She popped in,'' he said on a recent Saturday at his apartment. ''She took me for a little tour of the Lower East Side. Finally we left a bar together and nature took its course.''
 That dalliance was short-lived. Soon after, Sara Rawitz, 26, a slim blonde with an easy-to-talk-to personality, moved to the fifth floor with two roommates, and Mr. Dreeland, Mr. Lotito and their other roommate, Kevin Marrazzo, 33, all began trying to wine and dine her. She chose one, Mr. Marrazzo, but the relationship didn't last. ''I wasn't really interested, and I knew he was,'' Ms. Rawitz said. ''He's one of those guys who falls hard.''
 The two managed to go an entire year without talking or running into each other, until Mr. Marrazzo moved out last June, at which point Ms. Rawitz started a relationship with Ramon Lopez, 25, a lanky software consultant who lives on the fourth floor. 
 ''I got all hot and heavy one night because I was reading this book a girlfriend gave me about sexual techniques,'' she said. ''He was text-messaging me, and I wrote, 'Hey, you should come up.' '' Mr. Lopez climbed the fire escape straight into her room. 
 On a recent Saturday the ebb and flow of life at 126 Rivington was on full display. In the fourth floor apartment, where there was a distinctive postparty odor in the air, Mr. Lopez was showing off his ''Team Ramon'' T-shirts, which he'd had made for fellow 126 tenants and other friends. The logo reads, ''No Shame.'' 
 Downstairs, Johanna Lafferty, known as Jo, could be heard returning to her second- floor apartment from a two-bloody-mary brunch across the street at Essex Restaurant. Mr. Lopez said it had been hard at first to negotiate a relationship with someone who lived so near by, but he said that he and Ms. Rawitz have just started treating their apartments like a duplex. As he spoke, Mr. Lopez's roommate, Chris Zobler, a software salesman for I.B.M. and an aspiring rock star who goes by Zobes, stared silently ahead. 
 ''He was my good friend I would hang out with and have fun with until I started sleeping with his roommate and best friend,'' Ms. Rawitz explained later, saying that Mr. Zobler ''hates'' the relationship and no longer speaks to her. 
 A few days later Mr. Zobler, who is 25 and not dating anyone, said by phone that the couple is ruining the group dynamic. ''It's all about the team,'' he said, ''at least for the rest of us, but they've started separating out a bit.''
 On the top floor Hannah Long, 27, lives in an apartment that smells like incense and hot tea. A scorpion, a tarantula and several preserved beetles hang in display boxes along the walls. She is a satellite fixture at 126, traveling a lot, but as a self-described ''serial neighbor dater'' she is an intimate member of the group nonetheless. 
 Mr. Dreeland said that Ms. Long once telephoned him 15 times in a day. ''It's a little soap opera I'd rather my boyfriend didn't know about,'' she said, rolling a cigarette on the arm of a large wooden chair from Bali. 
 As for Mr. Dreeland, he now prefers to date people outside the building. Wearing a ski cap while watching Comedy Central in his apartment, he recounted the adventure of the night before, when he brought home what he described as an ''urban cougar,'' a woman over 40, he explained, who is attracted to younger men. Apparently this particular cougar didn't turn out to be all that interested, he admitted.
 There are comfortably homey touches to life at 126, like the warm cake smell emanating from the exhaust fans of Sugar Sweet Sunshine on the first floor. Deb Weiner, a co-owner of the shop, doubles as a sort of den mother for the building, storing keys and accepting packages for residents. 
 Most people seem to thrive on the ready-made companionship at 126. Tom Zoellner, a former newspaper reporter whose first book, ''The Heartless Stone: A Journey Through the World of Diamonds, Deceit and Desire'' (St. Martin's), is scheduled to come out in May, lives on the third floor with two female roommates and said that after sitting in his room all day writing he looks forward to socializing in the building. 
 ''The freelance life can be disconnected from the spin and flow of humanity,'' he said. And he likes the way his female roommates decorate, ''a little slice of Des Moines on the Lower East Side,'' he said. ''The sectional couch, the gingham checkered washcloths.'' At 37, he and Thomas Zoli, 34, an architect who lives in one of the top-floor one-bedrooms, are described by other residents as ''older.''
 Many New Yorkers their age -- or any age -- would not choose to live in a place almost devoid of privacy. In most buildings, especially rentals, ''there's an unspoken social rule that you only nod at your neighbors or grunt at them in the elevator,'' said Lockhart Steele, the publisher of the real estate blog Curbed.com.
 Some who have tasted the 126 life prefer grunting at their neighbors to sleeping with them. Dave Courage, 28, a marketer at the publisher HarperCollins, who organized last year's Valentine's Day party at the building, moved out of his third-floor apartment in July. ''It was a lot of fun, but I needed to start going to bed a little earlier,'' he said. He moved to Brooklyn. ''There isn't any socializing in the building, which is a relief for me.''
 The walls at 126 are thin. Ms. Long said she first met her next-door neighbor when she ran into him in the hall and mimicked the sounds she heard him make when in bed with his girlfriend. Ms. Lafferty of the third floor said she has had to beg the guys downstairs to turn their music down in the wee hours.
 One doesn't have to live in the building to be infected with its spirit of camaraderie. Ms. Perabo, 29, the actress, who is currently in ''Cheaper by the Dozen 2,'' was watering plants on her terrace on the building next door to 126 when she met Ms. Rawitz, who was out on her fire escape. Since then Ms. Perabo has developed a friendly if at times adversarial relationship with the group.
 ''The nights they have their music up really loud,'' Ms. Perabo said by phone from Los Angeles, ''I will wake up really early, like I always do, and turn my yoga music up really loud. You woke me up, so I'll wake you up.''
 Mr. Dreeland said he had no ill will for Ms. Perabo, a star of ''Coyote Ugly.'' ''Tell Piper we have no problem with her,'' he said. ''We'd love for her to come down for a drink.'' 
 Of 14 residents who lived at 126 in January 2003, eight are still there. ''It's a love-hate relationship,'' said Vinnie Grippa, 33, who moved into Apartment 2 eight months ago. ''When you're looking to party, it's good, but I don't know how long I can do it.'' 
 The manager of the property, Rosalie Schwartz of S&H Equities in Great Neck, N.Y., didn't know that the building had become such a community. She said she has ''no major problems'' with the tenants. For now, whenever a rare vacancy comes up, the building mates put out word among their friends. Mr. Courage's replacement, Judy Lai, 25, who recently left her job as an investment associate on Wall Street and is unemployed, attended Babson College in Massachusetts with Mr. Zobler, Mr. Lopez and Mr. Moore.
 ''Melrose Place,'' with its aging characters having finally bedded, punched, fired, betrayed and defrauded one another in nearly every possible combination, was canceled in 1999.
 ''We're thinking we have two or three more years of this stuff before we have to wrap it up,'' Mr. Dreeland said. His roommate Mr. Lotito corrected him: ''But we also said that when we were 27.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: MELROSE PLACE, LOWER EAST SIDE -- Top, from left, Thomas Zoli and cousin Stefania Giobbe
third floor, Sara Rawitz, Hannah Long, Judy Lai
second floor, Ramon Lopez, James Moore, Chris Zobler
bottom, Deb Weiner, Johanna Lafferty, Mike Dreeland, Chris Lotito. (Photo by Cary Conover for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
ONE BIG FAMILY -- Some of the people in the orbit of 126 Rivington Street, clockwise from above: From left, Chris Zobler, James Moore, Ramon Lopez, Sara Rawitz
Hannah Long
Piper Perabo
Julie McCarthy, left, and her roommate Johanna Lafferty
Chris Lotito, left, and Mike Dreeland. (Photographs by Cary Conover for The New York Times
 Frazer Harrison/Getty Images [Piper Perabo])(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (70%); WRITERS (65%); FASHION DESIGNERS (64%); STARTUPS (55%); INTERNET & WWW (55%) Housing; Television; Television; Friendship; Apartment Houses

PERSON: Allen Salkin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



154 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: From Sticks to Sturdier Wood

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AT first, making furniture played second fiddle to making music for Felix Hendrickson -- a way to pay the bills when the club dates that topped his career agenda were slow in coming.
 Today, making furniture and other woodwork is his main gig, while his drum playing has segued into an avocational refrain.
Mr. Hendrickson, 40, who played with various rock, blues, country and jazz groups in clubs in Greenwich Village and the Southwest in the late 1980's and the 90's, is a co-owner of Hendrickson Custom Cabinetry, which he founded in the Bronx three years ago. 
 The company, which his wife, Lisa Hendrickson, later joined as the other owner, specializes in producing custom furniture and other fittings, including bookcases and cabinets as large as the walls they front, largely for houses and apartments that affluent residents are renovating. Most of its work is in Manhattan.
 The company's jobs generally range in price from $30,000 to $200,000, said Ms. Hendrickson, 42, who was a technical writer, business strategist and Internet consultant before becoming her husband's partner.
 Mr. Hendrickson said he began in the furniture-making business 14 years ago by sweeping floors and doing other menial chores in a shop in Austin, Tex., where the blues and rock group he was then part of had moved from New York several years earlier.
 He knew nothing about cabinetry at the time, he said, but the shop's owners ''saw I had some aptitude for it,'' and soon he was an apprentice, cutting and sanding and learning the types and grades of wood. Eventually, he graduated to tasks like custom-building entire curved-back laminated chairs and helping to fabricate desks. 
 The Hendricksons, who live in Manhattan, said they were more than satisfied with their company's progress. Revenue has gone from $333,000 in 2003 -- an 11-month year because the business began in late January that year-- to $650,000 in 2004 and about $900,000 last year, Mr. Hendrickson said. He estimated that it would be $1.2 million this year.
 ''The renovation market is very solid and active in Manhattan,'' he said. Specialists in that market note that it often has its ups and downs, linked to the real estate sales market. But Mr. Hendrickson said he was confident about the long term because he believed that the architects who engage his company to carry out their designs were pleased with the work, and that this would keep the company sound whatever the market conditions.
 His confidence appears to be shared by the federal Small Business Administration, which recently guaranteed a $100,000 bank loan to the company for use as working capital. Steadily rising revenue, though, has not meant profits, so far, because of the start-up costs and the purchase of major machinery. Mr. Hendrickson said he paid $60,000 to buy the machinery and other assets of a similar company that was previously in the Hendrickson space -- he had been that company's general manager for three years -- and he and his wife then financed about $160,000 in additional equipment with a combination of savings and a loan.
 This resulted in ''moderate losses'' in 2003 and 2004, and the company broke even last year, Mr. Hendrickson said. But he expects a profit this year, he said, because no major capital investments are planned, ''and the new machinery gives us bigger capacity.''
 In a shop whose products and their parts are fabricated to order -- ''we don't use manufactured widgets,'' Mr. Hendrickson said -- the more time that machines can save in the fabrication process, the brighter the bottom line, because labor costs are harder to reduce. 
 Hendrickson's work force, which has grown to 13 from 4 since the company began, is highly skilled and semiskilled, and labor costs are the biggest operating expense, he said.
 The combination of mechanization and skilled hand work were on display last week during a visit to the shop, in the Port Morris area of the Bronx. 
 There were machines for smoothing large wooden surfaces and finishing their edges at high speed. And there was a worker using his fingers and some basic tools to painstakingly attach a fastener called a butterfly joint to hold together a large piece of partly split Swiss pear wood that is to be part of a desk.
 ''We use split wood,'' Mr. Hendrickson said, ''for the organic look.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: THE DAY JOB -- Felix and Lisa Hendrickson in their custom cabinetry shop in the Bronx. Mr. Hendrickson founded it three years ago after playing the drums for a living. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE MFG (91%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (88%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (68%); COMPANY REVENUES (62%); WORKING CAPITAL (50%) Furniture; Wood and Wood Products; Company and Organization Profiles; Restoration and Rehabilitation

PERSON: Joseph P Fried; Felix Hendrickson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



155 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEW YORK BOOKSHELF/NONFICTION; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: In City of Millions, an Endless Supply of Memories

 BODY:

CONFESSIONS OF A PARK AVENUE PLASTIC SURGEON
By Cap Lesesne, M.D.
Gotham Books
($26, hardcover)
 After three thrilling, exhausting, mind-bending years at Stanford, I came east for another residency, this one specializing in plastic surgery, at the Cornell and New York Hospital, another world-renowned institution. In North Carolina I'd learned to be a doctor, in California a surgeon. In New York, I would learn to be a plastic surgeon.
 At New York Hospital, I learned an enormous amount -- about different types of face-lifts, about rhinoplasties, about dealing with burns. At Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, one of my last rotations, I did reconstructive surgery on cancer patients. As a surgeon doing that kind of work your mind-set is very different from what it is when you do cosmetic work. You're not worried at all about scars. Instead, you're doing things like repairing large defects and covering chest holes. You're happy if the patient is just able to leave the hospital alive. 
I also learned who some of the good guys in New York medicine were, and who were the bad guys.

THE ELLIS ISLAND SNOW GLOBE
By Erica Rand
Duke University Press
($22.95, paperback)
 While Ellis Island accounts are generally discreet about physical presence, save for the occasional invitation to imagine the smell of thousands of immigrants newly arrived from steerage, several tidbits about immigrants encountering unfamiliar people at Ellis Island call up the fullness of close looking and proximity. 
 One often retold story, also included in the Ellis Island Immigration Museum audio tour narrated by Tom Brokaw, relates that many European immigrants saw a black person for the first time at Ellis Island. Narratives of such encounters from the other side are harder to find -- perhaps because European immigrants formed the vast majority, but just as much, I suspect, because racial difference is more readily popularized as the spectacle of dark people rather than the distasteful odor of white people.
 One example, however, appears in the oral testimony of Ayleen Watts James, which visitors may hear on an audio loop if they pick up a phone in a display called ''The Last Hurdle.'' James, who arrived from Panama with her mother in 1923, recounts that after having spent a year making them new clothes for the journey, with ''handmade lace and all,'' her mother was horrified to find herself surrounded by Europeans filthy from their long voyage, and tried, sobbing, to pull herself and her daughter away from them.

FUZZ ONE: A Bronx Childhood
By Vincent Fedorchak
Testify Books
($32, hardcover)
 You should have seen those trains go by! Historic graffiti legends. The writers back then lit up the trains in colorful flames. Ebony Dukes, T.E.D. Incorporated, Graffiti Go-Club, W.A.R. -- Writers Are Respected. Amazing burners soaring through the train stations. Single-hits, top-to-bottoms, window-downs, wholecars, floaters, throw-ups and blockbusters covered the trains that floated by. 
 They had flames bursting, crowns on top of letters, stars, stitches, dots and bubbles. Masterpieces flying by. There was the champagne glass with bubbles, and the Playboy bunny with the rabbit ears, one ear up and one down.

STARS OF DAVID: Prominent Jews Talk About Being Jewish
By Abigail Pogrebin
Broadway Books
($24.95, hardcover)

 Joan Rivers:
 Did she ever feel she looked too Jewish? ''Oh, I know I do!'' She laughs heartily. ''I look at pictures of myself and I look like what I am: a middle-aged or old Jewish matron. There it is. You are what you are. But I'm also so proud when it's a Jew that wins the Pulitzer Prize or the Nobel Prize. And conversely, I'm always so glad when the serial killer isn't Jewish.''
 She concedes there are times she wishes she had a different religion: ''Every time I see a good-looking German guy in leather.'' She laughs again. ''Show me a blond blue-eyed guy in leather and I'll say, 'Oh, what a pity I'm Jewish!' ''
 But her parents instilled an unshakable self-respect and urged her to marry within the faith. ''It was important to me, too,'' she adds. ''First of all we're the chosen people, and I like that we're continuing; I don't want it to stop. If these people have struggled thousands and thousands of years, it should not stop with me.
 ''Who am I to say, 'You buried your candles during the Inquisition and now I've decided not to continue'?''

CRASH OUT: THE TRUE TALE OF A HELL'S KITCHEN KID AND THE BLOODIEST ESCAPE IN SING SING HISTORY
By David Goewey
Crown Publishers
($24.95, hardcover)
 In New York City, a gambling racket that brought in $35,000 a day paid for Dutch Schultz's $300 suits -- complete with powder-blue vest and spats. ''Lucky'' Luciano, by then the head of the Unione Siciliane -- America's early Mafia -- and running his bootlegging and prostitution empires from a well-protected, high-rise suite at the East Side Barbizon Plaza, bragged about paying $10,000 to $20,000 a week to New York police headquarters.
 By comparison, federal agents assigned to enforce the 18th Amendment did so on little more than $2,000 a year. Given the raucous disregard in which the law was held, and the obscene sums changing hands, the temptation of graft was overwhelming for many policemen, especially as the economic good times of the 1920's soured.
 By the early 30's, the hard times seemed never-ending. Four area hospitals reported 95 deaths by starvation in 1931, as the Great Depression deepened and bread lines shuffled along the sidewalks. In 1932, New York's worst year of the catastrophe, nearly 1,600 people killed themselves -- the most suicides in more than three decades.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); WRITERS (89%); IMMIGRATION (86%); CANCER (78%); CANCER HOSPITALS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); TRAINS (64%); TESTIMONY (61%); WITNESSES (61%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: cap (dr) lesesne; erica rand; vincent fedorchak; Abigail Pogrebin; david goewey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (53%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



156 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2036 words

HEADLINE: Feeling the Homesickness Slip Away

BYLINE: By CARIN RUBENSTEIN

 BODY:
THREE applied early to their first-choice colleges and were accepted. The remaining five were accepted by 27 colleges, put on a wait-list by 4 others and rejected by 16. All eight students who shared their travails with a reporter last year are now freshmen at four-year colleges or universities, in California, Michigan, Illinois, and up and down the East Coast. 
 How is college living up to their expectations?
 For the most part, the eight miss their old friends a lot more than they miss their families, and they love being away from home. Some -- even a few rejected by their first choices -- can't imagine being at any other college. Others are not convinced they made the right decision. 
 According to figures compiled by the National Center for Education Statistics in Washington, about one in four students who begin at a four-year college will transfer elsewhere.

Stephanie Aguilar
 First in her Yonkers High School class of 190, Stephanie Aguilar, 18, was accepted by all seven of the colleges she applied to. In the end, she said, she chose between Wesleyan and Cornell. 
 She liked Wesleyan a lot, she said, but ''it was very liberal artsy,'' and she felt much more at home at Cornell in Ithaca, where she now attends the School of Human Ecology, majoring in nutrition.
 Because she received scholarships and grants, her parents will pay about $4,500 to educate her this year, according to Ms. Aguilar.
 As for homesickness, Ms. Aguilar said she was surprised how little she had suffered. 
 ''I thought I'd be missing my friends and my parents and the comfortable environment,'' she said, ''but once I got to school, life happened.'' 
 She especially loves the sense of independence she has gained being away from home, though she admits that she has had to refine her time-management skills.
 ''I learned how to do that in high school,'' she said, ''but the amount of work I have to do is so much more.'' 
 Last fall she joined Mosaic, an organization for gay people of color, as well as the university's Gay-Straight Alliance. 
 ''When I went to Cornell, I didn't expect to encounter as many openly gay people as I have,'' she said, adding that the place is ''very empowering and very supportive'' of her sexual orientation.

Zachary Johnson
 After he was accepted early by Stanford University, Zachary Johnson, 18, withdrew his applications elsewhere, because he was convinced that the school was right for him.
 It didn't take long for him to discover that he was right. 
 ''I would not have as much fun as I'm having anywhere else,'' Mr. Johnson said, adding: ''I absolutely love Stanford. It's full of energy and there's a real sense of community, and I feel at home there.'' Mr. Johnson, elected president of his dormitory, says he is involved in ''a really happy atmosphere,'' noting that ''freedom is fun.''
 He ranked 32nd in a class of 600 at New Rochelle High School, and scored 1350 out of a possible 1600 on the SAT. He now says that although he has more work at college, it is somewhat easier than high school work was.
 Also, he has made really close friends really fast.
 ''I've known my high school friends for my entire life,'' he said, ''but I feel like I've known my college friends my entire life, too, because I live with them every day.'' 
 He is never homesick. Although he knows his parents miss him, he speaks to them perhaps once a week. ''My mom e-mails me a lot,'' he said, ''but I don't always respond.''
 Although he applied to Stanford for financial aid to defray the $45,000 annual cost, Mr. Johnson did not receive any.

Jessica Davidson
 A clarinet player at Scarsdale High School who scored 1440 on the SAT, Jessica Davidson, 18, barely remembers any of those irrelevant statistics anymore. After she was accepted early by Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill., she has never looked back. Indeed, even now, in the depth of the frigid winter, she says she is thrilled with the place.
 ''There's so much variety in what to do academically and socially,'' said Ms. Davidson, who has already chosen art history as her major, and ''there are so many courses I can take in everything that interests me.'' 
 As for everything else: Ms. Davidson says that she gets along with her roommate, that the food is good, though not varied, and that there are plenty of parties to go to.
 Still, ''it's hard to be away from home,'' she said, ''because there are so many things you have to figure out how to do for yourself.'' Those things include making doctor appointments, finding a cheap dry cleaner, doing laundry when the basket is full, and getting to the grocery store on a bike, she said.
 Though she says she is not homesick, Ms. Davidson calls someone in her family nearly every day. She thinks her mother, especially, misses her. 
 ''She's quieter, which is not necessarily a good thing,'' Ms. Davidson said.

Max Kravitz
 At White Plains High School, Max Kravitz, 18, had a grade point average of 4.1 and scored a 1370 on the SAT. After being accepted by 5 of 11 schools, Mr. Kravitz, 18, ultimately chose between Union College, which offered him a merit scholarship of $12,000 a year, and George Washington University, which offered him no aid. He chose George Washington for its highly rated international affairs program, an option not available at Union.
 Once on campus, Mr. Kravitz became adept at working the system: he wrote a fervent appeal for financial aid that must have been enormously persuasive. The college awarded him a half-tuition merit scholarship, worth about $18,000 a year, he said.
 His dormitory, Thurston Hall, which houses 1,100 freshmen, does not seem all that different from his family's apartment building in White Plains. ''I thought it would be louder and more obnoxious than it is,'' he said.
 But the similarity in this case has not enamored him of George Washington. And there is also the fact that he hasn't yet made close friends. 
 ''I have friends, but I'm not one to make close friends quickly,'' he said, adding that he hadn't expected ''to miss my high school friends as much and talk with them as often as I do,'' which is pretty much every day.
 Despite his reservations, though, Mr. Kravitz is a university cheerleader, one of 13 men and 11 women who practice two hours at a time, six days a week. He cheers at every home game for the men's and women's basketball teams, two to four times a week, as well as at some tournament games, he said.
 About his decision to enroll, he said, ''I don't think I did badly.'' But his final verdict on George Washington ''is up in the air.''

Chloe Wilson
 As a 16-year-old senior at Mount Vernon High School, Chloe Wilson was a tennis player who graduated 60th in a class of 500, and scored 1000 on the SAT. She was denied admission at her first choice, Spelman College, a historically black college for women in Atlanta. But she was accepted by Penn State, Syracuse, Loyola and Binghamton University, though a few acceptances were contingent on her successful completion of an Educational Opportunity Program for underprivileged students. 
 In the end, Ms. Wilson decided to go to Binghamton, because she didn't want to leave New York, and because at Syracuse, ''it was a rat race and everyone was a number,'' she said. ''At Binghamton, it's more personalized, more like a family.''
 Attending the educational program there last summer was the best college preparation she could have undergone, said Ms. Wilson, whose sense of confidence, both personal and academic, has soared since high school.
 The program ''was almost a little boot camp,'' in which she had to take several rigorous classes and even observe a curfew. 
 ''When I got back to campus in September,'' she said, ''I didn't feel like a freshman. I had more than 100 friends already, and I had already scoped out the dorm, and I had my courses.''
 In the fall, ''my mother was ready for me to go, and I was ready to go, too,'' said Ms. Wilson, especially as her mother had had a baby in June. Although fond of her new brother, Ms. Wilson was eager to embark on her new life.

Julie Scarpino
 A diver and dancer with a 3.86 average at Byram Hills High School, 18-year-old Julie Scarpino scored 1330 on the SAT. She applied early decision to Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C., and was accepted. 
 She is very happy there now, she says, although she misses her friends and sometimes ''I wish I were closer to home so I could see my family.''
 Ms. Scarpino has made close friends at school, most of them from Tennessee and North Carolina, and nearly all hoping to visit her in New York, to see the city and the snow, she said. One new friend has lent her distinctive voice to Ms. Scarpino's cellphone voice-mail message, which begins with an enthusiastic ''Hey, y'all!'' The friend did this ''to scare my Northern friends,'' Ms. Scarpino said with a laugh.
 She has been surprised by the amount of socializing. She says weekends start on Wednesday night, ''and there's always a movie or a club or someplace to be.'' 
 But even so, the schoolwork is difficult and the students highly motivated. Academically, ''we're ranked with the highest workload in the country,'' Ms. Scarpino said, adding that ''the library is full at 3 in the morning.'' 
 Apparently, she knows from experience.

Andrew Ecker
 When he didn't get into Georgetown University, Andrew Ecker, 18, was deeply disappointed. Now he is sure that he couldn't be happier there than he is at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.
 With a 3.96 average at Byram Hills High School and a 1480 on the SAT, Mr. Ecker played soccer and was on the ski and golf teams. Despite his strong record, he was also denied admission at Duke and the University of North Carolina and put on a wait-list by Tufts. 
 In the end he chose Michigan over Washington University in St. Louis and the University of Southern California. After visiting all three last spring, he decided that Southern Cal ''was just too far away,'' and that, ultimately, ''I wanted a big school with a rah-rah attitude.'' 
 At first he was unnerved to realize that there were more students in his introductory economics class (about 300) than there had been in his high school graduating class (about 180). 
 But he has clearly learned to navigate the huge, somewhat impersonal bureaucracy of a large state-university system. He was dissatisfied with his housing assignment first semester, for example, so he arranged to move into a new dorm with a new roommate later this month, without help from the college. 
 ''There are too many kids with housing situations for the school to deal with me personally,'' he said. 
 He has joined a fraternity, which has made life ''a lot of fun.'' Weekends generally begin with fraternity parties on Thursday nights. Perhaps as a result, he is not at all homesick. In fact, by the end of December, he was already ''homesick to go back to Michigan.''

Franklin Ordonez
 The first in his family to attend college, Franklin Ordonez, 18, set his sights on the Ivy League. Ranked 30th in a class of 285 at Ossining High School, he was rejected by the University of Pennsylvania, Harvard, Georgetown and Cornell, but accepted by Dartmouth. 
 He is now in residence in Hanover, N.H., and likes it so far -- if only just. 
 Dartmouth has students from all 50 states and dozens of countries, but Mr. Ordonez was surprised to observe that it was not as diverse as he had expected. In his eyes, Hanover cannot compare with Ossining High School, where white students are in the minority and about one-third are Hispanic.
 Still, he loves the food -- especially the sausage, egg and cheese croissant, which he described as ''awesome.'' The girls there are ''cute,'' not at all like the ones at home, who tended to be lazy.
 ''Everybody is competitive, everybody wants to get an A,'' he said. ''It's like, 'Everybody get out of my way.' People get drunk every weekend and they still get A's,'' he added with amazement, saying, ''I can't live that life.''
 College has helped him ''learn how it is to live like an adult,'' said Mr. Ordonez, but he misses his friends. Sometimes he wonders if he would be happier somewhere else, but he resists the thought; it would bring him down, he says.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephanie Aguilar, left, a Cornell freshman, is learning to refine her time management. Zachary Johnson, top right, says of his choice, ''I absolutely love Stanford.'' Jessica Davidson, far right in photo, huddles with friends at Northwestern after painting the Rock, a school tradition. Max Kravitz, shown standing, in the library at George Washington, says his verdict on the university ''is up in the air.'' (Photographs by Michael J. Okoniewski [top left] and Jamie Rose [above] for The New York Times
Bryan Quinn [top right])(pg. 1)
 Now college freshmen, from left, are Chloe Wilson, Franklin Ordonez, Andrew Ecker and Julie Scarpino. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times [Wilson, Ordonez, Scarpino])(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); FAMILY (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); STATISTICS (69%); LIBERALISM (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%) 

PERSON: Carin Rubenstein; Stephanie Aguilar; Zachary Johnson; Jessica Davidson; Max Kravitz; Chloe Wilson; Julie Scarpino; Andrew Ecker; Franklin Ordonez

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



157 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Building Empire Zones

 BODY:
Before the first bill was introduced or the first official speech delivered in this year's legislative session in Albany, the three men who run New York's state government called for the cameras. Once the lights were on full, and the microphone canted in their general direction, Gov. George Pataki; the Senate majority leader, Joseph Bruno; and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, announced the creation of three new Empire Zones around the state. One would be in Nassau County, one in Livingston County and one in Chinatown. 
 If they beamed like rich patrons handing out post-holiday goodies, that is because that was just what they were doing: doling out one of the best tax breaks that New York State has to offer.
Which raises this question: Will these new zones create jobs, or will they do little more than reward political cronies, as too many of them have done in the past? 
 Empire Zones were created 20 years ago to stimulate long-term economic growth in distressed communities. It was and is an excellent idea, if it works the way it was intended to work. But two years ago, in a random sampling of Empire Zones across the state, Comptroller Alan Hevesi and his auditors reported a series of failures in the oversight and operation of these zones. 
 One notable example was a real estate company in Syracuse that created one job at an annual salary of $26,000 but claimed a tax credit of more than $250,000. Another was a Rochester company that added one $10,000-a-year position and got a tax credit of $137,000. As Mr. Hevesi noted: ''Giving companies tax breaks is giving away real money.'' 
 Although the comptroller has said he intends to continue checking on how the 75 zones operate, it is not clear, really, whether the Empire Zone program has improved since his audit. Only one important thing has really changed: the way that these zones are handed out across the state.
 Previously the governor's appointees controlled the awards. Now the governor and the two legislative leaders decide among themselves who gets these valuable tax breaks, which is why each had a reason to smile for the cameras last week. Mr. Silver was especially relieved that his own district finally earned its bonus. Chinatown and the Lower East Side of Manhattan lost over 50,000 jobs after Sept. 11, 2001, but Mr. Silver noted sourly that it took four years for this district -- his district -- to get the help it deserved.
 Maybe it is better for three politicians to control who gets these rewards, instead of just one. But the bottom line should always be not who has the clout to distribute these useful tax breaks but which blighted areas can best use them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); POLITICS (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); AUDITS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%) 

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Joseph L (Sen) Bruno; Sheldon (Speaker) Silver

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; Livingston County (NY); Chinatown (NYC); Nassau County (NY); New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



158 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; CROSS WESTCHESTER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Why School Spending Intrigues the Comptroller

BYLINE: By Debra West

 BODY:
LONG ISLAND, a trendsetter in so many wacky ways, has now inspired a statewide audit of school budgets. Since the state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, discovered that Roslyn school officials had stolen $11.2 million from the district from 1996 through 2004, he has announced plans to audit every school district in the state. 
 This month the Lakeland Central School District, which encompasses large parts of Yorktown and Cortlandt and a bit of Somers and Putnam County, will be put under the comptroller's microscope. Lakeland officials, it seems, had budgeted about $107 million for the 2004-5 school year but spent $2.2 million more. 
The district's own auditors realized the mistake in June, dipped into the district's reserve fund to make up the shortfall and officially notified the Board of Education in October, according to Ken Connolly, the Lakeland schools superintendent. 
 ''Basically, it was a situation where people weren't monitoring what was spent,'' said Mr. Connolly, who took over as superintendent in July. ''They were underestimating some expenses and overestimating others, and over the course of four or five years it didn't balance out.'' 
 The district notified the comptroller's office of its shortfall in October and took steps to reduce this year's cost, Mr. Connolly said. The Board of Education eliminated overtime, did not fill open jobs and reduced spending on field trips, materials and supplies. He says the cuts have ensured that this year's nearly $117 million school budget will not be overspent. 
 Two auditors from the comptroller's office are expected to begin working at Lakeland on Jan. 17, and the audit is expected to take months. Next on the comptroller's list for audits in Westchester this year: Mount Vernon and Yonkers.

Snow Day Surfeit?
 School districts budget for more than money. They also budget snow days into their annual calendars, and this year it looks as if the snow bank could soon be overdrawn, at least in northern Westchester. 
 ''It's really a roll of the dice, you never know,'' said Peter Litchka, superintendent of schools in North Salem, which has already used two of the four snow days built into the school calendar, even though it is the beginning of the snowiest two months. ''I don't know what they do in places like Wisconsin, or Michigan, or Buffalo, but here we err on the side of caution.'' 
 Canceling school for weather reasons is not always an easy or clear-cut decision, Dr. Litchka said. When bad weather is forecast, he is up at 3 a.m. fielding calls from school bus and highway workers who report in on conditions. And he has plenty of company. Across northern Westchester, school superintendents rise early in winter.
 ''Those are the items that on the next day, everybody has a thought on how it should have been done,'' said Debra Jackson, superintendent of the Bedford schools, which are spread out over an area of 55 square miles. ''If you live near a highway and everything is plowed, it doesn't make sense when school is canceled. If you live on a back road and you are the last one plowed, you see it differently.''

Let the Games Begin
 It was never as bitter a competition as that for the 2012 Olympic Games. (Remember the French president's observations about the British contribution to cuisine and mad cow disease?) But sports enthusiasts from Westchester County lobbied hard for the 2007 Empire State Summer Games. 
 The county won the bid for the first time in the games' 30-year history, beating those sandy suburbs across the sound (Long Island) and a town so far upstate that people often mistake it for Canada (Plattsburgh). This summer's games will be in Rochester in July.
 Joseph A. Stout, the parks commissioner, sent a proposal to the state in 2004 outlining county plans for housing the 6,000 athletes, trainers and officials (in college dorms) and for staging the contests (in county parks and college facilities and on school fields). Hundreds of residents followed up with e-mail messages to the State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation asking that the games be held in Westchester. 
 ''I think 'deluge' is the word to describe it,'' said Wendy Gibson, spokeswoman for state Parks and Recreation. 
 The county had never before asked to play host to the games, which provide amateur athletes 12 to 70 years old with the chance to compete in everything from archery to volleyball. But there will most likely be economic benefits for the county, as well as the chance for local athletes to finally compete at the state level on their home turf.
 ''The state estimates that the week of games could generate $12 million to $16 million in economic activity,'' Mr. Stout said. ''And the games could bring 10,000 to 12,000 people besides the athletes to the county. That's a lot of hotel rooms, restaurant meals and shows. And, hopefully, a lot of them will go to Playland.'' 
 Unlike New York City when it was an Olympic hopeful, the county does not need to build a stadium for the Empire Games.


GRAPHIC: Photo: North Salem High School and Middle School have already used two of four snow days budgeted this year. (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); AUDITS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (73%); WEATHER (67%) 

PERSON: ken connelly; Debra West

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



159 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF: NASSAU; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: New Zone Offers Tax Breaks for Business

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN

 BODY:
New York State designated parts of Nassau County as an enterprise zone on Tuesday, making a variety of tax advantages available to eligible businesses that locate in the zone or that expand and create jobs there. 
 The zone, made up of disconnected parcels of land in six communities, is the county's first. Before Tuesday, Nassau was one of 12 of the state's 62 counties without any enterprise zones.
 ''This is big news,'' said Patrick Duggan, the deputy county executive for economic development. ''This is very exciting for us.''
 The state adopted a law in 1987 authorizing creation of the zones, called Empire Zones, in economically distressed communities, but Nassau did not apply for one until 2002. Suffolk has zones in the Towns of Riverhead, Islip and Brookhaven. 
 Mr. Duggan said Nassau's new zone encompasses 1,280 acres in Freeport, Elmont, the Village of Hempstead, Inwood, Bethpage and Glen Cove. The largest parcel, at 90 acres, is the former Grumman plant in Bethpage. Mr. Duggan said that the property had been a Superfund cleanup site but that remediation of the contamination there was almost complete. The Navy, which owns the land, is expected to transfer ownership to the county in the spring.
 The county's first choice for new tenants would be high-technology manufacturers, Mr. Duggan said, because that type of business would have ''limited impact on the environment.'' 
 Making the property part of an Empire Zone means that tenants can get 10-year tax abatements and a 40 percent discount on energy costs, which Mr. Duggan called ''a tremendous competitive advantage.'' STEWART AIN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); SUPERFUND (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (52%) 

PERSON: Patrick Duggan; Stewart Ain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Nassau County (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



160 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; L.I. @ WORK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: On the Island's Radio Dial, Local News Is a Fading Signal

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN

 BODY:
IN the hours after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the three Suffolk County radio stations owned by the Morey Organization began carrying the audio from WNBC-TV, Channel 4, in New York. When the August 2003 blackout occurred, the stations switched to the audio from News 12 Long Island, the cable TV channel. 
 The company's stations had to turn to other outlets for news coverage because none of them -- WLIR-FM in Hampton Bays, WBON-FM in Westhampton and WDRE-FM in Calverton -- have a news department.
The Morey stations are not alone. Only a few of the 19 commercial AM and FM stations on Long Island have their own news departments. Those that broadcast any news at all generally just take wire-service reports and read them on the air, as the Morey stations did before eliminating news entirely in a format change in September. 
 Only one station has a reporter working in the field: WALK-FM in Patchogue.
 Gina M. DeGregorio, a spokeswoman for the Morey Organization, said: ''We're trying to hit a younger demographic. Older listeners like WALK, which has a news department. We've always stayed music-focused, and if there was any talk, it was an interview with a band. News isn't something that our audience looked for. If they wanted news, they would turn to WINS.''
 Jaci Clement, the executive director of the Fair Media Council, a not-for-profit media-watch organization, and Gary Lewi, a senior vice president of Rubenstein Associates and a former radio reporter, said that news staffs were cut out at many stations after the deregulation of radio in 1996. 
 What followed on the Long Island dial reflected a national trend, Mr. Lewi said: ''a consolidation of radio station ownership and a massive reduction in community identity.''
 ''Much of public affairs programming and locally originated news used to be mandated,'' he said. ''When that was dropped, the industry went into a free fall, and it became an economic equation.''
 Beyond WALK and its lone reporter, David North, local radio news coverage is left to the Island's college stations, Ms. Clement said, ''but no college station blankets Long Island or has 24-hour news.'' 
 David Widmer is the president and general manager of the Long Island Radio Group; he said his stations (WHLI-AM and WKJY-FM in Hempstead, WBZO-FM in Bay Shore and WMJC-FM in Smithtown) have a news director, but no reporters on the street because of the expense. 
 ''There is a business model involved in this,'' he said. ''We are not news radio stations. Our first and foremost business is entertainment.''
 That is true for the Morey Organization, too, but John Caracciolo, its president, said the company was ''looking at putting in a permanent link between our facility and News 12.'' An engineer at the station could then switch quickly to carrying the cable channel's audio feed if needed. 
 Ms. Clement said that the Fair Media Council had begun an effort to match Long Island radio stations with television and newspaper reporters on the Island who could provide local news to the stations in the event of an emergency.
 ''Say we are expecting a hurricane, and we all needed to get off Long Island,'' she said. ''You need to have information to tell you what to do and when to leave, and the only way to get that is through the radio.''
 Ms. Clement said that the New York City stations would be too busy with city problems to provide extensive Long Island coverage.
 Bob Buchmann, who was vice president for programming at WBAB in Babylon during the 1980's and 1990's, said that when he left in 1999, ''they fired my street reporter, and news ended on Long Island except for WALK.''
 ''It's a real sin,'' said Mr. Buchmann, who is the program director of WAXQ-FM in New York City. ''It is a little bit sad that, aside from local news on WALK-FM, the only place to get comprehensive local news is either on TV or in print.''
 It comes down to format and finances, he said. ''Some stations would prefer the wall-to-wall music approach, and they are not necessarily wrong,'' Mr. Buchmann said, ''but it just seems there should be more than one street reporter on Long Island radio.''
 One station, WLNG-FM in Sag Harbor, does pride itself on covering its community. Its slogan is ''Live and truly local.'' 
 The station does more than 250 remote broadcasts a year and 14 local newscasts each weekday morning, filled with overnight developments, local police and fire reports, and even local obituaries, said Gary Sapiane, its vice president. On-air employees also interview local residents. 
 ''A car fire is a big story for us, because people hear the fire whistle and want to know where the fire is,'' he said. ''We have a live, in-studio color weather radar, so we can watch when a storm is coming and tell people it is approaching in the next 10 minutes.''
 WALK broadcasts news each morning, seven days a week, and it carries one-minute headline reports produced by Newsday at 12:55 p.m. and 5:55 p.m. each weekday. 
 Although there are no other regularly scheduled newscasts at WALK, Mr. North, the station's reporter, said that someone at Newsday will go on the air when a major news event breaks, and that he will go to the scene himself.
 A decade ago, WALK had newscasts regularly from 4 a.m. to 7 p.m., and had five employees in its news department, according to Rob Miller, the station's program director; now it has just two full-time news people, Mr. North and the news director, Donna Vaughan. 
 Mr. Miller said the cutbacks came after research showed that the Internet had become more important to people and that many offices had television sets and cable service. 
 ''We found that people wanted to know about breaking news, and not just a rehashing of the news from the morning,'' he said. When big things happen, he said, ''our on-air personalities can go on the air and relay the information.'' 
 But many of the Island's radio stations are automated and have no disc jockeys. On Sept. 15, the Morey Organization's three stations did away with on-air personalities in favor of a music-only format, except for weekends. Each hour is sponsored by a single advertiser, who gets four 20- to 30-second commercial breaks in the hour. 
 The new format is doing so well that the Morey Organization plans to sell it in other markets as an answer to satellite and Internet radio. Because there are no disc jockeys to pay and fewer commercials to produce, Mr. Caracciolo said, the company's expenses are reduced and the ''net cash is higher.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Other than college radio stations, the only Long Island station with a reporter working the field is WALK-FM. The station's man with the mike, David North, interviews subjects at a Long Island Power Authority news conference: KeySpan Chairman Robert B. Catell, at right, and Gordian Raacke, executive director of Renewable Energy Long Island. (Photographs by John Dunn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); TERRORISM (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TRENDS (68%); YOUTH MARKET (66%); RADIO FORMATS (57%) 

ORGANIZATION: Walk-Fm (East Patchogue, NY); morey organization; Fair Media Council

PERSON: ROBERT B CATELL (50%) gina m degregorio; Jaci Clement; Stewart Ain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Long Island (NY); Suffolk County (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



161 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Building Empire Zones

 BODY:
Before the first bill or even the first official speech in this year's legislative session in Albany, the three men who run New York's state government called for the cameras. Once the lights were on full, and the microphone canted in their general direction, Gov. George Pataki; the Senate majority leader, Joseph Bruno; and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, announced the creation of three new Empire Zones around the state. One would be in Nassau County, one in Livingston County and one in Chinatown. 
 If they beamed like rich patrons handing out post-holiday goodies, that is because that was just what they were doing: doling out one of the best tax breaks that New York State has to offer.
Which raises this question: Will these new zones create jobs, or will they do little more than reward political cronies, as too many of them have done in the past? 
 Empire Zones were created 20 years ago to stimulate long-term economic growth in distressed communities. It was and is an excellent idea, if it works the way it was intended to work. But two years ago, in a random sampling of Empire Zones across the state, Comptroller Alan Hevesi and his auditors reported a series of failures in the oversight and operation of these zones. 
 One notable example was a real estate company in Syracuse that created one job at an annual salary of $26,000 but claimed a tax credit of more than $250,000. Another was a Rochester company that added one $10,000-a-year position and got a tax credit of $137,000. As Mr. Hevesi noted: ''Giving companies tax breaks is giving away real money.'' 
 Although the comptroller has said he intends to continue checking on how the 75 zones operate, it is not clear, really, whether the Empire Zone program has improved since his audit. Only one important thing has really changed: the way that these zones are handed out across the state.
 Previously the governor's appointees controlled the awards. Now the governor and the two legislative leaders decide among themselves who gets these valuable tax breaks, which is why each man had a reason to smile for the cameras last week. Mr. Silver was especially relieved that his own district finally earned its bonus. Chinatown and the Lower East Side of Manhattan lost over 50,000 jobs after Sept. 11, 2001, but Mr. Silver noted sourly that it took four years for his district to get the help it deserved.
 Maybe it is better for three politicians to control who gets these rewards, instead of just one. But the bottom line should always be not who has the clout to distribute these useful benefits, but which blighted areas can best use them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); AUDITS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%) 

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Joseph L (Sen) Bruno; Sheldon (Speaker) Silver

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; Nassau County (NY); Livingston County (NY); Chinatown (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



162 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Virgin Atlantic Offices Are Moving to Stamford

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
Virgin Atlantic Airways announced on Tuesday that it would move its United States headquarters from Norwalk to Stamford this fall. 
 Brooke Lawer, a spokeswoman for the company, said it would relocate to a restored building at 650 Atlantic Street because there was too much ''unusable space'' in the building it owns in Norwalk.
She said the Stamford offices will be 15,200 square feet, while the Norwalk office was around 44,000 square feet. She said the company needed less space.
 ''The new building will give us the opportunity to have the whole team together in one area,'' she said. The company said it also preferred the new location because it was closer to the train and New York City.
 Michael W. Freimuth, the director of economic development for Stamford, said that Virgin Atlantic would bring 75 jobs to the city and that it would receive a tax break because it was moving to an enterprise zone.
 ''We are about to see significant redevelopment in the south end of Stamford,'' he said. 
 Richard A. Mocchia, Norwalk's mayor, expressed disappointment that the company was leaving.
 ''The restaurants and other support-type businesses will lose from not having the employees in that area,'' he said. ''Hopefully, we'll get somebody interested in moving into the building.''
 Virgin signed a 15-year lease for the new space. JEFF HOLTZ

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELOCATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); RESTAURANTS (69%) 

COMPANY: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (97%)

ORGANIZATION: Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (97%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (97%)

PERSON: Jeff Holtz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Norwalk (Conn); Stamford (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



163 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut's Surplus Totals $328 Million

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
The State Comptroller's Office said on Tuesday that it expected a surplus of $327.8 million when the current fiscal year ends in June. Connecticut's budget totals about $15 billion. 
 The announcement said the surplus had grown by a projected $21.4 million in December alone, mostly from the collection of income taxes on profits made by residents in the financial markets.
It also said since the fiscal year began in July, income taxes had brought in about $214 million more than expected.
 Nancy Wyman, the state comptroller, warned that higher energy prices and higher interest rates could cut into the surplus.
 ''While the moderate growth is encouraging, I believe state government should make a commitment to save the surplus in a rainy-day fund,'' she said in a statement.
 Gov. M. Jodi Rell agreed. ''The steadily rising surplus is no guarantee that the economic uptick will continue,'' she said in a statement. ''That is why we will deposit these surplus dollars in the state's saving account.''
 State Representative James Amann, speaker of the House, suggested that the surplus be used to replenish state pension funds or pay off some of the state's long-term debt.
 ''What is best fiscally and long term for the taxpayers is what we should be looking at,'' he said. ''We should consider any way we can save a buck and reduce costs for the state.'' JEFF HOLTZ

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (51%) 

PERSON: M JODI RELL (57%) Nancy S (Comptroller) Wyman; Jeff Holtz

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



164 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Abandoned Mills: A Paradox of Opportunity and Danger

BYLINE: By JANE GORDON

 BODY:
THE phrase ''faded mill town'' defines any number of places in Connecticut. At the core of those towns often lies a sprawling former mill complex that made objects including woolens, wire for fencing, buttons or brass. Some have been turned into shopping centers, housing and lofts for artists.
 Others are still abandoned and reeking of chemicals that have seeped into the floorboards or, in some cases, are stored in drums. Many mills are environmental disasters and others have burned down over the years, some in major fires. Liz Swenson, the economic development director in Plainfield, was attending a meeting last April at town hall when a blaze broke out at the abandoned InterRoyal mill next door. Flames rose into the air at the five-acre site as town employees watched. 
The Environmental Protection Agency had already been monitoring the contents of the mill, which made office and hospital furniture until 1985, when it was closed due to bankruptcy. The agency had removed 680 drums filled with cyanides, flammable substances and PCB-contaminated oils, but asbestos, lead and other dangerous substances were ablaze that day at the mill. The fire burned for hours as nearby residents were evacuated. 
 ''When it started, we all walked out and looked at the fire,'' Ms. Swenson said. ''People asked, 'Why is a fire starting after all this time?' And there are so many beautiful features to the mills. It's a shame to have them burn.''
 The E.P.A. has spent more than $2 million cleaning up the site, and there are still no plans for it once the cleanup is complete. But the fire drew the attention of Gov. M. Jodi Rell, who decided in September to inventory all the abandoned mills in the state. 
 That inventory identified 77 of them, said Wayne E. Sandford, deputy commissioner of the Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security. .
 The information is being used by the State Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security and the State Department of Environmental Protection to study what could happen in a fire, including which way smoke might blow and where residents would need to be evacuated.
 ''A lot of these mills are dangerous to walk around in,'' said Steven R. Novick, chief of the Emergency Response and Removal Section for the E.P.A. Region 1, which covers New England. ''You can't just bring in a crew and easily take care of asbestos that might be in the building. And you've got a lot of asbestos potentially available. So when these mills burn, the asbestos scatters over a wide area.''
 Mills, like any other piece of real estate, benefit or suffer from location. Like many areas where land was swallowed by huge mill complexes, northeast Connecticut saw several abandoned mills burn in the past several years. They often sit abandoned because developers hesitate to take on the costs of environmental cleanup. Yet in Fairfield County and shoreline towns, where real estate prices are higher and land is harder to come by, abandoned mills have indeed attracted developers. 
 Redding has won an award from the E.P.A. in its Smart Growth category for a public-private partnership that is developing the former Gilbert & Bennett Wire Mill site into a mixed-use urban center. The mill, which used heavy metals to create wire fencing, was abandoned in 1989, and $992,000 worth of back taxes had piled up. The town sold the tax lien to a developer known for working with environmentally troubled sites. 
 ''The mill is huge,'' said Natalie Ketcham, the town's first selectwoman. ''And that's why, from a commercial tax base, we were really suffering with the abandonment of the mill for more than 15 years.''
 The state may think it knows the locations of all its abandoned mills, but few are as versed in their intricacies as is Bob Granato of Stonington, a veritable encyclopedia of New England mill sites. In his spare time, Mr. Granato visits the abandoned sites. He is writing a book of poetry about old mills, titled ''Monuments to Misery.''
 ''Drive around New England, what do you see?'' said Mr. Granato, former chairman of the Stonington Planning and Zoning Commission. ''Vacant mills. They reflect upon an era gone by, and in the small New England towns where they folded, they left misery behind. Many New England communities, including several here in Connecticut, are just recuperating from the losses.''
 Mr. Granato has been active in promoting Stonington's abandoned mills to developers.
 ''Other industries have come in,'' he said. ''But the problem is the mills were so huge that no one industry could utilize the whole blooming thing. So they subdivide them. You see dance studios, antique shops, indoor flea markets, strange uses.
 ''Start along the Quinebaug River in Thompson, move southwest and watch how each community takes a different approach to its mills. And you see what happens to the value in terms of taxation for a town. That's why I'm calling the book 'Monuments to Misery.' '' 
 But at least in Stonington, the mills are being offered new lives. The former Monsanto mill, a 100-year-old structure that also had a large fire, is being renovated into luxury condominiums, housing and commercial space. The Thread Mill in the Pawcatuck section of town has attracted the attention of a New York developer, who wants to put condominiums and retail space in the building. 
 For Mr. Novick of the E.P.A., saving old mills depends on partnerships.
 ''With InterRoyal, the city was motivated, the state was cooperative and we were able to bring federal dollars in to try to bring it to the point where it's attractive for a developer to come in and revitalize the area,'' he said. ''That's the ultimate goal -- reuse of these areas of these buildings, if you can get them before they burn down.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Liz Swenson, above, the economic development director in Plainfield, watched the fire, right, that destroyed the InterRoyal mill in April 2005. Top, the five-acre site, where office and hospital furniture had been built until 1985, as it stands now. (Photographs by C. M. Glover for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Tim Cook/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ASBESTOS (87%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (76%); CYANIDES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); RETAILERS (57%) 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (58%) Jane Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



165 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: The French Disconnection

BYLINE: By Corinne Maier. 
Corinne Maier is the author of ''Bonjour, Laziness: Jumping Off the Corporate Ladder.'' This article was translated by The Times from the French.

DATELINE: Paris 

 BODY:
''WHAT'S going on over there?'' my foreign friends have been asking me, concerned about the news coming from France. A justified worry: our impoverished suburbs, or banlieues, were the scene, starting on Oct. 27 and stretching into November, of an urban agitation that turned to a riot. There were thousands of burned cars, public buildings looted, confrontations with the police, a state of emergency that ended only on Wednesday. Paris and then the provinces were affected; we hadn't seen anything like these disturbances since the famous uprising of May 1968. What has happened to the picture-postcard Paris that was the setting for ''Amelie''? 
 The experience has put all of France into a funk, even with the lifting of the state of emergency after New Year's passed relatively peacefully (cars were set afire, but not substantially more than in previous years). In truth, though, people, who -- like me -- live in the center of Paris, didn't really see that much; they watched the spectacle of the disorder on television. They discovered places they ordinarily wouldn't even be able to find on a map: ghettoes where France has relegated immigrants and their descendants, gloomy blocks that resemble bombed-out sections of Chechnya. They learned that high unemployment (close to 40 percent in some places), racism, drugs, disastrous urban policy and police brutality were making everything worse.
 But no one has been truly astonished by the violence. ''It was bound to happen,'' as my local bookseller, who lives in the suburbs, says. What surprised -- and relieved -- Parisians was that Paris proper was mostly spared: the Eiffel Tower is still there, the Arc de Triomphe hasn't budged, thank goodness. 
 The reality is that Paris and its ''difficult'' banlieues are two worlds that are completely foreign to each other. They don't even speak the same language: polished, accent-free French on one side, the verlan, or ''reversed'' speech, of the housing projects on the other. The suburbs are on fire? So? The Left Bank intellectuals didn't have much to do with these rioters without demands and without leaders.
 Away from the banlieues, everything stayed calm, in contrast with the image of France portrayed in the foreign news media. ''Paris Is Burning!'' was a common headline; a major German newspaper predicted that the intifada was imminent. The Americans and the British covered the violence with as much avidity as some of them had denounced the French decision not to fight in Iraq; was France, they asked with glee, going to be forced to wage its own battle with Islam? We French expected a little more empathy considering the 1992 Los Angeles riots, when the authorities responded in force, and the city experienced curfews, 8,000 arrests, and scores of deaths.
 In France, the death toll was almost nonexistent, perhaps because, as the saying goes, ''Here, everything ends with songs'' -- that is, it all works out in the end. Still, an arsenal of repression was put in place. It has a rather unpleasant name, the state of emergency, established by a 1955 law that sought to restore order in French-controlled Algeria, racked by violence in the years before it won independence.
 This legal parenthesis brought searches without warrants, curfews, restrictions on comings and goings. All in all, though, the authorities were prudent in the use of these extraordinary powers, even in the banlieues; to say that France suffered under the yoke of oppression during the state of emergency would be an exaggeration, and the French, fatalists for the most part, protested little.
 Nonetheless, those few weeks of violence left us bitter. The riots were undoubtedly a reflection of French failure. Failure of the politicians, yes: Jacques Chirac, president since 1995, has been unable to reform society. But also failure of the ''French model,'' which asserts that all inequalities, all differences, can be resolved in that shopworn religion called the Republic. Today all France, even the middle classes, suffers from a feeling that things won't get better, from an inability to make plans for the future. It's the big topic at dinner parties.
 Fortunately, in Paris there is always something to do when one is feeling blue. Everyone in town has been talking about an exhibition at the Grand Palais consecrated to melancholy. Whether called melancholy, or ennui, depression or ''spleen,'' this sensation was wonderfully defined by Victor Hugo as ''the enjoyment of being sad.'' Welcome to Paris, city of melancholy. You have until Jan. 16 to visit the exhibition. Otherwise, you'll have to go to, well, the suburbs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RIOTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); SUBURBS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); REFUGEES (67%); RACE & RACISM (65%); RELIGION (50%); BOOKSTORES (50%) Demonstrations and Riots; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Corinne Maier

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (95%) FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%) France; Paris (France)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



166 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: All Parts of City In Rebuild Plan Of New Orleans 

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
The city's official blueprint for redevelopment after Hurricane Katrina, to be released on Wednesday, will recommend that residents be allowed to return and rebuild anywhere they like, no matter how damaged or vulnerable the neighborhood, according to several members of the mayor's rebuilding commission.
 The proposal appears to put the city's rebuilding panel on a collision course with its state counterpart, which will control at least some of the flow of federal rebuilding money to the city.
The primary author of the plan, Joseph C. Canizaro, said teams of outside experts would try to help residents of each neighborhood decide whether to rebuild or relocate. Those teams would help increase the odds of success for those residents who decided to return, Mr. Canizaro said.
 The commission will propose that the city should discourage homeowners from rebuilding in the hardest hit areas until a plan can be hammered out, but will not forbid them from doing so. 
 But ultimately, the areas that fail to attract a critical mass of residents in 12 months will probably not survive as residential neighborhoods, Mr. Canizaro said, and are likely to end up as marshland as the city's population declines and its footprint shrinks. 
 People who rebuild in those areas will be forced to leave, according to the proposal. Though such a requirement would be emotionally wrenching, the commission will propose a buyout program to compensate those people at the market price before Hurricane Katrina, but it is not clear whether there will be federal financing for such a program.
 Assuming the commission's recommendations are formally adopted by Mayor C. Ray Nagin, the plan will defer for a year one of the most contentious issues in the city's struggle to recover from the flooding that followed the hurricane: the fate of the most heavily damaged and flood-prone neighborhoods. 
 Many residents of low-lying neighborhoods like the Lower Ninth Ward and New Orleans East have said they are determined to rebuild their ravaged blocks, while some experts have argued that such areas are better returned to marshland for safety and economic reasons. Some civic leaders who had hoped the mayor's panel, the 17-member Bring Back New Orleans Commission, would take a firm stand on the issue expressed disappointment.
 ''There are some very tough decisions that have to be made here, and no one relishes making them,'' said Janet R. Howard, chief executive of the Bureau of Governmental Research, a nonprofit policy organization based in New Orleans. ''But to say that people should invest their money and invest their energies and put all their hope into rebuilding and then in a year we'll re-evaluate, that's no plan at all.''
 At least one member of the state panel, the Louisiana Recovery Authority, has echoed that sentiment. 
 ''Someone has to be tough, to stand up and to tell the truth,'' Sean Reilly, a member of the state commission, said in a speech this week. ''Every neighborhood in New Orleans will not be able to come back safe.''
 Andy Kopplin, executive director of the state commission, declined to comment on the specifics of the city's report, which ''hasn't been formally presented to us.'' 
 But he said his agency, when doling out federal dollars, would favor plans that emphasized safety and the wise use of precious resources.
 ''We want to make sure they invest in a smart way that provides a good return on investment,'' Mr. Kopplin said, adding that at the same time plans should be ''true to the aspirations of local communities.'' 
 Mr. Canizaro, a prominent real estate developer here, acknowledged the possibility that Hurricane Katrina could spell the death of more than one New Orleans neighborhood. He cited a study by the Rand Corporation that estimated that in three years the city would have a population of no more than 275,000, down more than 40 percent from its pre-hurricane population of 465,000. 
 ''It doesn't take a genius to figure if you're only going to have 40 or 50 percent of your original population, then there's going to be shrinking in the amount of land that's going to be needed,'' Mr. Canizaro said.
 Yet deciding which neighborhoods should not be rebuilt involves far more than the cold rationale of geographic and demographic data, Mr. Canizaro said, especially considering the historic racial tensions in New Orleans. The hurricane devastated the lives of white and black alike, but the waters that roared though much of the city disproportionately flooded its predominantly black eastern half.
 ''Unfortunately, a lot of poor African-Americans had everything they own destroyed here,'' Mr. Canizaro said. ''So we have to be careful about dictating what's going to happen, especially me as a white man. What's important is we give people an opportunity to determine their future, as best we can.'' 
 It is not clear, though, that people who choose to return to devastated neighborhoods will find much to surround them. The city has not promised full services to every neighborhood, and there may be no grocery stores or schools for miles. 
 It is not even certain that lenders will agree to grant mortgages in those neighborhoods without some guarantees that residents will be there for longer than a year.
 The final report, as described by several commissioners, will include several ideas designed to stimulate the city's economy and culture, including a proposal to construct a light rail system and a plan to establish New Orleans as a world center of neuroscience research. 
 The commission will also recommend that the city create a redevelopment authority to serve as a land bank for blighted or abandoned properties and a vehicle through which federal funds will flow. 
 By creating an independent authority appointed by elected officials in all levels of government, several commissioners said, the hope is to insulate the redevelopment process from politics. 
 The most contentious issue, however, will be the redevelopment of neighborhoods. That battle began in earnest in November, when the Urban Land Institute, a prominent planning group based in Washington, proposed that the city temporarily ban redevelopment of properties in those areas hardest hit by flooding, including large tracts of New Orleans East, the Lower Ninth Ward and Lakeview. 
 The suggestion was rejected by residents of those neighborhoods and their political representatives. Last month, the City Council passed a nonbinding resolution stating that residents should be free to rebuild immediately wherever they choose. 
 The notion that residents have a right to rebuild anywhere proved too starry-eyed for Alden J. McDonald Jr., a member of the mayor's commission and the chief executive of Liberty Bank and Trust, the city's largest black-owned bank. Though most of the bank's customers lived in the most damaged parts of town, and though Mr. McDonald himself owns a home in New Orleans East, he said it would be cruel to encourage people to move back ''without first giving them all the facts.'' 
 ''We really need to ask what kind of community it will be if there aren't adequate services,'' he said. 
 Mr. Canizaro, who as chairman of the commission's planning committee has found himself at the center of this debate, floated a compromise proposal at a commission meeting in mid-December: let people rebuild anywhere they want, then re-evaluate progress in three years. That way the market, and not planners, would determine which neighborhoods would come back. 
 The general sentiment, however, was that three years was too long, so Mr. Canizaro countered by shrinking the evaluation period to a year. 
 Critics of his plan say that if the city floods again in the near future, damaging rebuilt neighborhoods in the same places, there will be little sympathy and few federal dollars. But Mr. Canizaro said the prospect of a fortified flood control system, promised by the Bush administration, made him confident that the city would not suffer the same devastation from a storm similar to Hurricane Katrina.
 That confidence, however, is not universal. Michael M. Liffmann, the associate executive director of the Louisiana Sea Grant College at Louisiana State University, which studies land-use issues along the Gulf Coast, said most experts agreed that the roughly one-quarter to one-third of the city located dangerously below sea level should not be rebuilt.
 ''There are parts of New Orleans that are not fit for human habitation,'' Mr. Liffmann said. ''They never were and never will be. But these are as much social calls as they are scientific ones.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor C. Ray Nagin of New Orleans listened at a City Council meeting on Friday. His commission's rebuilding plan is at odds with the state's.
 Debris still litters the Lower Ninth Ward in New Orleans. Some experts have said such low-lying neighborhoods should be returned to marshland. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (91%); HURRICANES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); FLOOD ZONES (78%); WEATHER (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (60%) HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE KATRINA; FLOODS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL

PERSON: GARY RIVLIN

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW ORLEANS (LA); LOUISIANA

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



167 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Our Towns; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: How We Took the Child Out of Childhood

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: SCARSDALE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
DANNY BERNSTEIN and Robin Winter don't know each other. They both live in pricey Westchester suburbs (he's in Scarsdale, she's in Chappaqua), but their concerns aren't necessarily similar.
 He is passionate about youth sports and has just started a company, Backyard Sports, that's dedicated to making the games kids play just fun for kids, rather than an achievement arms race for parents. She would just like to make it easier for her seventh grader to ride his bicycle to school, something almost no suburban child gets to do anymore. But she can't seem to get anyone in a position of influence in her town interested in even trying to tap a new government program that provides money to make it safer for children to go to school on their own.
We'll pass over the slightly incongruous premise in both cases. Kids need parents to organize sports events in a way that will let kids be kids? And it takes a government program for kids to be able to safely ride bicycles or walk to school on their own? (The answers are maybe and probably.) 
 But both Mr. Bernstein and Ms. Winter, in their own ways, are on to one of the great mysteries of suburban life in America. How did we get to the point where few kids ever get to play with friends outside of a play date, to walk to a neighbor's house without parental escort or to have free, unsupervised time in which they're not tethered to a television set, computer or Xbox? How is it that Mr. Bernstein's friends in their 40's go out to play soccer every Saturday but their children wouldn't know how to organize a game on their own without parents around? 
 How come long, long ago I got to play football in the street every day after school with Sammy Brett and Howie Kavaler and the rest of the neighborhood kids on Long Island, or to ride my bike as far out along the service road of the Long Island Expressway as I cared to, but children now live in permanent lockdown, their every moment planned, organized, monitored and measured? How did this happen?
 One person who thinks he knows is Steven Mintz, a history professor at the University of Houston and the author of ''Huck's Raft: A History of American Childhood,'' who has watched as a new model of childhood -- one of a long succession of new models, it must be added -- has taken hold over the past three decades or so.
 He starts with three big changes.
 First is an explosion in parental anxiety over child abductions, sexual abuse and crime, a panic almost entirely due to saturation news media coverage and not, he says, to any glaring increase in whatever dangers lurk beyond your crabgrass. Once, the child abduction in California was a local story in California. Now, it's constant fodder for national cable news stations.
 Second is the parental panic over the transmission of class status, in which grades, achievement and, of course, getting into the right college (never too early to start worrying!) are seen as part of a Darwinian struggle for economic success and social esteem. So Kumon math, si; foraging for frogs, no.
 Third is guilt. Parents, often two parents, are working so hard and such long hours that they figure they owe their kids a designer childhood every bit as up-to-date as that plasma TV in the living room. And since their model of life is being busy all the time, no sense having the kids just hanging out doing nothing.
 Worry, competition, guilt -- what a combination. ''We're all Jewish mothers now, but my mother was never as invested in the way I am with my kids,'' Dr. Mintz said.
 You can go on from there. There's technology, which has made being alone in your room the most interesting place in the universe, just as long as the computer is on. There's the living large syndrome, in which ever bigger houses mean less proximity to neighbors. And with smaller families, chances are there aren't many kids down the road anyway. Throw in, for good measure, fear of being sued over almost anything.
 As Dr. Mintz notes in his book, our notion of childhood changes all the time, and often it's been a pretty grim one -- in the Puritan era, children as imperfect adults in need of moral uplift; or for much of the 19th century, children as fodder for sweatshops and mines.
 That said, who could have imagined that today's suburbs, with children their prime reason for being, would end up excising the one thing kids always had before: a sense of freedom, room to explore, time to wander around to see what you could find? Who could have imagined today's fortresslike homes and grand green lawns as quiet as an empty church?
 This can't really be what we had in mind. Which brings us back to Mr. Bernstein and Ms. Winter, who in their small ways seem to be looking for ways to tip things back a bit, in getting parents to back off from their kids' games, in finding a way to give children the freedom to be children. Maybe good ideas, maybe bad ones. But surely there's a way out of this. If you have thoughts, please pass them along.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robin Winter and her 12-year-old son, Jacob Tinkhauser, on Friday at their home in Chappaqua, N.Y. She wants to make it easier for him to ride his bike to school. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); SUBURBS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); YOUTH SPORTS (77%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SOCCER (71%); HISTORY (60%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); TRENDS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Children and Youth ; Families and Family Life; Suburbs ; Social Conditions and Trends; Life Styles

PERSON: Peter Applebome

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



168 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2061 words

HEADLINE: The Greening of America's Campuses

BYLINE: By Timothy Egan. 
Timothy Egan writes frequently about the environment for The Times.

 BODY:
THE largest university in Oregon is camouflaged, its many parts spread among the tight urban canyons of downtown Portland. But one building at Portland State University stands out. It has a roof of grass, plants and gravel, like a slice of the high desert on the wet side of Oregon. It is 10 stories high, and inside, all the mechanical organs work with so little waste -- pumping water, air and electricity to the 400 residents of the dormitory and, on lower floors, to classrooms -- that it would impress even the thrifty New Englanders who founded Portland. 
 If it is true, as Winston Churchill said, that ''we shape our dwellings, and afterwards our dwellings shape us,'' then Portland State's new residence hall, the Broadway, may be more than environmentally virtuous. Open barely a year, it is attracting students who say they want their campus home to be a living laboratory, even if that means low-flow showers are part of a 24-hour classroom. ''This building is really cool, and everybody likes being a part of it,'' says Micaiah Fifer, a junior who lives in the Broadway. ''I appreciate the fact that this school is trying to be environmentally friendly. It's a reason to like the school.'' 
The low water pressure, he admits, ''gets to be a little annoying.'' Still, students are lining up to take on such challenges. More than a hundred students at the University of South Carolina, Columbia, were on the waiting list last fall for what is being promoted as the world's largest green dorm. Students had to write an essay stating why they wanted to live in the building, which opened in fall 2004.
 Colleges have long marketed their campus amenities, their rosters of scholars, their selectivity and study-abroad programs. To that list, add one more thing: their green credentials. 
 From Berea College in Kentucky, where students designed a house that produces its own electricity, to Middlebury in Vermont, where local forests supply wood for construction, the greening of higher education is everywhere, showing signs of outlasting earlier, faddish fits and starts. Nationwide, more than 110 colleges have built or are building structures certified by the United States Green Building Council, a nonprofit group that promotes construction and designs that meet high standards of energy efficiency. 
 But it's one thing to put up a trophy of recycled glass and brick that relies on the sun, the wind or other renewable resources for power. It's another to build a curriculum -- and to get students to look at the world differently -- with green buildings as a centerpiece. 
 In Pittsburgh, students at Carnegie Mellon study the weave of grass, dirt and bugs atop its new ''living roof'' at Hamerschlag Hall. In class projects they study how the building design can reduce storm water drainage and improve water quality. Yavapai College in Arizona and Harvey Mudd College in California have built classes around new ways to use the earth's resources, with campus designs as the prime exhibits.
 The students, professors and designers behind this movement say they are part of a broad push for sustainability, which has become a buzzword for new schools of thought in architecture, interior design, urban planning, culinary arts and other fields. At its simplest, sustainability means taking as little as possible from resources that cannot be renewed. A movement without real leaders, it seems to have the greatest resonance on college campuses, always a home for new thinking. Student groups and sessions dedicated to sustainability are flourishing. While some produce little but conversational -- and political -- gas, others are preaching practical solutions. At Drury University in Missouri, a campus conference on using natural resources ended with a posting of ''10 simple ways to support sustainable living in the Ozarks.'' Among the suggestions: shop at local food producers. 
 At last year's annual conference of the Society for College and University Planning, green buildings and ideas on how to spread eco-friendly practices dominated many discussions. With studies showing that students perform better in buildings with better (natural) light and cleaner circulating air, universities are taking their campuses out of the dark ages. 
 ''What university leaders are telling us is that they now see this as an opportunity for recruitment,'' says Rick Fedrizzi, president of the green building council. ''It signals to the potential student that this is an organization that gets it.''
 Because living lighter can save money, administrators say, they can -- as the old line about prosperous missionaries has it -- do well while trying to do good. With energy prices at record highs, and many economists predicting the end of the oil age within a generation's time, the college sustainability movement could play a big role outside the academic bubble. For example, by using lots of windows, mirrors and a big bank of photovoltaic cells, which convert sunlight to electricity, the University of South Carolina has reduced heating costs in its new residence hall by 20 percent and electricity costs by 40 percent, compared with a similarly sized dorm. The system is the largest on the East Coast, university officials say, and shows that even a large apartment building can use a clean, renewable source of energy at relatively low cost. 
 ''The sustainability movement is no longer a niche thing at most colleges,'' says Peggy F. Barlett, an anthropology professor at Emory University in Atlanta, who edited, with Geoffrey W. Chase, a book of essays on the subject. ''There's going to be a real cultural transformation in the coming years in this area.'' 
 Ms. Barlett was behind the Piedmont Project, an effort to bring green sensibility to all parts of Emory. It started slowly, six years ago, but has lately taken off because of high energy costs and the desire of students and teachers to turn their ideas into practicality. Atlanta's environmental problems -- stagnant air and poor water quality, sprawl, horrendous traffic jams -- also prompted many on campus to take another look at their relationship with the natural world, she says.
 The Piedmont Project involves little things (a literary class on eco-criticism, a student project on maintaining golf courses using minimal amounts of water and chemicals) and big things (two new green-certified buildings that are under construction).
 The project was inspired by the pioneering Northern Arizona University, in the high pine-forested reach of Flagstaff. With its proximity to some of the world's most stunning scenery, Flagstaff, which attracts lovers of outdoor sports, has consistently been rated among the nation's most livable medium-size cities. The university has tried to match the setting. 
 ''Kids who spend a lot of their time in national parks and outside are going to want to live in a campus that reflects their values,'' says Gary Paul Nabhan, director of the university's Center for Sustainable Environments. ''A huge portion of our student body is motivated to be engaged in environmental issues.'' 
 Conferences, classrooms and buildings try to reflect this ethic. Administrators have declared that every new building must meet some degree of green construction and design standards, meaning that they use a high percentage of recycled building materials and incorporate low-energy-using lighting and electrical systems. Solar panels are abundant, making use of the sun at Flagstaff's altitude of 7,000 feet. 
 Even the janitors and land maintenance crews have been brought aboard. ''Rather than a bunch of academics and student activists trying to ram some ideas down people's throats,'' says Dr. Nabhan, who is also a professor of environmental science, ''we let the people who work on campus come up with ideas about how to use less, and we listen to them.'' 
 IT was not so long ago when what fell from the sky in Pittsburgh caused people to rush indoors or cough. Soot and ash from the mills that gave the city its nickname, Steeltown, U.S.A., could block the sun and discolor clothes. But in the nearly two decades since the mills were shuttered, Pittsburgh has remade itself, with one of the city's best-known universities, Carnegie Mellon, in the forefront. 
 The living roof of Hamerschlag Hall sprouted four years ago from a ''why not?'' idea of three students who were members of the campus Sustainable Earth Club. With an undergraduate research grant, the students studied other green roofs and drew up a general plan; students of architecture and engineering in an advanced sculpture studio class designed it last spring. 
 The roof, which cost $172,000, is a showpiece, with its grasses, perennials and a log drilled with holes to encourage insects to settle in. Instruments were installed to measure water runoff, water quality, and heat loss and retention in the building, with monitors installed on a traditional roof nearby so data could be compared. 
 Elsewhere on campus, the energy-saving gadgets and systems of New House -- the first green dormitory to open in the country, according to Carnegie Mellon officials -- have also become teaching tools. Now in its third year, the five-story, 260-bed residence uses 30 percent less energy than a typical building of the same size, and it came in under budget. A kiosk shows the daily energy use and compares it with previous days, making students aware of their daily impact on the resources needed to house them. Carpets are made of recycled fiber and the doors were certified by sustainable forestry groups. Campus environmental groups use New House as a home. 
 ''This is very much a living laboratory,'' says Tim Michael, director of housing and dining services at Carnegie Mellon. ''The building is constantly being studied by students, architects and engineers.'' He says Carnegie Mellon is moving toward applying the same stringent green-building standards to all its major new construction. 
 Beyond the well-insulated walls of New House, Carnegie Mellon has been trying to integrate sustainable theory in many aspects of campus life and curriculum. Teachers at the new Center for Sustainable Engineering, in collaboration with like-minded colleagues at the University of Texas and Arizona State University, want to revolutionize teaching at the nation's 1,500 engineering programs. Supported by a $1.7 million grant from the National Science Foundation, the center holds workshops and develops educational materials meant to get students to think about energy efficiency and recycled material. 
 ''The whole purpose of this is to take some of the ideas of sustainability out of the fringes and put them into the mainstream,'' says Cliff Davidson, a professor in civil and environmental engineering and a co-founder of the center. 
 IT helps to have a shiny new example of what all the fuss is about. That is the case with the University of South Carolina's new residence hall, West Quad, which has been certified by the environment-friendly building council. About 500 students live in the complex of three four-story buildings, which includes a learning center where classes on the environment are taught. 
 There is a perception that a green dorm is going to force a monastic life on students, but West Quad residents insist they are not uncomfortable. No cold showers or dimly lighted study halls, they say. 
 ''The thing I notice most is the air quality,'' says Lindsey Cooper, a graduate student who lives at West Quad. ''They are constantly filtering in new air. And the lighting is so reliant on natural lights that I don't even feel like I use electric lights very much.'' 
 West Quad has become the iPod of buildings. ''It's clearly the most popular hall on campus,'' says Gene Luna, a university vice president. Plans are under way to build a green fraternity house. 
 As at Carnegie Mellon, the building is a learning opportunity. Biology majors have experimented with different plants, trying to create an attractive landscape that uses a minimal amount of water. Engineering students monitor the energy output provided by simple daylight to heat all those hot showers. 
 ''This building has just exceeded our expectations in every way,'' Dr. Luna says. ''You can't traverse across the West Quad complex without learning something.''

 Julie Keefe for The New York Times
 )(pg. 22)

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photo by Jeff Swensen for The New York Times)(pg. 20)
FROM CORN, MICROFIBERS -- Students at Carnegie Mellon were asked by Matt Cline and Gary Powers, above right, to transform a bag of corn into a usable microfiber. Carnegie Mellon is pushing sustainability into the mainstream, says Cliff Davidson, opposite page, teaching on the ''living roof'' of Hamerschlag Hall. Left, solar tubes preheat water at a University of South Carolina dorm. (Photo by Jeff Swensen for The New York Times)
(Photo by Travis Bell for The New York Times)
Natural resources Oversize windows lighten Emory University, where a green sensibility is growing. (Photo by Tami Chappell for The New York Times)(pg. 21)
 Lab for living The Broadway, at Portland State University, is energy-efficient -- low-flow showers and all. (Photo by 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GREEN BUILDING (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); GREEN MARKET (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (73%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (63%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Colleges and Universities; Conservation of Resources; Recycling of Waste Materials; Energy Efficiency; Special Sections; Advertising and Marketing

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (59%)

PERSON: Timothy Egan

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006



169 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; BOOKS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Climbing Up, and Losing Ground

BYLINE: By David Leonhardt. 
David Leonhardt writes about economics for The Times.

 BODY:

Strapped: Why America's 20- and 30-Somethings Can't Get Ahead
By Tamara Draut
Doubleday; hardcover

Aiding Students, Buying Students: Financial Aid in America
By Rupert Wilkinson
Vanderbilt University Press; hardcover
 WHEN Ann Radcliffe, a London widow, gave Harvard College one of its first big gifts in 1643, she specified that it be used to pay the tuition of a ''poor scholer.'' The first recipient of the scholarship was Joseph Weld, the son of the Harvard trustee who had solicited the gift. 
 Three hundred-odd years later, the American system of financial aid found itself on firmer footing, thanks largely to the G.I. Bill of 1944. It gave returning soldiers $500 a year to pay for college, enough to cover tuition on almost every campus in the country at the time. The next generation of students, the baby boomers, did pretty well too. When President Lyndon Johnson signed a sweeping higher-education bill in 1965, he promised that ''a high school senior anywhere in this great land of ours can apply to any college or university in any of the 50 states and not be turned away because the family is poor.'' 
Today, thousands of teenagers would probably disagree with President Johnson, and it seems reasonable to say -- as two new books do -- that the financial-aid system has been sliding backward. The country's 250 or so top colleges actually enroll fewer middle- and working-class students than they did in the 1980's.
 Making it to college, meanwhile, is just one of the hurdles young adults now face. When they leave campus, with a degree or without one, many will be much deeper in debt than their parents or grandparents were. They will also be helping to pay for their elders' retirement, through Social Security taxes. Many will be buying homes that have recently soared in price, and so will end up transferring yet more wealth to an older generation. Then they will have to pay for day care in an economy that gives bigger tax breaks to ''someone buying a second home than raising a second child,'' Tamara Draut writes in ''Strapped: Why America's 20- and 30-Somethings Can't Get Ahead,'' a grim tale of one-sided generational war. 
 The fight for resources between generations does not usually get as much attention as society's other divisions. But with the boomers starting to retire and depend on Social Security and Medicare, the tension between them and their children has the potential to become a defining political issue. 
 Whenever this debate starts, it would be nice if both sides avoided poor-mouthing their own situation. Boomers, perhaps, could acknowledge that they benefited from affordable tuition, as well as booms in stock prices and home values. Generation X and those who come after us -- I am 33, on the older end of Ms. Draut's target audience -- could remember that life is mostly better than it used to be. 
 We will live longer than our parents, on average. The percentage of 30-year-olds with a bachelor's degree has more than doubled since 1970. The nation's divorce rate has stopped rising. Crime has fallen to levels that were unimaginable a generation ago. Inequality has increased, but wages over the last generation have still risen faster than inflation across the economic spectrum. Cross-country plane travel and personal computers have become standard features of middle-class life.
 Most of us understand this, too. In a nationwide poll conducted by The New York Times in March, 63 percent of respondents between the ages of 18 and 34 said they had a better standard of living than their parents, and only 13 percent said it was worse.
 Unfortunately, Ms. Draut -- who works at Demos, a New York research group -- is not big on weighing pros and cons. Instead, she relies on first-name-only anecdotes and misleading statistics to insist that life keeps getting worse. She uses men, who have received smaller raises than women in recent decades, as a proxy for the entire workforce, for example. She briefly acknowledges that women have made progress, then downplays it by saying that many hold low-wage jobs at Wal-Mart. Young workers, she writes without the benefit of evidence, are ''earning so much less than they used to.''
 Summing up her thesis, she offers this quotation from another study: ''With the possible exception of having a larger array of entertainment and other goods to purchase, members of Generation X appear to be worse off by every measure.''
 The biggest shame about the overstatements is that they distract from the serious and novel parts of her argument. The economic rules have indeed changed more quickly than society's ability to deal with them, especially when it comes to education. 
 A college degree is now crucial to good-paying work, but many ambitious students from poor families find it impossible to get through four years. In ''Aiding Students, Buying Students: Financial Aid in America,'' Rupert Wilkinson, a former professor of American history at the University of Sussex, England, uses the charming story about Ann Radcliffe to point out that colleges have often used financial aid for purposes other than attracting poor students. Now, he argues, they should make a new push to open their doors. 
 There are problems on the younger end of the education spectrum, too. Starting public education at age 5 might have made sense when most women stayed home. But schools should surely start earlier today, especially because we know that early child development matters so much, as Ms. Draut notes.
 These are the kind of high-minded projects that a wealthy nation should tackle. It will not happen soon, though, if Americans first need to be convinced that life is generally miserable.


GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); CHILDREN (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); MEDICARE (67%); GRANDPARENTS (66%) Education and Schools; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Special Sections; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt; Tamara Draut; Rupert Wilkinson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006



170 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 3661 words

HEADLINE: The Two Faces of A.P.

BYLINE: By Tamar Lewin. 
Tamar Lewin is an education reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
EVERY summer, there is a fabulous moment at the Greensboro, N.C., ''Cool to Be Smart'' celebration, for students who have passed five or more Advanced Placement exams -- the moment when one of them selects a lucky key and wins a new car and balloons cascade from the ceiling.
 ''I was so surprised when my key fit in the door that I just stood there for a couple seconds, and the balloons came down and everybody was clapping and cheering and my dad came screaming and yelling from the audience,'' says Laura St. Cyr, last year's winner, now a freshman at nearby Elon University.
In the last four years, the Guilford County School District has given away four cars, 20 laptop computers and 22 scholarships of $1,500 each -- all in the service of coaxing students into more rigorous courses. 
 When Terry B. Grier became superintendent of the district, which serves more than 67,000 students, the two high schools with the most affluent students offered at least 15 Advanced Placement courses; the 12 others offered only a handful. So Dr. Grier decreed that every high school would have at least 15 A.P. courses, every student who took an A.P. class would be required to take the A.P. exam, paid for by the district, and every A.P. teacher would have special training. He cajoled local businesses to donate the prizes to create momentum for the program.
 ''Why should your ability to access a quality academic course be bound by where you live in our community, in our country?'' says Dr. Grier. ''A.P.'s are not for the elite, they're for the prepared. And it's our job to prepare these kids.'' 
 His efforts have doubled the number of students taking A.P. courses, doubled the scholarship money they receive from colleges, and tripled the number of A.P. students who are black, in a district that is about half minority. Last year, 246 students qualified for ''Cool to Be Smart,'' and while Laura St. Cyr was the only one to get a Honda CRV, all of them were eligible for college credits that could save them on tuition. (Many universities award credit for courses when students score at least a 3 -- out of 5 -- on the exam.) 
 Tactics differ, but Mr. Grier's commitment to the Advanced Placement program has become part of the gospel of improving education in hundreds of struggling urban and rural districts. Schools are doing all kinds of things to nudge students into A.P. classes, which are intended to mirror introductory college survey courses. 
 At some schools in Dallas, students get $100 for every test on which they score 3 or higher, thanks to a partnership with Texas Instruments; their teachers also get $100, in addition to $20 an hour for tutoring them. In New Jersey, Hackensack High School attracted 300 students to a new summer-school program to help hard-working students move into A.P. classes. Arkansas, Florida and South Carolina pay for all their students' exams, which would otherwise cost $82 a shot. Minnesota will join the list this year.
 The Advanced Placement program, administered by the College Board, began 50 years ago as a way to give a select few high school students a jump-start on college work. But in recent decades, it has morphed into something quite different -- a mass program that reaches more than a million students each year and is used almost as much to impress college admissions officers and raise a school's reputation as to get college credit. As the admissions race has hit warp speed, Advanced Placement has taken on new importance, and government officials, educators and the College Board itself have united behind a push to broaden access to A.P. courses as a matter of equity in education.
 But at the very time that schools like those in Guilford County, Dallas and Hackensack are jumping on the A.P. bandwagon, many of the elite schools that pioneered A.P. are losing enthusiasm, looking for ways to cut their students loose from curriculums that can cram in too much material at the expense of conceptual understanding and from the pressure to amass as many A.P. grades on their transcripts as possible. A few have abolished A.P. programs altogether, and many have limited students to taking three a year, fearing burnout and bad scores.
 It's not that a large number of private schools shun A.P. courses -- to the contrary, the number offering them rose 15 percent last year -- but teachers and college counselors at many top-notch schools, public and private, confess to discomfort with the way the program seems to hijack the curriculum. 
 ''We've been put off for quite a while about the idea of teaching to the test, which is what a lot of A.P.'s are,'' says Lynn Krahling, guidance director of the Queen Anne's School in Upper Marlboro, Md. ''We're convinced, as an educational institution, that they're not as valuable as what we could be offering on our own. 
 ''But,'' she says, ''I think we're going to stick with A.P.'s -- purely out of fear. Parents are so terrified that if we drop our A.P.'s it would really affect college admissions that I think some of them would jump ship.'' 
 Sixty percent of American high schools now participate in the program, which offers courses in 35 subjects, from macroeconomics to music theory. Last year, 1.2 million students took 2.1 million A.P. exams, and the number of students taking A.P. courses has increased tenfold since 1980. Newsweek magazine has gone so far as to rank the nation's best public high schools using the number of students who merely show up to take A.P. or International Baccalaureate tests as the sole criterion. (I.B. is another advanced curriculum, though far less common; Dr. Grier counts it for his ''Cool to Be Smart'' program.) 
 No wonder, then, that more than 3,000 students took seven or more A.P. exams last year. No wonder, either, that some students use the A.P. program tactically, knowing that their senior-year A.P. course listings will appear on their transcripts, and be counted in admissions decisions, long before they take the A.P. exam in May -- if they ever do. (The A.P. brand is a curious one: students can take the exams, which run three hours, without taking the courses.) Part of the pressure to take A.P. classes also springs from the fact that most schools weigh A.P. grades more heavily than others -- an A in A.P. is often worth five points, while a regular A is worth four -- so savvy students know that A.P. courses can raise their G.P.A.'s, one of the most important elements in college admissions.
 SO many more students are arriving at colleges with a slew of A.P. courses under their belts that some institutions have become more choosy about giving them credit. Harvard, for example, no longer gives credit for scores below 5. And A.P. classes have spread so widely that the College Board is concerned that some schools are putting the label on courses that offer a diluted curriculum. So starting next month, it will begin to audit the 15,000 high schools that offer A.P. classes to make sure students everywhere get the same quality of curriculum.
 ''It's really important that we not give students in traditionally underserved schools a watered-down version of A.P.'s,'' says Trevor Packer, director of the Advanced Placement program. ''This is a massive outreach effort to help even the playing field.'' 
 Despite its explosive growth, only 23 percent of last year's public high school graduates had taken at least one A.P. class, he says, adding: ''Among those who take A.P. exams, 1 in 10 students in urban schools score 3 or higher, compared to 6 in 10 in suburban schools.''
 At many urban schools, superintendents, principals and teachers talk about how the Advanced Placement program exposes students to new subjects like economics and psychology. They say A.P. courses help identify opportunities for those who might otherwise not think of themselves as college material, and help solve discipline problems when bored students acting up in lower-level classes are put with higher achievers. Even students who score only a 2 on an exam, or never even take the exam, they say, benefit from having challenged themselves. 
 So while high-end schools are capping the number of A.P. classes a student can take, burnout is less a concern at schools where exposure to the curriculums is considered a virtue in itself. 
 ''I've had students who made a 2 come back from college and tell me they did really well in freshman English because they'd been so well prepared by their A.P.,'' says Michael Watkins, director of guidance at W. T. White High School in Dallas, which has the $100 bonuses for successful exam scores. ''I used to work at a suburban high school, all Anglo, where they said no student could handle more than three A.P.'s. We have the opposite view here: They can take as many as they want. I had a student, from Vietnam, who took 20 A.P. exams. If they're willing to do the work, our teachers will help them, tutoring before and after school and on weekends. We had one student who got 60 hours of college credit. That saves a lot of tuition money. And we're very proud that our A.P. classes are racially mixed.'' 
 One of the most troubling aspects of American education has long been an intractable achievement gap, with white students outpacing blacks in academic performance, a disparity reflected -- and, many say, caused -- by ability-grouping systems that cluster white students in honors classes and minorities at lower levels. At some racially mixed schools, a peek through classroom doors at skin color is a good indication of what level the class is. Advanced Placement classes have traditionally been viewed as part of the problem, but with an open-door policy, some educators say, they can be part of the solution.
 In the last 10 years, the number of black students taking A.P. exams has tripled, to 68,000, and the number of Latino students has nearly quadrupled, to 151,000. While the percentage of Latinos taking the exam matches their percentage in the school population (about 13 percent), the percentage of blacks taking the exam, 5.5 percent, is only a third of the percentage of blacks in the high school population.
 For all the excitement in struggling districts, though, it is unclear just how much taking an A.P. class does to raise academic achievement, particularly for students who never take the exam. Research shows that good scores on A.P. exams are strong predictors of college success. But last year, a study of University of California freshmen by two Berkeley professors found that the number of A.P. courses on students' transcripts bore little or no relationship to their college performance. So, the authors suggested, selective colleges should reconsider their use of A.P. enrollment as a make-or-break criterion in admissions. Another study, in Texas, found that A.P. classes had no advantage over other kinds of college-prep classes in raising a student's performance once in college.
 In 2002, a committee of the National Research Council, part of the National Academy of Sciences, sharply criticized A.P. math and science courses for cramming in too much material at the expense of understanding and failing to keep up with developments in the subjects. The College Board is now revamping its science and history courses.
 ONE striking oddity of the Advanced Placement program today is that while many less-than-distinguished public high schools have open-door policies about who can enroll in A.P. courses, many academically superior schools still act as gatekeepers, allowing only top students to enroll. At many suburban and private schools, students must have good grades or a teacher recommendation or both. And at Stuyvesant and Bronx Science, the two most competitive public high schools in New York, demand is so great that only students with the highest grades get into the popular A.P. classes. 
 Some of the most academically demanding private schools -- among them, in New York, Brearley, Fieldston and Dalton -- take a different approach: they do not offer Advanced Placement, although many of their students still take the exams. 
 ''At Dalton, advanced classes aren't called A.P.'s, but I think most of my grade took A.P. exams last spring,'' says Nell Hawley, a senior who took three exams last spring and scored 5 on each. ''But not having A.P. classes at Dalton means that you get to learn for the sake of learning, not taught to the test.'' 
 At Friends Seminary, a small New York private school, A.P. biology was dropped recently in favor of a faculty-devised advanced biology course. The change was not a happy one for Audrey Reynolds, the director of college counseling. ''It was much to my chagrin, since 85 to 90 percent of our students were getting a 4 or 5 on the A.P. bio exam, but our department thought the A.P. didn't give the extensive lab work we think is necessary,'' she says. 
 While it is the department's job to make that decision, she says, her job is to make sure that colleges accept the new course on the same basis as the A.P. Schools typically send course descriptions along with transcripts so admissions officials can judge a student's achievement level. 
 At Friends, for each student who takes the new advanced bio course, Ms. Reynolds adds a page-and-half attachment setting forth its track record with A.P. and the rigors of the new curriculum -- and, she says, ''referring to the National Academy of Sciences report that A.P. bio covered so much material that students spent the year racing through it rather than getting into depth.''
 Two seniors at Friends, Eden Wall and Annie Perretta, say they have learned an enormous amount in their A.P. courses but wish there had been more room for discussion. Sometimes, they say, the pace can be overwhelming. 
 ''In our physics A.P., we had a test where our whole class did badly, and we asked our teacher if we could slow down and review,'' Eden says. ''We love our physics teacher, and he understood, but he said we had so much material to get through before the break that there was no time for review. I think he was as frustrated as we were.'' 
 Lawrence Weschler, director of the New York Institute for the Humanities, became critical of A.P. courses based on the experience of his daughter, Sara, who decided on Brown but has deferred enrollment.
 ''When Sara would go on her college tours, everywhere she went, they said, 'We will be looking to see if you took every challenging course you could, and that's how you will be judged,' so of course she took as many as she could,'' he says, adding that it seemed misguided for high school students to try to place out of classes they should be looking forward to taking in college. 
 ''Even where the A.P. courses got the kids excited,'' Mr. Weschler says, ''the excitement would immediately be doused. In European history, the kids got very involved in the causes of World War I and wanted to talk about it, but the teacher said they couldn't because they had to move on and cover all the material for the test. And in A.P. English, in the Pelham school system, the assignment for the poetry unit was to take a poem home at night and come up with two multiple-choice questions on it that could be on the test.'' 
 Many counselors are troubled at the extent to which Advanced Placement has become a weapon in the college-admissions arsenal, especially when students forgo electives they might have preferred. 
 ''On one hand, many of the classes are ambitious and wonderful, and I'm glad we have them,'' says Scott White, a counselor at Montclair High School in New Jersey. ''I also understand that colleges have no good way to consistently assess the highest level kids, and A.P.'s can provide an external paradigm for doing that. But from the student's point of view, there is a horrific rise in the expectations on the part of colleges, almost a sense that if a student isn't taking the highest level in every course, there's something wrong. So we have students taking five A.P.'s, grinding away at all that memorization in a way that's more appropriate to boot camp than to kids growing up.''
 Some schools say there is now a sense that Advanced Placement classes have become inevitable.
 ''Part of it is that the College Board has done a very good job in marketing their products, working to increase access and enrollment, and the more students take the A.P.'s, the more they perpetuate the idea that students should take A.P.'s,'' says Emmi Harward, director of college counseling at Hampton Roads Academy in Newport News, Va. 
 ''Five years ago,'' she says, ''our English and history faculty developed some elective seminar-style courses for seniors, very rich college-level courses on the ethics of war and the power of myth. Even though the courses were very appealing, they felt like a risk to some students and parents who know there are colleges out there that just circle the number of A.P.'s on the transcript.''
 WHEN all is said and done, how important are A.P. courses in college admissions? 
 That depends. Certainly, most schools count them in an applicant's favor. One common approach is used at the State University of New York at Geneseo, where admissions officers tally the number of foreign language, math and science courses an applicant has taken, along with the number of A.P. or other advanced courses. Community college courses, often taken by advanced students in districts that lack an A.P. program, count, too, says Kristine Shay, director of undergraduate admissions, but ''not exactly on the same basis, since they don't have that known national curriculum.''
 SUNY Binghamton takes a different tack. Admissions officers look at the grade point average and SAT scores, circle the number of A.P. and honors courses, consider what coursework was available at the high school and make a nonnumeric judgment: ''All things being equal, if we had a kid with an 88 average and three A.P.'s, versus a kid with a 90 average and no A.P.'s, we'd probably take the one with the A.P.'s -- but make it an 85 average and three A.P.'s and I'm stumped,'' says Cheryl Brown, director of undergraduate admissions. She adds that almost 100 students arrived on campus this academic year with enough credits for sophomore standing.
 Admissions officers at the most elite colleges say, in almost identical words, that they want students who have taken ''the most rigorous program the school offers'' (Marlyn McGrath Lewis, Harvard); ''the most demanding program they can take at their high school'' (Karl Furstenberg, Dartmouth); ''courses that challenge them academically'' (Jeffrey Brenzel, Yale); and ''the most challenging program that's available and that they can handle'' (Richard Nesbitt, Williams). 
 ''We don't expect students to take every A.P. that's offered, but if their school has 15 A.P.'s and they've avoided them all, that would certainly say something,'' Mr. Nesbitt says.
 While admissions officers acknowledge that taking the most difficult A.P. courses, like Calculus BC, indicates a strong academic background, they take pains to say that there is no magic, no numeric formula -- and no penalty for students from schools that do not have an A.P. program. 
 ''Sheer A.P. firepower, having 10 A.P.'s, doesn't impress us,'' says Mr. Brenzel. ''It's just one factor in evaluating a student's background and preparation.''
 NOT too long ago, Hackensack High School set its best students on an honors track that included few minorities, though two-thirds of the student body is black and Hispanic. But a summer tutoring program that began last year has helped ambitious students move into Advanced Placement and pre-A.P. classes, which are now inching closer to the school's overall racial mix.
 ''I push it with all the parents, some of whom still think about A.P.'s as an elite thing,'' says Mark Porto, the principal. ''I had an African-American mother come in, upset that her son had been suspended. He's a bright boy and I told her that what we really should be talking about was why he wasn't taking any A.P.'s.''
 In the A.P. American history class, Hackensack students read excerpts from J. P. Morgan, Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson, analyzing their tones for clues as to whom these leaders were trying to reach and whom they wanted to protect, while placing the writings in the broader social context of the emerging progressive and consumer movements. 
 Many in the class have always been among the school's top performers, but others, like Theo Idigo, entered the A.P. world through the summer program, where the same teacher helped prepare him. 
 ''I never thought about A.P.'s until my brother went away to college, and started telling me how I should take as many A.P.'s, as many difficult courses, as I could, because that would help me prepare for college,'' he says, adding that he hopes to apply to Princeton, Temple and elsewhere. ''Now I think they're good.'' 
 In an English literature A.P., Hackensack students work in small groups, as their teacher floats from table to table, asking questions: ''Who's speaking in this poem, and who's he talking to?'' she asks. ''He's a farmer, right? Is he an educated man? No. And what kind of imagery is he using? Right, animal imagery. And why? Because that's what he knows. And what do you think is his attitude toward his wife?'' 
 Slowly, the students tease out the story: this is an older farmer, married to a very young woman who remains scared and distant from him, and he longs for closeness. ''They probably met online,'' a student says.
 Marc Paulo Guzman, Hackensack's top-ranked senior, takes the literature class, along with A.P. biology and A.P. calculus. 
 ''I wish there were more A.P.'s offered,'' he says. ''They're fast-paced, and you learn a lot.'' Marc, whose family emigrated from the Philippines in 1993, is applying to Princeton, Yale and Duke. ''I've done a lot of research about college on the Internet,'' he says, ''and I know A.P.'s can help you get in.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: IT'S NOT ALWAYS WORK -- Laura St. Cyr, left, winning a car at a ceremony for students who have passed five A.P. exams, in Greensboro, N.C. Students are also being nudged into A.P. at Hackensack High School in New Jersey, opposite page, though not with free cars. (Photo by Guilford County Schools, North Carolina)
(Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pgs. 24, 25)
ADVANTAGES -- Schools like Hackensack High see A.P. as a matter of education equity and urge students to take as many courses as possible. Sarah Jane Petersen, top left, and Brittany Johnson review a biology lesson. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 26)
ACADEMICS -- The Advanced Placement program has grown to include 35 subjects as varied as art (Fernanda Fajardo, top) and American history (John Latorre and Jackie Fulop, above, with the teacher, Nikki Van Ess).
ACCESSIBILITY -- Theo Idigo, left, entered the A.P. world through a summer program initiated by his principal, Mark Porto, right. Marc Guzman, center, has been taking classes all along. He is No. 1 in his class. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 27)
 IT'S ON YOUR RECORD -- A transcript from Jericho High School on Long Island tells college admissions officers that the student has excelled in challenging Advanced Placement courses in a highly competitive environment. (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (54%) Education and Schools; Special Sections; Admissions Standards

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (50%)

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (50%)

PERSON: Tamar Lewin

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (64%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006



171 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 4; Education Life Supplement; SPENDING IT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: A Borrower Be 

BYLINE: By Sandra Salmans

 BODY:
WITH the last college application mailed off, it's time for would-be freshmen and their parents -- not to mention returning students -- to turn to the subject of financial aid. Increasingly, that quest means selecting a loan from a bewilderingly varied range of offerings. Now there's a double-whammy: not only are you likely to be borrowing more, you can expect to pay higher interest rates as well.
 Student loans recently overtook grants as the leading form of financial aid for undergraduates, a trend likely to accelerate as college costs continue to rise. Two-thirds of students graduate with some debt: the average for a senior in 2004 was $19,200, according to the United States Department of Education, and for a newly minted M.D., $125,800. ''Borrowing, unfortunately, will become the price of postsecondary education,'' says Brett Lief, president of the National Council of Higher Education Loan Programs, which represents private lenders. ''In the future, just about everyone's going to have to borrow.'' 
All that borrowing will almost certainly become costlier, too: a bill that nearly passed Congress days before the holidays would raise interest rates on student loans and impose fixed rates, thus eliminating most incentives to consolidate loans to lower your payments. One benefit for students: the legislation would reduce the origination fees that many borrowers pay when taking out loans. The Senate and House are expected to reconcile differences when they reconvene after the winter break. 
 Federal loans come in three types: the Perkins, Stafford and PLUS (the Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students). A growing number of borrowers are supplementing these with private loans, whose terms vary widely. For families shopping for loans, here are the choices, in order of most desirable to least:

PERKINS LOANS -- For students with exceptional need, the Perkins, at a fixed 5 percent interest rate, should be the best deal this year. But total Perkins borrowing maxes out at $20,000 for an undergraduate's entire college career.

STAFFORD LOANS -- With $50 billion to lend, Staffords are the biggest program and come two ways: for those with financial need, the government pays the interest until the student is out of college; unsubsidized loans are available to everyone, and begin to charge interest right away. Low rates have made Staffords especially appealing, but that will change on July 1, when the rate rises to 6.8 percent. (Unfortunately, students cannot lock in the current rate, 4.7 percent, for the next academic year.) Most students are limited to $23,000 in total Stafford money. For those not supported by parents, the cap doubles, and increases to $138,500 for graduate students.
 While the Stafford is federal, only about 25 percent of this money represents direct lending from the government. Most colleges provide Staffords through banks or other private lenders and send students lists of preferred ones. But borrowers are free to hunt around. Many lenders give discounts for prompt repayment or when payments are debited directly from bank accounts. ''Look for discounts that are immediate,'' says Mark Kantrowitz, publisher of the Web site finaid.org, adding that borrowers must pay attention to the terms of the loans: ''It's very easy to have one late payment'' and forfeit the discount. 

PLUS -- Parents can borrow up to the total cost of undergraduate education, minus other aid. Under the new legislation, interest rates would rise to 8.5 percent, from 6.1. But for the first time, graduate students would be allowed to borrow up to $12,000 annually in their own name. PLUS loans have historically been underused, Mr. Kantrowitz says, perhaps because parents are reluctant to sign for their children and because PLUS traditionally requires borrowers to begin repayment 60 days after disbursement.

PRIVATE LOANS -- These loans constitute the business's fastest-growing segment, with an estimated $14 billion now on loan. Most charge much higher rates than Stafford or PLUS and, unlike those loans, set higher rates for applicants with poor credit. In the past, borrowers were often graduate students, for whom PLUS wasn't an option. And with a cap on the amount of federal money that can be borrowed, many students have no choice but to turn to these loans, which have ceilings of $100,000 for undergraduates, $150,000 for graduate students and no limit with a cosigner. Also, parents are often released from their obligation if the student establishes a good repayment record. Some lenders, like myrichuncle.com, cut rates for top-performing students who are headed for lucrative careers.
 Finaid.org, Mr. Kantrowitz's Web site, lists private lenders. For those navigating the loan maze, he advises: ''Live like a student now, so you don't have to after school.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Comparison Shopping''Unlike federal loans, rates and fees of private loans vary with creditworthiness. The private loan below is the most common offered by Sallie Mae.Interest ratesSTAFFORD: For 2006-7, pending -- 6.8%PERKINS: Congressional -- 5%PLUS: approval -- 8.5%PRIVATE SIGNATURE LOAN: Most favorable -- 7% (adjusted monthly to prime rate)PRIVATE SIGNATURE LOAN: Least favorable -- Prime rate plus 6 percentage points (adjusted monthly)FeesSTAFFORD: For 2006-7, pending -- Up to 3% of loanPERKINS: Congressional -- NonePLUS: approval -- Up to 4% of loanPRIVATE SIGNATURE LOAN: Most favorable -- NonePRIVATE SIGNATURE LOAN: Least favorable -- Up to 6% of loanRepayment on $20,000 loan, 10-year termSTAFFORD: For 2006-7, pending -- $27,619PERKINS: Congressional -- $25,456PLUS: approval -- $29,757PRIVATE SIGNATURE LOAN: Most favorable -- $27,866*PRIVATE SIGNATURE LOAN: Least favorable -- $35,835**Assumes fixed rates.(Source by FinAid.org)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); STUDENT LOANS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); TRENDS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%) Colleges and Universities; Special Sections; Student Loans; Tuition

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (56%)

PERSON: Sandra Salmans

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006



172 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 2; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: M.B.A.'s With Three Bottom Lines: People, Planet and Profit 

BYLINE: By Abby Ellin

 BODY:
IN business schools, ''green'' thinking means more than concern for the environment. Social responsibility (no sweatshops, no Enrons) and economic viability (this is business) are also part of the definition making its way into the mainstream. Many traditional M.B.A. programs have begun to recognize a triple bottom line -- of people, planet and profit -- and at a few institutions, the marriage of commerce and social responsibility is the guiding principle. 
 New College of California has gone so far as to trademark the phrase Green M.B.A. The college opened in San Francisco in the 1970's as an educational haven for social activists; in 2003, it began offering an M.B.A. in sustainable business. The Bainbridge Graduate Institute in Washington State and the Presidio School of Management at Presidio World College in San Francisco also focus their entire curriculums on sustainable business -- what Gifford Pinchot, Bainbridge's chairman, defines as ''good business practices in the present that leave the world better off for future generations.'' 
Along with traditional courses like accounting and inventory management, students learn about toxic waste, marketing eco-friendly businesses, emissions regulations and the effect of environmental actions on profits. Presidio, an accredited decade-old college directed at midcareer diploma completion, began its program in 2002 and has conferred 20 M.B.A.'s so far. New College has granted 35. Bainbridge, which also opened in 2002 and is seeking accreditation, has 15 graduates. 
 One of them is now environmental product steward for Hewlett-Packard's inkjet printer line. Most, however, have started their own companies. 
 Joey Shepp, a graduate of the University of California, Santa Cruz, received a master's from New College last spring. He chose New College for its smaller classes and ''an education that was more on the cutting edge,'' he says. ''None of the bigger schools had incorporated that level of sustainability in their curriculum.'' A self-described visionary artist, entrepreneur, technologist and, yes, tree hugger, he is now Internet marketing director of Green Festival, which organizes marketplaces for eco-friendly entrepreneurs, and helped found a company that designs Web sites for sustainable businesses and another that grades corporations for their social responsibility. 
 Those in the field say that the focus of these M.B.A. programs is the wave of the future, although their narrow scope is not without its limitations.
 ''They're providing fundamentals, but they may not be as deep as your traditional M.B.A.,'' says Mark Milstein, a business research director at the World Resources Institute in Washington and a lecturer at the graduate business school at Cornell. ''They're innovative programs with interesting faculty,'' he says. ''But they're not part of a larger institution, so students are getting a very limited offer.''
 While traditional M.B.A. programs may not satisfy an activist, they are increasingly shrewd about social responsibility: Case Western Reserve, Northwestern, Stanford, the University of Michigan and George Washington University all have concentrations in sustainable enterprise. Yale School of Management has offered a joint degree -- an M.B.A. and Master of Environmental Management -- in conjunction with the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies for more than 25 years. 
 A survey of 91 business schools released in October by the World Resources Institute and the Aspen Institute found that 54 percent require a course in ethics, corporate social responsibility, sustainability or business and society, up from 34 percent in 2001. 
 ''More and more students are interested in socially responsible business,'' says Matt Cheney, chief executive at Renewable Ventures, which finances and operates solar power plants. ''They want to make a difference, and there is a confidence that business can produce results quickly and significantly.''
 Mr. Cheney, whose M.B.A. comes from Stanford, thinks big business is ready.
 ''Given the high prices of oil and the growing frustration with global warming, people are concerned but they aren't necessarily taking action,'' he explains. ''Businesses and individuals take action when there are solutions, when companies can do something good for the environment and help the bottom line, when individuals can work for a company selling a product from a sustainable source. An M.B.A. that provides students with the tools to help find those solutions will always be in demand.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CURRICULA (89%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (78%); ACCREDITATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); EMISSIONS (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (66%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (66%); PRINTER MFG (64%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (53%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Special Sections; Business Schools; Air Pollution; Waste Materials and Disposal

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: Abby Ellin

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006



173 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2050 words

HEADLINE: Call It the Deal of a Lifetime

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
MOST mornings these days, Michael J. Kopper wakes up early, slips on a pair of khakis and hops into his Nissan sport utility vehicle for the short commute from his duplex in a Houston suburb to his job at Legacy Community Health Services, a community clinic. The Prada suits gather lint in his closet, and the shiny BMW 530 has been sold.
 Mr. Kopper's work is different now: At Enron, he was a financial sophisticate who manufactured a series of arcane partnerships that paid him millions and helped to sink the company, which filed for bankruptcy in 2001. At Legacy, which provides health care and counseling services to H.I.V. patients and other chronically ill people, Mr. Kopper is a salaried grant writer who solicits financial support for the clinic.
It has been a wrenching professional and personal reversal for Mr. Kopper, who three years ago became the first Enron executive to plead guilty to criminal charges and cut a deal with the government. Mr. Kopper was also the first high-ranking Enron employee to publicly admit to lying and stealing -- in his case, more than $16 million -- from the company. 
 Mr. Kopper's money-making schemes, hatched together with Andrew S. Fastow, the former chief financial officer, lie at the root of the mercenary culture that propelled Enron to unforeseen heights while also paving the way for its Icarus-like descent.
 The partnerships were feats of financial alchemy that became a dumping ground for Enron's flagging assets and helped sustain the growing fabulism of the company's accounting as a wide-eyed investing world watched in wonder. The partnerships also transformed Mr. Kopper from a by-the-books child of the New York suburbs with an expertise in accounting into a high-stepping Texas deal maker with a hankering for fast cars and big houses.
 Despite all of this, there is a possibility that Mr. Kopper, who just turned 41, could end up spending not one day in prison, because of the crucial role he has played in helping the government build its case against more senior executives, such as Mr. Fastow; Kenneth L. Lay, the former chairman; Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive; and Richard A. Causey, the former chief accounting officer. Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling are scheduled to stand trial on fraud and conspiracy charges later this month. 
 Certainly, Mr. Kopper's circumstances have changed in the last three years. A year ago, he moved out of the $1.5 million dream house with its glass stairways and its contemporary Japanese motif that he had designed with his longtime partner, William D. Dodson. Mr. Kopper has recently pegged his net worth at around $100,000, and he now lives on the second story of a modest duplex for which he paid $380,000; he rents out the bottom floor to help meet his expenses.
 Even so, Mr. Kopper manages to lead a bit of the good life. Despite spending hundreds of hours in conference rooms in Houston and Washington briefing government prosecutors on Enron's inner workings, Mr. Kopper, known as a compulsive jet-setter during his Enron days, has remained an enthusiastic traveler. He has visited Phoenix and played golf in Boca Raton, Fla., with his father, a former magazine publisher at Times Mirror, and has gone on ski vacations in Colorado.
 Mr. Kopper and Mr. Dodson, who has not been charged, declined to comment for this article, although friends and former colleagues did.
 Mr. Kopper's deal with the government and the chance that he might have a reduced term or serve no jail time at all -- he has not yet been sentenced -- have angered people who blame him and Mr. Fastow for destroying the life savings of many former Enron employees and sending to prison others who had just the briefest brush with the company.
 ''Of all the deals Kopper made, his best was the plea deal,'' said Richard J. Schaeffer, a defense lawyer who cross-examined him during the trial of the Enron and Merrill Lynch executives who were convicted of bolstering Enron's earnings by letting the company fraudulently appear to sell barges in Nigeria for a profit. ''He was the magician behind these deals,'' Mr. Schaeffer added. ''His sense of greed had overtaken him. He had this brilliant mind and dedicated it to this partnership of evil.''
 This public caricature of Mr. Kopper as a malevolent financial sorcerer seems at odds with his middle-class roots. Indeed, his road to the heart of the Enron scandal was unusual. Born in Brooklyn and reared in Woodmere on Long Island, Mr. Kopper was always driven by an extra spurt of ambition and yearning for the big time that for years seemed to lie just beyond his grasp, people who know him say. Writing in his yearbook at Lawrence High School in 1982, his aspiration seemed simple, if not a bit vague: ''To be successful in all my endeavors.''
 HE first enrolled at tiny Muhlenberg College in Allentown, Pa., but transferred to Duke, where he earned a bachelor's degree in economics. He also earned a degree in accounting and finance from the London School of Economics, and then began working as a loan officer at Chemical Bank in New York.
 But his appetite for deal-making lead him to Toronto Dominion Bank, where he cut his teeth as a financier, working on a number of project-finance deals with energy companies -- including, in the early 1990's, Enron. It was then that he met Mr. Fastow. The two men hit it off immediately. Both were young, hard-working and ambitious numbers guys with an appetite for deals and a desire to strike it rich as soon as possible, people who know both men say. It did not take long for Mr. Kopper, an eager Nick Carraway susceptible to the lure of Mr. Fastow's Gatsby, to join his mentor in Houston in 1994.
 Enron was developing a reputation as a freewheeling, innovative company, and its aggressive, meritocratic culture seemed the perfect fit for Mr. Kopper, who was looking to unleash his own pent-up professional and materialistic ambitions, former colleagues say. Once there, he became even closer to Mr. Fastow, going to temple with him and his wife, Leah, and socializing with them after work.
 It was not until 1996 that Mr. Fastow and Mr. Kopper created their first off-balance-sheet partnership, which they called Alpine Investors. Mr. Kopper would make no money from this partnership, which was designed to buy underperforming power plants from Enron, but he would make money in 1997 with RADR, another off-the-books deal formed to buy wind farms that Enron wanted to sell.
 Supposedly independent, RADR was financed with Enron money and controlled by Mr. Kopper and Mr. Fastow. They and some of their friends got payouts from the partnership, ultimately at Enron's expense. In that way, RADR was a template for more fraudulent schemes.
 Mr. Kopper had begun dating Mr. Dodson, who worked in the finance department at Continental Airlines and also wanted to become an investor. But he was making only about $100,000 a year at Continental, so Mr. Kopper borrowed some money from Mr. Fastow -- the amount has not been made public -- and lent it to Mr. Dodson, according to Mr. Kopper's own testimony. 
 RADR was remarkably lucrative. In just four months, at virtually no risk, Mr. Kopper took in $40,000 from the deal. Mr. Fastow's $419,000 loan generated $62,850 in interest -- an annualized return of 45 percent. It is not clear how much Mr. Dodson made. Enron's shareholders, meanwhile, footed the bill for the enterprise, which was designed to deceive them about the precarious state of Enron's balance sheet. 
 But it would be the next partnership, Chewco, also started in 1997, that would pay Mr. Kopper and Mr. Dodson an even more munificent return. ''We made, after taxes, roughly $10.5 million,'' Mr. Kopper recounted to a defense lawyer during the trial in September 2004 on the separate Nigerian deal. (Mr. Kopper would collect more than $16 million from at least five partnerships that he and Mr. Fastow created over six years; with help from Mr. Dodson, he has paid $12 million back to the government, according to Creed C. Black Jr., Mr. Dodson's lawyer. Mr. Fastow collected more than $40 million, according to court documents.)
 As the money rolled in, Mr. Kopper indulged his taste for sleek foreign cars and exotic vacations and cultivated a more risque demeanor in and about the company. He wore expensive suits and shirts with zippers that seemed to creep lower and lower the more successful he became, his former colleagues at Enron remember. He told one colleague that he had a collection of 20 designer eyeglasses. Generally aloof with his colleagues, he made more of an effort to fit in, serving on an Enron diversity committee.
 Of all the partnerships, it was perhaps Southampton, named after the opulent Houston suburb in which he lived, that came the closest to defining the corruptive, get-rich-quick and risk-free spirit of the off-balance-sheet entities at Enron. With three bankers from Greenwich NatWest, a British investment bank that did work for Enron, Mr. Kopper and Mr. Fastow created the partnership in 2000 to buy out the interests of Enron and NatWest in another entity, inserting themselves in the middle and deceiving both Enron and NatWest as to what they needed to pay.
 ON the stand last year, Mr. Kopper described the essence of the deal in a flat, analytical style. ''We stood between the two parties in order to skim money off of it,'' Mr. Kopper said, his face blank and voice devoid of emotion. How much did he make on the deal? ''Four and a half million dollars,'' he said.
 ''That's a pretty good return on $25,000, isn't it?'' a defense lawyer responded.
 Yes, it was, Mr. Kopper said. 
 The lawyer asked how long it took to cobble together such a rich, efficient transaction. ''Not that many hours,'' Mr. Kopper said. ''Maybe 10 to 12 hours of work.''
 Honing in, the lawyer asked, ''You wanted to make just a ton of money.'' 
 In a monotone, Mr. Kopper said simply, ''Yes.''
 By 2001, Mr. Kopper had his ton of money and was starting work on a new house in a wealthy Houston suburb with Mr. Dodson. Mr. Kopper had also bought out Mr. Fastow for full control of yet another off-balance-sheet entity created at Enron, LJM2. No longer would he be just another accounting executive; as general partner of LJM2, he would preside over a fast-growing private equity fund with some of the best names in high finance as investors.
 But Mr. Kopper's time in the sun would be short-lived. With Enron's collapse in December 2001, he quickly came under the scrutiny of prosecutors and regulators who immediately questioned the propriety and legality of the myriad funds. The pressure became intense. Always a slender man, he began to lose weight, and when he pleaded guilty in 2002, he said he was taking medication for stress and anxiety.
 As a government witness, Mr. Kopper, by all accounts, has been a success. At the barge trial last year, he powerfully evoked the financial cravings of Mr. Fastow, calling him ''very greedy'' and recounting examples of him giggling with childlike glee as he closed various deals. 
 The government has not put Mr. Kopper on the list of witnesses it expects to call in the trial of Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling, but the defense has. Lawyers involved in the case say that Mr. Kopper may not even be called, given his lack of direct interaction with Mr. Skilling and Mr. Lay. While the partnerships are expected to be a centerpiece of the trial, Mr. Fastow will be in a better position to discuss them and how they connect to Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling. 
 Friends of Mr. Kopper say he rarely speaks of Enron matters these days. He has ignored the imprecations cast at him by Mr. Lay, who has said that Enron was destroyed by the rogue actions of Mr. Fastow and Mr. Kopper -- a view expressed by many members of Houston's business elite.
 Always a bit of an outsider, Mr. Kopper is now even more of one. He is precluded by his plea agreement from speaking with Mr. Fastow and spends most of his time with Mr. Dodson and a small circle of friends from Enron.
 And while he declined to comment for this article, his departing words in his 1982 high school yearbook seem to hold true today. Quoting from the song ''Summer, Highland Falls'' by Billy Joel, he wrote:
 ''We are always what our situations hand us. It's either sadness or euphoria.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Under a plea agreement, Michael J. Kopper has described Enron's inner workings to the government. (Photo by Larry Downing/Reuters)(pg. 1)
 Andrew S. Fastow, standing, and Michael J. Kopper, right, appeared before Congress in 2002 over Enron. (Photo by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); AIDS & HIV (75%); WRITERS (74%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (72%); CHRONIC DISEASES (70%); CONSPIRACY (68%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%) Biographical Information; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Frauds and Swindling; Bankruptcies; Ethics

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Enron Corp; Legacy Community Health Services

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: Michael J Kopper; Landon Jr Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



174 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 8136 words

HEADLINE: The Bush Administration vs. Salim Hamdan 

BYLINE: By Jonathan Mahler. 
Jonathan Mahler, a contributing writer for the magazine, is working on a book about the Hamdan case, to be published by Farrar, Straus & Giroux.

 BODY:
In 1996, Salim Hamdan, a 26-year-old Yemeni with a thick mustache and kinky black hair, was working part time as a taxi driver, dividing his modest income between the mattress he rented in a crowded boardinghouse in the dirty, bustling city of Sana and his daily supply of khat leaves, the stimulant that most Yemeni men chew by the fistful. Then one day the low-hanging horizon of his life lifted: he was recruited for jihad. He joined about 35 other Muslims, mostly Yemenis, who were preparing to leave for Tajikistan to fight alongside that country's small Islamic insurgency against its Russian-backed government. 
One of the group's leaders was a self-assured young man named Nasser al-Bahri. Hamdan, an orphaned only child from a rural tribal village in southern Yemen, was naturally drawn to strong personalities. Although two years his junior, al-Bahri, who grew up in an upper-middle-class family in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, was far more worldly and sophisticated than Hamdan and was without question the most educated person he had ever met. Al-Bahri had studied business in college, but he was also deeply steeped in the Koran, having become a devout Muslim as a teenager in rebellion against his bourgeois upbringing. He spoke comfortably and forcefully about the plight of Muslims all over the world, and he had traveled extensively, to places as far as Bosnia and Somalia, to defend his oppressed Islamic brethren. 
 Hamdan, who had the rough equivalent of a fourth-grade education, wasn't especially religious and had no grand plans for his life other than the hope that he might someday be married, but he nevertheless embraced the idea of becoming a holy warrior. It didn't hurt that the trip was to be paid for -- al-Bahri told him that the group had raised money from a handful of Saudi-based Muslim charities -- and that Hamdan would also receive a salary.
 The jihadis convened in Jalalabad, Afghanistan, and started working their way north toward Tajikistan, first by jeep and then, when the roads were impassable, on foot. After six months traversing Afghanistan's mountainous, often snow-covered terrain, they were turned back at the Tajik border.
 At loose ends, one of the jihadis suggested that they go see a man named Osama bin Laden, a well-known sheik among radical Islamists who led a militant group of itinerant Muslim holy warriors called Al Qaeda. Having only recently been expelled from Sudan, bin Laden had relocated to Afghanistan, where he planned to rebuild Al Qaeda with the help of his new hosts, the Taliban. Bin Laden earned his reputation during the anti-Soviet campaign in Afghanistan in the 1980's, but he was now enlisting soldiers for his new crusade to drive the United States from the Arabian Peninsula.
 Al-Bahri, Hamdan and the rest of the group made their way back through Afghanistan to bin Laden's home in Farm Hada, a village outside Jalalabad, not far from the Khyber Pass. They arrived in late 1996 shortly before Ramadan, the holiest time of year. For three days, bin Laden preached to his prospective recruits about the religious imperative of reversing America's corrosive presence in the gulf. Seventeen of the original 35 jihadis decided to stay; Hamdan and al-Bahri were among them.
 For the next several years, both men worked for bin Laden, first in Farm Hada, then, when he relocated for security reasons in 1997, to a better-fortified compound in the desert outside Kandahar. In 1999, al-Bahri and Hamdan's lives became further entwined. At bin Laden's urging and with his financial help, they married Yemeni sisters in Sana and returned to Afghanistan with their new wives.
 By Sept. 11, 2001, however, al-Bahri and Hamdan's paths had diverged. Al-Bahri was in prison in Yemen for his suspected links to Al Qaeda's bombing of an American Naval destroyer, the U.S.S. Cole, in 2000. Hamdan was still with bin Laden, though not for long. In late November 2001, with America's military campaign in Afghanistan well under way, he was picked up near the border of Pakistan by a group of Afghan warlords. They hogtied him with electrical wire and within a matter of days turned him over to the Americans for a $5,000 bounty. The interrogations started, and Hamdan was soon identified as Saqr al-Jedawi, his alias during his years with bin Laden. He spent the next six months in U.S. prison camps in Bagram and Kandahar, before being flown to Guantanamo Bay in May 2002.
 Today, Salim Hamdan lives in a 6-by-9-foot cell in Guantanamo, awaiting trial by a special military tribunal established by presidential order in the aftermath of 9/11. If everything goes according to the government's plans, the Bush administration will prosecute Hamdan for violating the laws of war by conspiring to commit acts of terrorism against the United States. The government has revealed little about its case against Hamdan -- my portrait is drawn principally from his lawyers, family members and al-Bahri -- but it has charged him with serious offenses, including transporting weapons and serving as a bodyguard to bin Laden. If convicted on all charges, Hamdan could receive a life sentence.
 Hamdan's attorneys, a government-appointed Navy lawyer and a professor at Georgetown University Law Center, don't deny that their client worked directly for bin Laden, but they play down his importance to Al Qaeda, portraying him as an employee, an uneducated and far-from-devout driver and mechanic who was grateful for a paycheck but generally ignorant of the terrorist enterprise for which he worked. Moreover, they say that the tribunals, known officially as military commissions, are illegal and have sued the American government to block them from going forward. 
 This spring, the detainee's lawyers will have the chance to make their case to the Supreme Court, when it hears Hamdan v. Rumsfeld. The name alone guarantees that it will be one of the most closely watched arguments of the year, and the eventual ruling will have far-reaching implications not just for Hamdan and the rest of the Guantanamo detainees, but also for presidential war powers and quite possibly for the future of democracy in the Middle East. If the war on terror is, at its heart, a battle to show the Islamic world that there is an alternative to oppressive theocracies and autocratic dictators, nothing is more important than how the United States government dispenses justice to detainees like Salim Hamdan. Until now, America's wartime practice has been to hold onto captured combatants until the end of hostilities, when there is no longer a threat of them returning to the battlefield. In this case, though, the battlefield is unmapped and the hostilities could continue for decades. For the moment, the government has broadly classified nearly all of the more than 500 detainees at Guantanamo as enemy combatants, but eventually it's going to have to start sorting them out. This will entail answering some difficult questions. Are all Muslim men who answered the call to jihad equally guilty? Which detainees represent a threat to the United States? Who is worth prosecuting, and how? 
 Just outside the Old City of Sana, a maze of densely packed, intricately adorned stone houses and centuries-old shops that rise like drip castles from narrow cobblestone streets, sits the modern Martyrs' Mosque. If the Old City evokes Yemen's prosperous, cosmopolitan days at the center of the world's spice trade, the Martyrs' Mosque, an imposing, ash-colored monolith, speaks to its present as the poorest and most primitive of the Arabian Peninsula states.
 The big open square that fronts the mosque is a gathering place for the dispossessed. Homeless people lie on flattened cardboard boxes with gasoline cans repurposed as water jugs beside them. Dababs, minivans stuffed with passengers, career around Sana's crowded streets, jockeying for fares. Drivers struggle to be heard above the music issuing from loudspeakers on the three-wheeled cycles pedaled by cassette vendors. The smells of grilling meat and corn on the cob commingle with perfumed oil, urine and exhaust.
 There are no women in sight here, only young men and boys, a reflection of Yemen's conservative Islamic culture. And although roughly 40 percent of all Yemeni men are unemployed, everyone here seems to be in a big hurry, hustling around, often holding hands, always in standard Yemeni dress: sandals, white robes and Western-style blazers with the labels showing on the outside of the left sleeve, just above the cuff. Long curved daggers known as jambiyas, reminders of the country's enduring tribal culture, hang from belts. Cheeks bulge with khat, which brightens the mood and sends the mind in every direction, an apt emblem of the combination of aimlessness and restlessness on display.
 Ten years ago, Salim Hamdan was one of these men. He was born in about 1970 (no one, including Hamdan himself, knows for sure), hundreds of miles from Sana in the Wadi Hadhramaut, a 100-mile oasis in the mountainous desert of southeastern Yemen. His father was a farmer and shopkeeper, and the family lived modestly in a small, mud-brick home in a cliff town overhanging the fertile valley below. He was still a child when his parents died from illness, one a few years after the other. With no other family nearby, Hamdan went to live with relatives in Mukalla, a bleak port city of about 150,000 on Yemen's southern coast. By that point, Hamdan had already quit school, which is not unusual in Hadhramaut, where the imperatives of helping your family earn money far outweigh the comparatively abstract virtues of an education. 
 Within a few years he was on his own, living on the streets of Mukalla and working odd jobs. In 1990, Yemen, which had long been divided into two separate nations, the Islamic north and Marxist south, was officially unified. Hamdan, who was then 20, joined the mass migration north in search of work. There was a widespread sense that Sana, the new nation's capital, would soon be booming. As it turned out, the job prospects were not so promising, particularly for someone with Hamdan's limited qualifications. He soon found his way to the Martyrs' Mosque -- where he picked up work driving a dabab -- and then, six years later, to jihad.
 Jihad -- literally, ''struggle'' -- is a slippery concept, one that has been subjected to almost endless interpretation, violent and nonviolent alike, emanating from a Muslim's basic religious duty to encourage the spread of Islam. In recent years, though, it often has come to be understood as a violent religious crusade against the United States. Hamdan and al-Bahri's routes to jihad could not have been more different, but in many ways each is emblematic of the men's respective countries, which represent the two biggest contingents at Guantanamo. In Saudi Arabia, jihad resonated with particular force with the educated, affluent and devout; in Yemen, it exerted an especially strong pull on the country's poor. Nearly half of the country's population lives below the poverty line; unlike its neighbors in the gulf, Yemen has very little oil, and what it does have is hoarded by the government. ''Unless they are the sons of sheiks or political leaders, the young people have no way to use their energies,'' Nabil al-Sofee, a former spokesman for Islah, Yemen's Islamic party, told me recently in his office in Sana. ''The one option that is in front of anyone who wants to achieve anything is jihad.''
 Jihad has an almost mythic appeal in Yemen. Its roots run all the way back to the seventh century, when the Prophet Muhammad is said to have declared, ''Allah, give me fighters from behind me,'' his back turned conspicuously to Yemen. In its more modern incarnation, jihad can be traced to 1967, when Yemen was still divided and the British withdrew from its southern half. Finally free of its longtime occupiers, South Yemen quickly established ties to the Soviet Union, Cuba and China, and in 1970 became the Arab world's first Communist state.
 South Yemen's new identity inaugurated two decades of hostilities with North Yemen, a Muslim state whose allegiances were to Saudi Arabia and Egypt. It didn't take long for North Yemen's rulers -- including the president of today's unified Yemen, Ali Abdullah Saleh -- to exploit the conflict's religious undertones. By the time the Soviets invaded Afghanistan in 1979, many young North Yemenis already accepted that it was their duty as Muslims to confront Communist unbelievers. And so, over the next several years, scores of young Yemeni men answered their clerics' calls for jihad. Afghanistan's mujahedeen received support from many Arab countries, in addition to the United States, but the Yemenis were among the fiercest of the so-called Afghan-Arab fighters. Unlike the jihadis from wealthier states in the Persian Gulf, they were accustomed to hard living, and the rugged, mountainous terrain of Afghanistan was similar to that of Yemen.
 When the Soviets withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989, the leaders of many Arab countries, understandably worried about the combustible mix of religious zealotry and combat experience in which these men had been steeped, discouraged the jihadis from returning home. North Yemen, for its part, not only welcomed back its own fighters, it opened its borders to jihadis from other Arab countries as well. The heroic stature of these fighters was cemented in 1994, when the still-simmering tensions between Yemen's Islamists and Marxists erupted into a full-fledged civil war and President Saleh called on the ex-jihadis to help defeat the Communists. The north emerged victorious, and Saleh rewarded many of these men for their efforts. For his help mobilizing the troops, Sheik Abdul Majid al-Zindani, an ex-Arab-Afghan warrior and bin Laden's onetime spiritual mentor, was awarded the chancellorship of Iman University in Sana, a platform from which he has since steered countless young Yemeni men toward the path of jihad. 
 The Yemeni government did little to stanch the flow of jihadis, even in the face of increasing international pressure. A consummate pragmatist, President Saleh gave the U.S. permission to use its ports to refuel in the 1990's, but to the Arab world he presented himself as a leader who was not afraid to stand up to the West. In the wake of the attack on the U.S.S. Cole in Yemen in 2000, Saleh scoffed at rumors that the U.S. was planning to intensify its military presence in the country: ''Yemen is a graveyard for the invaders,'' he told Al Jazeera. After 9/11, however, President Saleh went to Washington to pledge his support for the war on terror. But having spent so many years nurturing and exploiting the country's culture of jihad, he had to be careful about how he went about dismantling it. Extraditing Islamic radicals, or even putting them in jail for more than a couple of years, would provoke the country's powerful extremist element.
 The centerpiece of Saleh's solution was to appoint a respected jurist and cleric, Hamoud al-Hitar, to meet with imprisoned extremists and persuade them that Islam does not, in fact, condone acts of terrorism. When I visited al-Hitar at his heavily guarded home in Sana one night last fall, he explained to me how the so-called Committee on Thoughtful Dialogue works. He called it ''intellectual surgery'' and described it as a simple process: he leads radicals through a series of questions about their beliefs, using the Koran or the hadith, a collection of the Prophet Muhammad's teachings, to show them how they have been misled. At the end of the program, those participants who vow not to take part in future acts of terrorism are granted presidential pardons and set free. To the obvious question -- Why believe that they'll honor the vow? -- Judge al-Hitar gave the obvious answer: These are men who take their ideology seriously; they would never sign a pledge renouncing their beliefs if they didn't mean it. A couple of years ago, President Saleh released hundreds of men with connections to Al Qaeda under the auspices of Judge al-Hitar's dialogue program. One of those men was Nasser al-Bahri.
 Al-Bahri declined to see me for the better part of the two weeks I spent in Yemen. Then, the night before I was scheduled to fly home, he agreed to meet me the following evening at a relative's home in Sana. A tall, rangy man with a receding hairline and a neatly trimmed beard, al-Bahri looked older than his 33 years. He sat on a floor cushion, his long legs extending from the bottom of his creaseless white robe. Early in our conversation, which lasted more than five hours, the power failed. For the rest of the night, the narrow room was illuminated by two candles. Al-Bahri apologized for excusing himself repeatedly to urinate, explaining that he was diabetic.
 According to al-Bahri, his decision to renounce Al Qaeda and terrorism had nothing to do with Judge al-Hitar's dialogue program, which he doubts has truly changed any minds. Rather, he said that during his two years in prison in Yemen, almost half of which was spent in solitary confinement, he had the chance to do a lot of reading and thinking. He continues to believe that America is oppressing and exploiting Muslims, but he no longer accepts that the random murder of innocent people is a legitimate expression of jihad, which, he said, ''has its time and place, like prayer.'' There was also the issue of maturity. ''When we reach our 30's, we come to regret what we did in our 20's,'' he told me matter-of-factly, like an ex-campus radical reflecting on a minor act of civil disobedience in his distant past.
 Al-Bahri was not eager to talk about Hamdan; because he feels responsible for his brother-in-law's fate, he said that discussing him was too depressing. Not surprisingly, what he did say distanced Hamdan from the military operations of Al Qaeda. Al-Bahri described Hamdan as almost childlike, a cheerful, simple-minded man. According to al-Bahri, Hamdan at first seemed excited about jihad, but he lacked both the zeal of a holy warrior and the religious grounding or inclination to grasp the ideology of the movement. As al-Bahri tells it, Hamdan went to Tajikistan for jihad but stayed in Afghanistan because working as a driver and mechanic in bin Laden's motor pool paid better than driving a dabab in Sana. 
 If al-Bahri was quick to exonerate Hamdan, he showed no hesitation implicating himself as a senior member of what may be the most notorious terrorist organization the world has ever known. Al-Bahri sounded neither nostalgic nor remorseful talking about his years as one of bin Laden's chief bodyguards; he could have been a retired executive dispassionately recollecting his years with the firm. Yet he was, in one sense, cautious: while he was willing to answer any question I asked, he explicitly disassociated himself from each specific attack that took place during his time with bin Laden.
 Al-Bahri's future had come into focus as a teenager in Jidda, when he first fell under the influence of radical Saudi clerics. ''I saw that my function was to carry guns and defend Muslims wherever they were,'' he told me. ''That was the holy work that would lead me to paradise.'' Having grown up in Saudi Arabia, Islam's holiest land, he responded personally when he heard bin Laden describe his country as an agent of the Americans and pledge to drive America from the Arabian Peninsula. What's more, al-Bahri had left Saudi Arabia for Bosnia in the early 90's and had been without the guidance of a religious leader ever since. In bin Laden, al-Bahri said, he had found ''a new spiritual father.''
 Al-Bahri rose quickly through the ranks of Al Qaeda. Under the alias Abu Jandal, he helped create new training camps that bore little resemblance to the kind he attended as a young man in Bosnia, where jihadis learned such conventional skills as assembling and firing weapons and reading maps. The focus now was on fighting in cities and preparing for martyrdom operations, which meant learning how to blend in with local populations and attack civilian targets. Bin Laden was clear about the goals. ''He would say over and over again that we must carry out painful attacks on the United States until it becomes like an agitated bull,'' al-Bahri recalled, ''and when the bull comes to our region, he won't be familiar with the land, but we will.'' During the late 90's, al-Bahri fought with the Taliban against the Northern Alliance and served as one of bin Laden's personal bodyguards during his frequent tours of Qaeda training camps around Afghanistan.
 After the attacks on the U.S. embassies in East Africa in the summer of 1998, al-Bahri said, bin Laden placed him in charge of the organization's guest houses in Kabul and Kandahar, where it was his duty to help inspire and train new recruits to undertake terrorist operations against the United States. It was at this point, al-Bahri says, that he started having second thoughts about Al Qaeda, not because he doubted its mission, but because he wasn't convinced these recruits were prepared to carry it out. 
 Jihad, it occurred to al-Bahri, had evolved from a genuine religious mission to a cattle call for any and all Muslims. Even years later, having renounced terrorism, he seemed irritated by what he characterized as Al Qaeda's failures of management. ''We were getting young people who were not committed to jihad, also very young people, 15 or 16 years old,'' he told me. ''What could we do with them? I said we should accept only religious young people. Only the religious understand what jihad means. But my voice was not being heard.'' Al-Bahri told me that bin Laden knew he was becoming disillusioned, and that's why he encouraged him and Hamdan to marry sisters in 1999; in al-Bahri's interpretation, by tying him to Hamdan, who had fewer options and was thus less likely to leave, bin Laden would have a better chance of keeping al-Bahri in the fold.
 During the summer of 2000, Hamdan and al-Bahri came back to Sana for a brother-in-law's wedding. Within a matter of weeks, several Qaeda operatives in a small boat filled with explosives rammed the U.S.S. Cole, which was on a refueling stop in Yemen. Shortly after the attack, Yemeni intelligence agents started rounding up suspected extremists. Al-Bahri tried to flee but was arrested at the airport trying to return to Afghanistan. Hamdan had already taken his wife and her parents on a pilgrimage to Mecca, and word quickly reached him in Saudi Arabia that if he came back to Yemen he'd be picked up, too. Instead, he went back to bin Laden, taking his wife with him. 
 In the wake of Sept. 11, al-Bahri told me, three F.B.I. agents came to the prison where he was being held in Yemen to interrogate him. The transcripts from their interviews are classified, but al-Bahri says they were mainly interested in the structure and ideology of Al Qaeda. Asked if bin Laden had access to chemical or nuclear weapons, al-Bahri replied that bin Laden had something far more powerful: men who are determined to complete their covenant with God and carry out martyrdom operations against the United States.
 Detainees' lawyers estimate that there are currently about 100 Yemeni prisoners in Guantanamo. If even a fraction of this many Americans had been imprisoned in a foreign country for four years, the vast majority without charges, there would be a national outcry. In Yemen, however, most of the detainees' families are completely in the dark. Half of the people in the country are illiterate. Those who can read find few stories about Guantanamo. Many of the papers are state-run, and the rest are under intense pressure to toe the government line. President Saleh knows that drawing attention to the detainees would only further inflame anti-American sentiments and in so doing create more problems for him.
 A Yemeni human rights group called HOOD has a rough list of Yemenis who are being held at Guantanamo and has made contact with some of their relatives, but the families are not in communication with anyone in the U.S. government. The detainees' defense lawyers periodically come to Yemen to meet with the families who have authorized them to represent their relatives, though in some cases the detainees themselves doubt their American lawyers' good intentions. While I was in Yemen, I spent several days visiting the families of detainees with David H. Remes, a partner at the Washington firm Covington & Burling, which represents 17 of the Yemenis at Guantanamo. Remes prefaced several of his meetings by saying that their sons, brothers or husbands would be very angry if they knew he was there.
 Hamdan, too, sent word through his lawyers that he didn't want me to contact his family, but I was able to get in touch with his wife's brother, Muhammad al-Qala, through HOOD. Al-Qala, a staff sergeant in the Yemeni army, invited me to his home to meet his sister, Hamdan's wife, Um Fatima. Since her husband's arrest, she and her two daughters have been living with her brother, his family and their mother in a cramped two-story stone house in central Sana. Hamdan's lawyers came to Yemen about a year and a half ago to see her, and the lawyer's interpreter is in fairly regular contact with al-Qala, but no one whom Hamdan left behind seems to have any real sense of the gravity of his situation or the significance of his case: what could a superpower like the United States possibly want with Salim?
 Sitting perfectly straight on the shiny, floral-patterned blue floor cushions that lined the small upstairs living room in her brother's home, Um Fatima spoke for three hours through an interpreter about her husband. Al-Qala, a stocky man with a dark mustache and glassy, expressionless eyes, sat beside her chain-smoking Marlboros and working on a big wad of khat. Um Fatima and Hamdan's two daughters, 6 and 4, raced in and out in T-shirts and sweatpants. Um Fatima's full-length covering revealed only her eyes, but the difficulty of talking about her husband was evident; several times, she became so upset that she had to excuse herself and leave the room. 
 Um Fatima and Hamdan were married in Sana in 1999. She had not met him before their wedding day but was nevertheless a happy bride. They stayed in Sana for a few months before returning to Afghanistan. Um Fatima was reluctant to go, and was shocked at the conditions once they arrived. Their mud-brick home had dirt floors and no running water or electricity. It was also remote: Tarnak Farms, the walled Qaeda complex in which they lived, was tucked into a vast expanse of treeless desert and brush about 30 minutes outside Kandahar. Um Fatima's days were spent alone inside the house with her infant daughter. Hamdan, she told me, would return in the early evenings, often with clothes stained with grease from his work fixing the various cars and trucks used on the farm. Um Fatima said she would occasionally complain to him about their life there. ''Salim would always tell me to be patient, that someday we would return to Yemen,'' she said. 
 In her telling, Um Fatima was doing hardship duty for a few years so that her husband could earn good money working for a sheik she'd never heard of. Even now, years later, the fact that she had lived inside the walls of a heavily fortified Qaeda compound while her husband worked for the most infamous terrorist of our time does not seem to have penetrated her version of reality.
 Um Fatima last saw her husband on Nov. 24, 2001. She was eight months pregnant. At the time, U.S. forces were closing in on Kandahar, the Taliban's last stronghold in Afghanistan. Hamdan, who had been away for a couple of months with bin Laden, had recently returned to take Um Fatima and their daughter to Pakistan. In a borrowed car, with American B-52's circling the skies overhead, they made their way through the Maruf mountains toward the border. Hamdan decided to let Um Fatima cross into Pakistan alone; security was tight, and even if the border guards had no idea that he worked for bin Laden, being a Yemeni man trying to leave was enough to cause suspicion. He told her he would find another way through and come find her in a few days. 
 Over the course of the next few weeks, as Um Fatima traveled deeper into Pakistan in the back of a pickup truck with a group of Afghan refugees, she gradually lost hope that she would ever see her husband again. Entering her ninth month of pregnancy, she became so hysterical, she told me, that some sympathetic strangers in Karachi bought her a plane ticket home. At the airport in Sana, she was interrogated for five hours about her husband's whereabouts. Um Fatima said she assumed he was dead.
 Two and a half months later, she received a letter from him on International Committee of the Red Cross stationery. ''My sweetheart, peace and blessings be upon you,'' it began. ''I did not die. Allah prescribed a new life for me. Now I am a detainee with the Americans.. . .''
 Um Fatima showed me all of the letters she has received from Hamdan since then. Later that night, the interpreter who read the dozen or so letters to me told me how unusual they were. Yemeni men tend to be commanding and aloof with their wives. Hamdan's letters were emotive, like those of a longing schoolboy. There are drawings of his dagger (''please take care of my jambiya for me''), simple poems (''the bird danced and the bird sang. . .'') and the promise to ''see each other very, very, very, very, very soon, God willing.''
 In a three-page military order issued on Nov. 13, 2001, President Bush authorized the special tribunals before which Salim Hamdan and other non-American enemy combatants are to be tried. The trials will held in Guantanamo before panels of three to seven military officers selected by an administration appointee. Two-thirds of a majority will be required for non-death-penalty convictions. (A death sentence requires unanimity.) These are war-crimes tribunals, though unlike the recent international tribunals in Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia, the list of offenses pertain to acts of terrorism rather than genocide.
 The administration opted for these special tribunals over the U.S. criminal courts for a number of practical reasons. Broadly speaking, certain rights that would be considered fundamental in a civilian court wouldn't apply. If defendants were suspected terrorists, for instance, they couldn't very well be permitted to see all the evidence against them as some of it would no doubt be classified for national-security reasons.
 Practical considerations aside, the creation of the nation's first war-crimes tribunals since World War II sent a symbolic message, putting the war against Islamic extremism in the same class as the war against Nazism. Moreover, the tribunals fit with the Bush administration's larger strategy to reassert and expand presidential authority in the aftermath of 9/11. The executive branch would have complete control. Not only was Congress -- the body empowered by the Constitution to convene military tribunals -- left out of the decision to establish them, but it also wasn't consulted on how the tribunals would work. Instead, the administration's lawyers wrote all of the rules, from the composition of the panels to the standards for admissible evidence to the definition of a war crime. The judiciary branch was also cut out of the process: contested verdicts would be reviewed not by a federal court of appeals but by a three-member panel picked by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld.
 The first batch of defendants for the tribunals, Hamdan and three others, were carefully selected and then repeatedly vetted on their journey up the chain of command. Case summaries were passed from the military lawyers assigned to the prosecution team to the Pentagon's adviser for the tribunals to Paul D. Wolfowitz, then deputy defense secretary, to President Bush. Hamdan was originally slated to be the first Arab tried. 
 While the government has not accused Hamdan of being a member of Al Qaeda per se, it does say that he picked up and delivered weapons for use by Qaeda associates, trained at a Qaeda camp and served as a bodyguard and driver for bin Laden. The formal charge being brought against him is conspiracy, which the administration defines as having ''joined an enterprise of persons who shared a common criminal purpose.'' In a sense, the conspiracy charge is a logical one for prosecuting members of organizations like Al Qaeda that deliberately subdivide tasks and inform very few people about operations. ''To capture the nature of some enterprises, to deconstruct what makes them effective, you have to focus on the different kinds of contributions, from the target spotter to the weapons transporter to the financier,'' says Ruth Wedgwood, a law professor at Johns Hopkins who helped the Pentagon revise some of the rules for the tribunals. 
 In the U.S. criminal courts, conspiracy is especially popular among prosecutors going after organized-crime rings; it gives them leverage to lean on foot soldiers to testify against their superiors. In the context of war-crimes tribunals, however, conspiracy becomes more complicated. Because it can be applied to people at every level, it can create a moral equivalence between low-level players and leaders. This very issue came up at Nuremberg, when an assistant attorney general in the Roosevelt administration attacked a Pentagon proposal to file conspiracy charges against German foot soldiers because it might, in the world's eyes, weaken the impact of the charges against the Nazi leaders. (The proposal was never adopted.) What's more, because conspiracy is such a broad, catch-all charge, it's an easy one for prosecutors to fall back on when their proof of guilt is thin. The U.S. criminal-court system has numerous protections against this -- jury trials, judges who are insulated from politics, access to an independent court of appeals -- most of which are absent from the tribunals. ''In the American criminal system, we can have a conspiracy doctrine because we have this unique set of vibrant protections,'' says Neal Katyal, a Georgetown law professor, the architect of Hamdan's lawsuit against the Bush administration and a champion of the conspiracy charge in the criminal context. ''But when it comes to war-crimes trials, the international consensus is that conspiracy is a no-no. When the U.S. Congress itself defined war crimes in two statutes in 1996 and 1997, it didn't include conspiracy.''
 Brig. Gen. Thomas L. Hemingway, an Air Force judge advocate general who is currently serving as the Pentagon's adviser on the tribunals, wouldn't discuss the government's evidence against Hamdan other than to point out that the prosecution has already given the defense 18,000 pages of discovery, including incriminating photographs and summaries of Hamdan's numerous statements to interrogators. ''You want a one-word characterization of the case against Hamdan?'' General Hemingway asked me. ''Solid.''
 The government is certainly aware that the first trials will be closely scrutinized, and it seems improbable that it would choose a case that wasn't airtight. Hamdan's story also has narrative appeal. Unlike the vast majority of enemy combatants, who came to Afghanistan with the cresting wave of jihadis after 1999, he worked for bin Laden from 1996 until his capture in November 2001, a stretch of time that spanned not just 9/11 but also the 1998 attacks on two U.S. embassies in East Africa and the 2000 bombing of the U.S.S. Cole. And while many jihadis never even met bin Laden, Hamdan has not disputed working directly for him. A skilled prosecutor could turn his trial into the history of Al Qaeda's decade-long war against America and in so doing illuminate the nature of our enemy; the tribunals will be open to the press, except for when classified evidence is presented. Whatever evidence the government may have against Hamdan, it's hard to believe he could have worked for bin Laden for five years, through several high-profile terrorist attacks, without the knowledge of Al Qaeda's intentions or bin Laden's trust. And given that he has admitted to being a driver, the progression to transporting weapons is hardly a leap.
 Yet it seems clear that Hamdan was not a high-ranking officer of Al Qaeda. By the time the United States decided to try him in 2003, there were certainly people in custody suspected of more serious crimes. Why not prosecute the more heinous offenders first? The government won't discuss how it settled on Hamdan, but it's easy to make some logical inferences. It stands to reason that the more hard-core the suspected terrorist, the more useful the information he possessed. The government may not have been done questioning the ''highest value'' detainees when it decided to issue its first indictments. (Hamdan's once-regular interrogations, which started almost immediately after his arrest and continued for the better part of two years, ceased in early 2004, shortly before the government announced that he'd been selected for trial.) The United States was also entering uncharted waters with the tribunals; terrorism is not yet codified as a war crime in international law. It's possible that the government wanted to wait to try its most prized detainees until it had the opportunity to test its legal theories on smaller players.
 The treatment of the prisoners may have been a factor as well. Lawyers for the administration had long since built their legal defense of coercive interrogations. Nevertheless, for the first tribunals the government may have wanted ''clean'' -- as in not mistreated or tortured -- defendants, both to avoid embarrassment and to prevent issues about the veracity of their statements to interrogators. This, however, is not a point that Hamdan's lawyers intend to concede. Hamdan has already implied in an affidavit that some of his statements were coerced. He says he was punched and kicked after failing to answer certain questions, and that one of his interrogators placed a pistol on the table between them during their sessions. 
 In late November, a few weeks after the Supreme Court agreed to hear Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, Hamdan was moved from his regular cellblock in Camp Delta to a separate, smaller cellblock called Tango. When his lawyers learned about the development in early December, they were not pleased. Not only had Hamdan's relocation violated the explicit order of a federal judge that he be kept among the general population at Delta, but he also would be right next to Ali Hamza Ahmed Sulayman al-Bahlul, a supposed Qaeda propagandist with a reputation for turning other detainees against their U.S. attorneys. ''He's getting put with a known advocate for firing lawyers -- against a federal order -- and I don't even get told about it?'' Katyal's co-counsel, Navy Lt. Cmdr. Charles Swift, told me after Hamdan's move. Swift and Katyal promptly filed an emergency motion to have their client returned to a normal cellblock, and the authorities at Guantanamo complied.
 Many detainees assume that their lawyers are American spies, a suspicion fed by the fact that nearly every document or letter that they bring in or take out of the camp has to pass through military censors. Hamdan's lawyers say they have a good relationship with him; still, they worry about losing him to what they consider to be the prison's more radical element. So while Katyal plots strategy from his office near Capitol Hill in Georgetown, Swift, a voluble, boyish-looking 44-year-old Navy JAG, shuttles back and forth to Guantanamo Bay with their interpreter, Charles Schmitz, a soft-spoken professor of geography and an expert in Yemeni culture, to reassure their client that they are on his side and to persuade him to have faith in a legal system that he doesn't understand.
 It was hard enough for Swift, who was appointed by the government, to earn Hamdan's confidence when he first started meeting with him -- in his Navy uniform -- in early 2004; he now finds himself having to constantly earn it back. As the indefinite detentions of hundreds of Muslim men, many of whom were already predisposed to Islamic extremism, enters its fifth year, Guantanamo is turning into an anti-American hothouse. For the government, the radicalization of Guantanamo is a complicated issue. The main form of protest in the camps is the hunger strike, and a prisoner's starving himself to death would turn Guantanamo, already a public-relations problem, into a full-scale disaster. (As of Dec. 30, more than 30 detainees had been hospitalized and were being force-fed.) Radicalization also undermines one of the principal goals of imprisonment: deterrence. As Guantanamo's critics like to say, ''If you weren't a terrorist when you went in, you will be when you're let out.'' 
 But radicalization has its advantages for the Bush administration too. Last summer, some detainees told their American lawyers that they would no longer meet with them, and a number went so far as to formally fire them. The government considers the legions of adversarial defense attorneys working pro bono for the detainees -- from corporate lawyers to human-rights lawyers to law professors -- to be an impediment to their ability to prosecute the war on terror. Among other things, the lawyers have filed hundreds of habeas corpus petitions in order to challenge their clients' continued detention without recourse.
 More broadly, radicalization helps validate Guantanamo's existence. The more anti-American the detainees become, the greater the danger they pose and thus the more necessary it is to continue to detain them. So when Swift first heard about the decision to move Hamdan next to al-Bahul, he wondered whether it wasn't deliberate. ''If they succeed in radicalizing Salim,'' he said, ''then they've justified his trial.'' (The Pentagon would not comment on why an individual detainee might have been moved.)
 Last August, Hamdan joined a prisonwide hunger strike to protest the conditions on Guantanamo. The detainees' numerous demands included the return of religious books that had been taken from them. When Swift next visited Hamdan in late August, he found him unusually intransigent. For two days, Hamdan refused to meet with him altogether. Not long after Swift returned home to Northern Virginia, he got a call from another lawyer at Guantanamo informing him that Hamdan, a slight man to begin with, had passed out from dehydration in his cell and was taken to the medical clinic at Delta and put on an IV drip. Swift flew back down to Guantanamo Bay almost immediately and managed to persuade Hamdan to start eating again by appealing to the same sense of solidarity that he says prompted him to join the strike in the first place. The best way to help his fellow detainees, Swift told him, was not to martyr himself but to follow through on their challenge to the system.
 Like the government, Hamdan's lawyers also see him as much more than a detainee; to them, he represents the pretext for a historic and unconstitutional presidential power grab. As Hamdan's lawyers and other critics see it, the administration, by unilaterally creating the tribunals, defining the offenses and handpicking the panels, is not only denying detainees fair trials, it is also violating bedrock principles of the American government. To put an even finer point on it, they say the Bush administration is undermining the very values it purports to be defending in its war against Islamic extremism. They would like to see Hamdan and other enemy combatants tried before a traditional military court, a pre-existing legal system approved by Congress with built-in provisions for the complications that arise during wartime.
 Katyal, who served as Vice President Gore's co-counsel in the suit over the 2000 election, draws a sharp distinction between waging war, an act over which the president should have broad authority, and meting out justice. And so, working at his own expense with research support from a loose network of law students from Georgetown, Yale and the University of Michigan along with attorneys from the law firm Perkins Coie, Katyal has written more than a thousand pages of briefs arguing that the president has neither the authority to create the tribunals without explicit Congressional approval nor the right to deny Hamdan status as a prisoner of war, and in so doing strip him of protections guaranteed by the Geneva Conventions. ''The Geneva Conventions were written precisely to make it difficult for political leaders facing political pressure to suspend basic rights and P.O.W. protections,'' Katyal says. ''The moment we let a president say he can determine whether someone is a prisoner of war, other countries are going to start doing it back to us.''
 Katyal's arguments found traction in federal court in Washington in the fall of 2004. Just as Hamdan's second round of preliminary hearings were getting under way at Guantanamo, Judge James Robertson, a former Naval officer, ruled in his favor, declaring the tribunals illegal and abruptly halting the proceedings 30 minutes after they had begun. In July 2005, however, a three-judge appeals panel that included John G. Roberts Jr., now chief justice of the Supreme Court, overturned the decision. Katyal and Swift petitioned the Supreme Court for review, and in November, after delaying action on the case for several weeks, the court announced that it would hear Hamdan v. Rumsfeld.
 This was not the final word, though. No sooner had the Supreme Court agreed to consider Hamdan's case than a Republican senator from South Carolina, Lindsey Graham, introduced a last-minute amendment to a defense-authorization bill explicitly denying all Guantanamo detainees habeas corpus rights, or access to the U.S. federal courts. This had been the administration's intent from the moment it started sketching out its legal strategy in the war on terror in the aftermath of 9/11, but the last time the issue came before the Supreme Court, in the spring of 2004 in another detainee case, the court ruled against the president (with a loud dissent from Justice Scalia). Now Graham was effectively interceding on the administration's behalf in what amounted to an end run around the Supreme Court. 
 Days later, however, Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, persuaded Graham to change the wording of the amendment so that it would not derail pending cases, including Hamdan v. Rumsfeld. It has since passed both the House and the Senate and at press time awaited the president's signature.
 What about the hundreds of detainees who have not yet filed suits protesting their imprisonments? Aside from trial or continuing detention, the only option for the United States is to send them back to their respective nations. To date, it has released about 260 men, including a handful of Yemenis, all of whom remain in prison in Yemen, no doubt at the behest of the Bush administration. But Yemen is an unpredictable ally. In November, the United States suspended it from an aid program worth hundreds of millions of dollars, citing enduring governmental corruption, fiscal irresponsibility and the failure to enact democratic reform. Meanwhile, Islamic fundamentalism continues to gather strength in Yemen. Recently, three of the country's best-known extremists, including al-Zindani, one of bin Laden's spiritual mentors, called for a new coalition dedicated to confronting Islam's enemies and promoting Muslim values. The ongoing detention of 100 Yemenis at Guantanamo Bay may only help their cause and increase their leverage with President Saleh. So the United States finds itself trapped between two unappealing choices: hold these men as the potentially endless war against terrorism goes on, or return them to a breeding ground for Islamic radicalism in Yemen.
 For his part, Hamdan's immediate concerns have more to do with day-to-day life at Guantanamo Bay -- how much time detainees are permitted to exercise and at what time of day, what books they are allowed to read, what comfort items they are allowed to keep in their cells -- than with the future of his historic lawsuit against the United States government. As Schmitz, his interpreter, told me recently, ''The most important thing to him is what we can deliver in the camp, and that is zip.'' 
 Shortly after the Supreme Court agreed to hear Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, Swift visited Hamdan's cell armed with several front-page newspaper articles about the development. When Swift delivered the news, Hamdan smiled. Within a matter of minutes, though, his mood had visibly darkened, Swift says. Then Hamdan asked him, ''What is this exactly that I've won?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Breeding Ground of Jihad: Poverty and piety in the Old City of Sana, Yemen.
Um Fatima, Hamdan's wife, with a photo of her husband and daughter before he was seized by the U.S.
Nasser al-Bahri, who brought Hamdan to bin Laden, today in Yemen. He now says he opposes terrorism.
 Members of HOOD, a Yemeni human rights group, one of the few information sources for families of detainees. (Photographs by Brent Stirton/Getty Images, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); FAMILY (77%); TALIBAN (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (70%); ORPHANS (68%); ARMED FORCES (60%) Terrorism; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group); Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%) Jonathan Mahler; Salim Ahmed Hamdan; Osama Bin Laden; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (79%) YEMEN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); TAJIKISTAN (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (87%); GULF STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



175 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Fund Managers Hope for a Bit of the Buffett Effect 

BYLINE: By JAMES PETHOKOUKIS

 BODY:
WARREN E. BUFFETT seems like an uncomplicated fellow, as multibillionaire financial legends go. Now 75, he lives in Omaha, loves Cherry Cokes and Dairy Queen hamburgers, and buys profitable but prosaic companies in businesses like insurance, building products and wholesale grocery distribution. Even his annual report to shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway, his investment vehicle, is a noted model of economy in language.
 But Berkshire Hathaway itself is a complex $137 billion conglomerate -- part insurer, part holding company, part stock fund. ''The only way to value the business is to look at each of the enterprises separately,'' said Gerald Martin, visiting scholar at the Mays Business School of Texas A&M University, ''and that takes some doing.''
Even Mr. Buffett has trouble wrapping his arms around the company. He wrote in his 2004 letter to shareholders that commenting on Berkshire ''with both clarity and reasonable brevity becomes more difficult as Berkshire's scope widens.'' 
 In fact, Berkshire is such a strange financial hybrid that it seems that any sort of large-cap portfolio manager can justify buying it. Morningstar data shows that of the 15 domestic stock funds with the greatest percentage of their assets in Berkshire, most were classified as blend funds, which straddle the line between growth and value. But you could also find buy-'em-cheap value plays like a threesome of Weitz funds and buy-'em-pricey growth plays like the Janus Mercury fund.
 Wally Weitz, a Buffett devotee whose investment firm is situated near Berkshire in downtown Omaha, said that among portfolio managers, ''discussing what sort of valuation Berkshire should get has become a great parlor game.'' Berkshire's Class A shares -- which have never split -- are trading at around $89,000 each. The stock was pretty much flat in 2005, although it drifted as low as $80,500 in September because of concerns about the effects of Hurricane Katrina on the company's property-casualty business and because of securities investigations into Berkshire's Gen Re reinsurance subsidiary. 
 (Berkshire has a second class of common stock, the so-called B shares, which trade at roughly a thirtieth the price of the original A shares and are popular with individual investors. Money managers will buy either, depending if one is trading at a slight discount to the other.)
 ''At $90,000 I am very comfortable holding it,'' Mr. Weitz said of the A shares. ''And I think you can make a case for $110,000 or $120,000.'' Part of that case might involve Berkshire's price-to-book value, calculated by dividing the price of Berkshire stock by its book value (assets minus liabilities) per share; the book value is now about $58,000. The math shows that Berkshire is trading at about 1.5 times its book value, on the low end of its 10-year range. If Berkshire were trading at the high end of the range, at twice book value, its price would be $116,000. 
 But as Mr. Weitz suggested, there are plenty of other valuation approaches, many of them complex. 
 One method, called float-based analysis, tries to attach a present value to the flow of cash that Berkshire will generate in the future. Depending on certain assumptions, like one for the annual growth in Berkshire's float -- money from insurance premiums that the company holds and earns a return on -- analysts say that a $120,000 valuation is not unreasonable.
 But in some ways, Berkshire looks like a growth stock. A recent report by a Standard & Poor's equity analyst used an old reliable, the price-to-earnings ratio: it found Berkshire trading at 20 times earnings. That is at a premium to many of its insurance industry competitors like Chubb or Safeco. And rightly so, contends Stephen Leeb, who runs the $15 million Megatrends fund from U.S. Global Investors. The portfolio, which was up 11.9 percent in 2005, contains such typical growth name s as Microsoft and Electronic Arts. Yet Megatrends' top holding, at 4.4 percent of the fund, is Berkshire. 
 ''Oh, Berkshire's a growth stock,'' Mr. Leeb said. ''You're looking at 15 percent earnings growth, and it is a totally dominant company. God forbid California should fall into the ocean. But if it did, every other insurer would be out of business -- other than Berkshire.'' That's tough to verify, but Berkshire does have top credit ratings from both S.& P. and Moody's Investors Service. Bruce Ballentine, a Moody's analyst, says Berkshire has an extraordinary amount of equity relative to its debt obligations, while S.& P. describes Berkshire's capitalization, competitive position and financial flexibility as ''extremely strong.'' 
 One reason for those superlatives is the $41 billion in cash and cash equivalents that Berkshire reported on hand at the end of the third quarter of 2005 -- a chunk of dough on which Patrick English, co-manager of the $87 million FMI Large Cap fund in Milwaukee, is focused. ''Buffett is not going to waste that money by overpaying for stocks or something,'' said Mr. English, whose fund gained 9.1 percent last year. ''That's not his style as a portfolio manager. So what we really own is a call option on the productive investibility of those cash balances.'' 
 Such confidence was further confirmed when Berkshire's third-quarter report showed that the company owned 19.9 million shares of Wal-Mart, worth $919 million. Wal-Mart is one of FMI Large Cap's top five holdings. ''We love being on the same page as Buffett,'' Mr. English said.
 Those who say that Berkshire is undervalued may be asking themselves why the investment arm of the so-called world's greatest investor trades at a discount. Here are some theories: It was tough to be a big-cap stock in many recent years, as small-cap stocks often fared much better. Or maybe it's the overhang from the Gen Re investigation. Or just maybe the reason is Mr. Buffett himself. The Cherry Coke and Dairy Queen diet makes for great color in newspaper profiles, but is it a healthy nutritional regimen for a 75-year-old? 
 In a parallel world, where a 55-year-old Mr. Buffett with a fondness for kale was running the show, Berkshire stock might be trading higher as investors gave more weight to his involvement with the company. Yet Mr. Buffett's presence is still valued enough that a suddenly Buffett-less Berkshire would be a real shock to investors. ''If there was a sudden announcement that Warren was going to go sit on the beach and not run Berkshire, it's very possible the stock would go down a lot initially,'' Mr. Weitz said. ''But the board might then choose to buy back a lot of stock.''
 OF course, Mr. Buffett isn't going to get any younger. So what else may provide a catalyst for the stock? A distinct return to favor for large-cap stocks would be one. Some big investments by Mr. Buffett might be another. Mr. Weitz explained that the repeal of the 1935 Public Utilities Holding Company Act should make it easier for Mr. Buffett to follow up his 1999 investment in MidAmerican Energy Holdings with similar moves. 
 ''It is now possible he will make $5- to-10-billion acquisitions in the utilities sector,'' he said. The portfolio manager Whitney Tilson of the value-oriented Tilson funds suggests that investors might warm to a bold move like buying Anheuser-Busch, a company in which Berkshire already has a 5.8 percent stake. As he figures it, Berkshire could use that $41 billion to pay a 20 percent premium for the whole company, in the process adding $2.2 billion in annual net income to Berkshire's $8.4 billion in pro forma profits. 
 A burst of financial activity might offer a fitting end to Mr. Buffett's career. Mr. English suggested that if Mr. Buffett were a fictional character, his story might conclude like this: ''Buffett waits for a large correction in the market and then deploys that $40 billion in a handful of terrific values that benefits Berkshire for decades to come. Then he sails off into the sunset.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Warren E. Buffett visited exhibits before the annual meeting of Berkshire Hathaway, his investment company, last April in Omaha. (Photo by Nati Harnik/Associated Press)Chart: ''Riding a Master's Coattails''Some domestic funds that held Berkshire Hathaway Class B shares in their portfolios as of Sept. 30.FMI Large CapFUND CATEGORY: Large blendBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 1,710VALUE OF SHARES HELD: $ 4,670,010SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 6.4%Weitz ValueFUND CATEGORY: Midcap valueBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 73,120VALUE OF SHARES HELD: 199,690,720SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 5.7Oak ValueFUND CATEGORY: Large blendBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 4,413VALUE OF SHARES HELD: 12,051,903SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 4.9Mosaic InvestorsFUND CATEGORY: Large blendBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 2,363VALUE OF SHARES HELD: 6,453,353SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 4.8MegatrendsFUND CATEGORY: Large growthBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 235VALUE OF SHARES HELD: 641,785SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 4.4Mosaic ForesightFUND CATEGORY: Large blendBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 71VALUE OF SHARES HELD: 193,901SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 4.1Weitz Partners ValueFUND CATEGORY: Midcap valueBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 34,000VALUE OF SHARES HELD: 92,854,000SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 4.1RiverSource Fundamental Value AFUND CATEGORY: Large blendBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 15,069VALUE OF SHARES HELD: 41,153,439SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 3.7McCarthy Multi-Cap Stock Inst'lFUND CATEGORY: Large blendBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 494VALUE OF SHARES HELD: 1,349,114SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 3.6Mosaic BalancedFUND CATEGORY: Moderate allocationBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 259VALUE OF SHARES HELD: 707,329SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 3.5BlackRock Exchange BlackrockFUND CATEGORY: Large blendBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 3,687VALUE OF SHARES HELD: 10,069,197SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 3.4Weitz BalancedFUND CATEGORY: Conservative allocationBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 730VALUE OF SHARES HELD: 1,993,630SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 3.3Hallmark Large-Cap Growth RFUND CATEGORY: Large blendBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 40VALUE OF SHARES HELD: 109,240SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 3.2Pioneer Balanced AFUND CATEGORY: Moderate allocationBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 1,475VALUE OF SHARES HELD: 4,028,225SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 3.0Janus MercuryFUND CATEGORY: Large growthBERKSHIRE SHARES HELD: 47,885VALUE OF SHARES HELD: 130,773,935SHARE OF PORTFOLIO IN BERKSHIRE STOCK: 2.9(Source by Morningstar)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INSURANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (77%); WHOLESALERS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); BONDS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); COMMON STOCK (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); REINSURANCE (72%); ANNUAL REPORTS (72%); HURRICANES (61%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (56%) Berkshire Hathaway

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (92%) Warren E Buffett; James Pethokoukis

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (90%) NEBRASKA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



176 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: The Tax-Cut Incentive

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''A Bit of Doodling About a Tax-Cut Danger'' (Economic View, Jan. 1), by Daniel Altman: 
Supply-siders believe tax cuts stimulate the economy not by ''putting money back into taxpayers' pockets'' so that they spend more, but by increasing incentives to work, save and invest. The idea that supply-siders believe all tax cuts to be self-financing is nonsensical; we simply recognize that reducing tax rates stimulates the economy and makes the revenue loss much less than a ''static'' analysis would indicate.
 Supply-siders place great importance on economic growth -- as everyone should -- and see no reason to sacrifice growth for higher government spending. We should address the budget deficit not by simply raising taxes, but by controlling spending while removing barriers to higher growth.

Orrin G. Hatch
Washington, Jan. 6

The writer is a Republican Senator from Utah.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); TAX INCREASES (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE (84%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (84%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%) Taxation

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (71%) Orrin G (Sen) Hatch; Daniel Altman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



177 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: The World Isn't Flat, but Its Yield Curve May Be

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the "Moneybox" column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
IN late December, interest rates on two-year Treasury notes rose higher than rates on 10-year notes. 
 This yield curve inversion, as the phenomenon is known, sent the stock market into a brief tailspin and inspired a round of intense chin-tugging among economic analysts. After all, inverted yield curves have generally been viewed as the black cats of the economy, heralding slowdowns at best and recessions at worst.
Still, many economists urged investors to ignore the ill omen because of the uniqueness of the United States economy and the role it plays in the global economy. 
 Alan Greenspan, the departing Federal Reserve chairman, has labeled the persistence of very low long-term interest rates in the face of solid growth and rising short-term rates as ''the conundrum.'' It is generally agreed that the conundrum can be explained by a combination of factors that keep a lid on long-term rates: an exceptionally flexible and resilient economy, a huge trade deficit that spurs heavy purchases of long-term government bonds by foreign investors, particularly Asian central banks, and the inflation-fighting credibility of the Federal Reserve. 
 But there are signs that the United States no longer has a monopoly on the conundrum. In recent months, the yield curves in Japan and Germany, the second- and third-largest economies in the world, have been flattening, while the yield curve in Britain has already inverted. ''Long-term interest rates are even lower in Europe and Japan than they are in the U.S.,'' said Kenneth Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard. 
 Yet these economies lack some of the structural features of the United States economy. And each is at a different phase in the business cycle. While America may very likely have a slowdown in growth in the second half of this year, Mr. Rogoff says, Europe and Japan are likely to gain economic strength as the year progresses. 
 What gives?
 ''The conundrum is global,'' said Lakshman Achuthan, managing director at the Economic Cycle Research Institute, based in New York. The same factors that are influencing the interest rate climate in the United States are having similar effects on overseas bond markets. 
 For example, the cash that is flowing from around the globe to China, in exchange for manufactured goods, and to the Middle East and emerging economies like Russia, in exchange for oil, isn't simply being plowed into Treasury bonds. It's being recycled into long-term government bonds in Japan, Britain and Germany, and thus is helping to keep interest rates low in those countries, too. 
 In addition, as the world's economies become more integrated through the trade of goods and services, the world's capital markets become more tightly connected. Increasingly, sovereign debt markets in the largest economies trade as if they are in a single global market. 
 ''There is a process of convergence of long-term interest rates, because those are determined by global savings and investment information,'' said Nouriel Roubini, professor of economics at the Stern School of Business at New York University and founder of the Roubini Global Economics Monitor, a Web site that deals with macroeconomic issues. ''So when rates are low in the U.S., they'll be low in the rest of the world.''
 There has also been some convergence in the mentality of the large economies' central banks, which directly control short-term rates and indirectly influence long-term rates by signaling their willingness to fight inflation. ''Long-term inflation expectations have been pushed down around the globe, because investors believe the central banks are on the watch against inflation,'' Mr. Achuthan said.
 He warns that we shouldn't read too much into the shape of yield curves. After all, he notes, since World War II, flattenings of yield curves, as measured by the difference between rates on 3-month and 10-year government debt in the five largest economies -- the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain and France -- have issued false alarms of recession 38 percent of the time.
 Flattening curves have done a better job of indicating slowdowns -- declines in the rate of expansion. They presaged slowdowns 94 percent of the time in the United States and 66 percent of the time in Japan.
 Professor Roubini says the proliferation of low long-term interest rates around the globe may indicate slower growth ahead. The domestic bond market seems to be pricing in the possibility of a slowdown, he said. ''If the U.S. slows down, the rest of the world would, too,'' he said, ''because when the U.S. sneezes, the rest of the world gets a cold.''
 BUT most economists aren't prepared to call the globally flattening yield curves -- which resemble bunny hills more than ski slopes -- a harbinger of slower growth.
 ''I don't think that in any of these cases the shape of the yield curve suggests weakness,'' said Ted Truman, senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''The global economy is very strong.'' 
 The International Monetary Fund forecasts that the global economy will grow at a robust rate of 4.3 percent in 2006. ''You would think that that kind of strong growth would be associated with higher interest rates,'' Mr. Truman added. ''That's the conundrum, and that's been the phenomenon everywhere.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''On the Slopes, or Lack Therof''Yield curves of government issues, in local currencies.Graphs track yield curves of government issues, in local currencies, for United States, Britain, Japan and Germany and compares them to yields from one year ago.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YIELD CURVE (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT (71%); CATS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%) United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds; Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit; Interest Rates; United States Economy

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) Daniel Gross; Alan Greenspan; Kenneth S Rogoff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



178 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: For Bargains, Try Spinning the Globe

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THE United States stock market finished 2005 close to where it began the year, making it the most conspicuous absentee in a powerful worldwide rally. Double-digit percentage gains were routine in major and minor markets when returns were expressed in dollars, and in several countries, including Japan, Brazil and South Korea, they exceeded 30 percent. 
 Investors in international equity mutual funds enjoyed an average gain of 17.8 percent in 2005, according to Morningstar, far superior to the 6.8 percent gain of general domestic equity funds. That will be a tough act to follow, although managers of international funds, which invest solely outside the United States, and global funds, which seek opportunities in domestic and foreign markets alike, predicted that investors would continue to find richer pickings abroad this year.
But after such a strong year, fund managers advise that, foreign outperformance is unlikely to be as great, and they have differing ideas about where the best opportunities will be found. 
 ''I think it gets much more stock-specific and much more valuation-based,'' Gilman Gunn, manager of the Evergreen International Equity fund, said of the choices that he and his peers would have to make this year. He stressed, though, that ''yields and multiples are more attractive abroad.''
 Global fund managers polled last month by Merrill Lynch appeared to agree. They rated the United States as far more overvalued than Europe, Japan or emerging markets. They said they expected to keep a smaller proportion of their portfolios in domestic stocks during the next year than would be warranted by the size of the market, and they were inclined to be overweight in Japanese or emerging-markets stocks.
 Still, the number of respondents to Merrill's survey who say they expect to be underweight in United States stocks has fallen sharply in the last two months. The foreign stock rally of the last year has reduced the valuation premium that American stocks had over those in many other markets, making foreign stocks somewhat less appealing.
 John Chisholm, co-chief investment officer of Acadian Asset Management, holds that view. ''We're a little bit underweight in the U.S., but we had a more significant underweighting in the past,'' said Mr. Chisholm, who manages a portion of the Vanguard Global Equity fund. The increased allocation to American stocks is ''partly due to valuation,'' he said, ''and partly due to U.S. companies showing more growth than companies elsewhere.''
 Although American stocks have risen in his esteem, they have not surpassed those of emerging markets. He finds them attractively priced, despite heavy investment that has pushed up prices.
 ''A lot of money is moving into emerging markets,'' he said. ''I think there will be continued inflows unless there is some shock.''
 As anyone familiar with these markets knows, a shock is not out of the question, and he is watching for signs of trouble. 
 ''I think at some point over the next year or two, we'll see something happen that gives investors pause,'' Mr. Chisholm said. ''The riskier ones may see some challenges.''
 He is wary of investing in Argentina, which he finds expensive. As for Russia, one of last year's strongest performers, he said that it ''still looks interesting longer term, but near term it looks challenging.''
 Mr. Chisholm prefers the main northern Asia markets -- China, Taiwan and South Korea -- all of which he finds reasonably priced, and Turkey, which is benefiting from the prospect of European Union membership.
 His favorite Asian stocks include China Mobile, a provider of cellphone service, and Matsushita, the Japanese conglomerate that is enjoying a growth spurt by exporting industrial equipment to the emerging Asian markets.
 While he says he is ''higher on emerging markets as a group than developed markets,'' he does like established markets, like Canada and Australia, that are benefiting from the boom in commodity prices. In particular, he likes three Australian financial service providers: Westpac, Commonwealth Bank and Macquarie Bank. 
 Mark Headley, manager of Matthews Asian Tigers and other Asia portfolios, has little choice than to invest in the region, but that geographic straitjacket couldn't have been too binding last year; the region as a whole rose by 35 percent, as measured by the Morgan Stanley Capital International index. He has hopes for further gains this year but is concerned about valuations after such a big climb.
 ''The domestic economic environment in Asia is reasonably favorable, economic growth in most countries is fairly strong, and corporate earnings in most sectors are decent,'' he said. ''Valuations vary from market to market. They are not outrageous, but they are certainly not too cheap.''
 Mr. Headley shares Mr. Chisholm's preference for northern Asia. ''We still have a pretty good growth-value mix in Korea and China,'' he said.
 One of his favorite stocks is Lenovo, the Chinese computer manufacturer that bought I.B.M.'s ThinkPad business. ''It dominates much of the Chinese PC market and has extended its Chinese footprint into a global footprint,'' he said. ''It's a new breed of Chinese company that has tremendous long-term potential.''
 As for Japan, he advised investors to limit their exposure. ''Japan has gotten expensive,'' he said. ''The rally has pushed valuations up sharply.''
 After the big move in emerging markets, Mr. Gunn, who manages the Evergreen fund, says he thinks that this may be a good time to take the money and run. In other words, when things are as good as they can get, they can only get worse.
 ''I think the very strong three-year performance we've seen in emerging markets may be coming off the boil,'' he cautioned. 
 Many of the stocks Mr. Gunn prefers are in Europe, including the Royal Bank of Scotland Group. Among its virtues, he said, is a price-to-earnings ratio of less than 9, based on analysts' estimates of 2006 earnings, and a dividend yield approaching 5 percent. 
 Other favorites include Smith & Nephew, a British maker of artificial joints and other equipment used in orthopedic surgery and Assa Abloy, a Swedish maker of door locks that Mr. Gunn expects to cut costs after a recent management change.
 He also likes European phone companies including Deutsche Telekom, Eircom in Ireland and Telenor in Norway. 
 ''The whole sector is very much out of favor,'' he noted. The flip side, he said, is that ''valuation levels and yields are good.''
 Neil Rogan, manager of Gartmore Worldwide Leaders, a fund that looks for three dozen worldwide best bets, has no favorite place to invest because he has found solid returns in every corner of the globe.
 ''Performance has come from a variety of stocks, not just one sector or region,'' he said. Particular favorites include Apple Computer and ConocoPhillips in the United States; the Italian bank UniCredito; and O2, a British provider of mobile phone service.
 Mr. Rogan owns two South Korean semiconductor makers: Hynix Semiconductor, which he said has undergone ''a big restructuring,'' and Samsung Electronics. He is betting on an upturn in the Japanese real estate market with positions in the property developer Mitsui Fudosan and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial, a large bank holding company.
 International outperformance ''could easily happen again'' this year, Mr. Rogan said. ''If the ideas dry up, it's a sign that things aren't doing well,'' he said, ''but there are still a lot around.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers assemble ovens at a Matsushita plant in Shanghai. Matsushita, a Japanese company, invests in emerging markets. (Photo by Liu Jin/Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); BONDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MARKET SIZE (73%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Two Thousand Six (Year); Two Thousand Five (Year); Foreign Investments

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); ACADIAN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Morningstar Inc

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: CHRISTIE HEFNER (51%) Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (74%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (93%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



179 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 4943 words

HEADLINE: Who can check the President?

BYLINE: By Noah Feldman. 
Noah Feldman, a contributing writer for the magazine and a law professor at New York University, is the author most recently of ''Divided by God: America's Church-State Problem -- and What We Should Do About It.''

 BODY:
I. OUR PRESIDENTIAL ERA
 Not since Watergate has the question of presidential power been as salient as it is today. The recent revelation that President George W. Bush ordered secret wiretaps in the United States without judicial approval has set off the latest round of arguments over what the president can and cannot do in the name of his office. Over the past few years, the war on terror has led to the use of executive orders to authorize renditions and the detention of enemy combatants without trial -- for which the Bush administration has been called to account by our European allies. The treatment of detainees has also given rise to concerns in Congress about the prerogatives of the chief executive: both houses recently voted to limit the president's authority to employ C.I.A. or other executive agents to engage in cruel and inhumane interrogations. The limits of presidential power will almost surely be a major topic of discussion during Samuel A. Alito Jr.'s Supreme Court confirmation hearings, which are scheduled to begin this week. 
The stakes of the debate could hardly be higher: nothing is more basic to the operation of a constitutional government than the way it allocates power. Yet in an important sense, the debate is already long over. By historical standards, even the Bush administration's critics subscribe to the idea of a pre-eminent president. Administrative agencies at the president's command are widely understood to be responsible for everything from disaster relief to drug approval to imposing clean-air standards; and the president can unleash shock and awe on his own initiative. Such ''presidentialism'' seems completely normal to most Americans, since it is the only arrangement most of us have ever known.
 For better or worse, though, this is not the system envisioned by the framers of the Constitution. The framers meant for the legislative branch to be the most important actor in the federal government: Congress was to make the laws and the president was empowered only to execute them. The very essence of a republic was that it would be governed through a deliberative legislature, composed carefully to reflect both popular will and elite limits on that will. The framers would no sooner have been governed by a democratically elected president than by a king who got his job through royal succession.
 The transformation of the United States from a traditional republic to a democratic nation run in large measure by a single executive took a couple of hundred years. Constitutional evolution, like its counterpart in the natural world, has occurred sometimes gradually and sometimes in catastrophic jolts, like those brought about by war or economic crisis. The process has not been entirely linear: presidential power grabs have often been followed by a Congressional backlash, as in the wake of Richard Nixon's presidency. But the overall winner has unquestionably been the president, who has reached heights of power that the framers would scarcely have imagined. The modern presidency, as expressed in the policies of the administration of George W. Bush, provides the strongest piece of evidence that we are governed by a fundamentally different Constitution from that of the framers. While any constitution must evolve over time to meet new circumstances and challenges, there is reason to think that, when it comes to presidential power over national security, the latest developments have gone too far.
 The rise of the presidency began with the Louisiana Purchase, which in 1803 doubled the landmass of the United States. History taught the framers that, just as Rome changed from republic to empire with conquest of new lands, territorial acquisition would lead to the centralization of political power. Sure enough, Thomas Jefferson's decision to buy the territory without seeking a constitutional amendment or advance Congressional approval amounted to a huge expansion of presidential authority. Jefferson entered office as a skeptic of the national government's power and even privately suggested that the purchase was unconstitutional. In overcoming his own republican instincts and arranging the purchase secretly, he demonstrated how the office of the presidency would come to serve its own interests, swaying the men holding it to strengthen not simply their own authority but also that of the institution itself.
 Three decades later, Andrew Jackson's presidency marked another leap forward in presidential power. His contribution was his claim to represent the country, in its entirety, more directly and democratically than the congeries of local politicians who made up Congress. This rhetorical stance, coupled with the expansion of voting rights to white men without property, gave him the political muscle to veto the national bank and stand up to Congress in the name of the common men who had voted for him. 
 By the middle of the 19th century, with the admission to the Union of Florida, Texas and California, the United States became a continental empire. Such an empire called for an ''imperial presidency,'' as Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. suggested in his classic 1973 book of the same name. With the onset of the Civil War, the threat to the nascent empire led Abraham Lincoln to govern without Congress and to suspend access to the courts. When in 1898 William McKinley conquered the Philippines and chose to rule it, the imperial metaphor became still more apt: the United States had become, for the first time, the proprietor of whole nations whose peoples would never vote in its elections and whose governors reported directly to the president.
 In the 20th century, the Great Depression helped propel the presidency to its current level of dominance. The administrative agencies that were created during Franklin Delano Roosevelt's New Deal were a response to the tremendous complexity and growth of the national economy. An overwhelmingly Democratic Congress went along with the Roosevelt administration, giving the agencies broad discretion in regulating the economy and addressing workers' welfare. Over time, as the agencies expanded to administer health and safety regulations, Congress realized that it was more convenient to pass the buck to agencies than to deal with hard policy questions on its own. A congressman could take credit for an agency's action when it was convenient and blame the agencies when they adopted policies that his constituents disliked. It is now taken for granted that the president is in charge of the vast administrative apparatus that makes most of the important domestic-policy decisions in the country.
 Today, of course, the main arena for the extension of presidential power is the realm of national security. The president's power to use force has grown enormously since the founding. The framers worried that a standing army at the president's beck and call would encourage him to subvert legislative independence by force, and so the Second Amendment gave Americans a right to bear arms in order to form well-ordered militias that would protect ''a free state'' -- not only from the incursions of foreign powers but also from an overweening central government. Until the 20th century, a president who called the military into action did not have much to work with.
 But as America emerged as a world power, Congress began to ignore the framers' concern, enhancing the size and might of the regular army until presidents could enter even major conflicts on their own. Presidents from both parties used the ongoing hostilities of the cold war to strengthen their military prerogatives during the conflicts in Korea and Vietnam. Despite the passage of the War Powers Act of 1973, which tried to reassert Congress's role in going to war, the presidency ended up more powerful than it had been before; no president has acknowledged the act's constitutionality. Even Bill Clinton was able to bomb Kosovo without asking Congress for permission.
 The administration of George W. Bush, emboldened by the Sept. 11 attacks and the backing of a Republican Congress, has sought to further extend presidential power over national security. Most of the expansion has taken place in secret, making Congressional or judicial supervision particularly difficult. Administration lawyers have gone so far as to claim that the president as commander in chief is not bound by laws that ban torture because he is empowered by the Constitution to fight the nation's wars however he sees fit. A memo from the Department of Justice to the White House counsel dated Aug. 1, 2002, argued that any attempt to apply Congress's anti-torture law ''in a manner that interferes with the president's direction of such core war matters as detention and interrogation of enemy combatants thus would be unconstitutional.''
 The administration has also suggested, in other memos, that the president may violate international treaties if necessary to fight the war on terror. By these lights, the United Nations Convention Against Torture, the leading anti-torture treaty, could constitutionally be violated even though the United States signed and ratified it, and even though the Constitution declares treaties to be ''the supreme law of the land.'' Meanwhile, the administration takes the view that the anti-torture treaty does not apply to its actions outside the United States as a matter of law, but only, as Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice recently stated on a trip to Europe, ''as a matter of U.S. policy.'' When added to the newly declared presidential right to arrest American citizens wherever they might be and detain them without trial as enemy combatants, these claims add up to what is easily the most aggressive formulation of presidential power in our history.
 For the last four years, a Republican Congress has done almost nothing to rein in the expansion of presidential power. This abdication of responsibility has been even more remarkable than the president's assumption of new powers. In recent months, though, Bush's relative unpopularity, as reflected in opinion polls, has emboldened Congress to take some steps toward reasserting its oversight role. In addition to the new anti-torture legislation, there is talk of requiring regular reports on secret detentions; and last month Congress nearly allowed the U.S.A. Patriot Act to lapse, granting only a five-week extension instead of the full renewal sought by the administration. Still, political logic dictates that, as long as Republicans control Congress, its oversight will be cautiously managed so as not to harm the party or the party's next presidential candidate. And even accounting for a legislative backlash, history suggests that the presidency ultimately emerges stronger after a president makes new claims of his constitutional authority.
 So what, if anything, should be done? If presidential power has been taken too far, who, if anyone, can impose limits on it?

II. WHAT THE COURT HAS DONE -- AND MAY DO
 The Supreme Court would seem to be the natural place to look for a restoration of the constitutional balance of powers. While Congress sat on its hands for most of the last five years, the court took on some of the most contentious problems of presidential power in a set of landmark decisions concerning detainees being held as enemy combatants. These cases were not just about civil liberties. They were also about the relative powers of Congress and the president under wartime conditions, and the court treated them as such. 
 The court's response to these crucial issues was to propose what is in effect a compromise between presidential power and Congressional authority. The most significant case concerned the detention of Yaser Esam Hamdi, an American citizen captured in Afghanistan and then held without trial in the United States. In June 2004, the court rejected the administration's view that it was authorized to arrest an enemy combatant anywhere and hold him indefinitely without trial. (The administration's argument was endorsed by Justice Clarence Thomas.) But the court also did not adopt the opposing view, expressed in a stinging dissent written by Justice Antonin Scalia, that an American citizen may not be detained without trial in the United States so long as the courts are open and Congress has not exercised its power to suspend the writ of habeas corpus.
 Instead, the court concluded -- over the disagreement of Justice David Souter -- that Congress had in fact authorized the detention of enemy combatants, including American citizens. Yet at the same time, the court held that a suspected enemy combatant must be afforded the basic right to due process: to be given notice of the accusation against him and an opportunity to rebut that accusation before ''a neutral decision maker.'' When push came to shove, however, the administration never gave Hamdi the hearing that the court promised him: he was ''released'' to Saudi Arabia without a hearing of any kind, on the condition that he renounce his United States citizenship.
 The court's opinion in Hamdi's case seemed to exert a gravitational pull on the status and rights of the detainees at Guantanamo Bay. In a parallel case, the court addressed the Guantanamo issue only to say that those detainees -- who are not United States citizens -- were covered by the legal right to seek habeas corpus. The administration argued that since Guantanamo was part of Cuba, the habeas corpus statute did not apply there. When the court rejected this argument, the administration seemed to draw the lesson that it had better provide some sort of hearings for the Guantanamo detainees, as the court required for Hamdi. The administration decided to give those detainees hearings before commissions made up of military officers for the limited purpose of deciding whether they were, in fact, enemies of the United States. Not surprisingly, almost all these hearings have resulted in continued detention: only 38 of the more than 500 detainees were found not to be enemy combatants
 Whatever their practical shortcomings, the court's decisions regarding Hamdi and the Guantanamo detainees still registered as a limitation on the unbridled presidential power that the administration asserted. But today, the Supreme Court that decided the detention cases is no more. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist has since died and been replaced by John G. Roberts Jr.; and Justice Sandra Day O'Connor has offered her resignation contingent on the confirmation of her successor. If Samuel Alito takes her place, he and Roberts could change the balance significantly.
 The change in the court's makeup is potentially significant, for the litigation of presidential power is just gathering steam. In addition to the likelihood that the court will hear a third prominent case concerning detention -- that of Jose Padilla, an American citizen arrested at O'Hare Airport in 2002 and then detained in the United States without trial -- it may well consider cases concerning the tapping of private conversations between terror suspects in the United States and persons abroad.
 The revelation that President Bush directed the National Security Agency to eavesdrop (and use data-mining technology) on such communications without seeking warrants has raised the question of whether the president had the power to do so. The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, prohibits surveillance of this sort without a special warrant, so the administration has proffered several other justifications of its policy. It has argued that when Congress authorized the president to use force after Sept. 11, it implicitly repealed FISA's ban on warrantless surveillance. And it has also maintained that the president had the inherent constitutional authority to intercept the communications of foreign powers and their agents -- regardless of whether Congress prohibited it. Reminiscent of the administration's position regarding torture, this argument relies upon the idea that the Constitution assigns certain foreign-affairs responsibilities to the president that exclude Congress from having any say in how he might exercise them.
 As with the use of torture, the use of secret intelligence outside of the ordinary legal process makes it difficult even to discover the violation, much less challenge it legally. But that does not mean that the issue will not come before the Supreme Court. Although you would imagine that prosecutors are not using secret evidence in criminal trials in which defendants could invoke their Fourth Amendment rights against unlawful search and seizure, defendants in terror trials are now asking courts to force the government to disclose whether such illegal surveillance occurred. Released detainees have already filed civil suits against the government charging torture, detentions and renditions to foreign countries by United States personnel. Such suits could now include claims for unlawful surveillance. Civil-liberties advocates will also bring challenges to the surveillance practices that the president has now acknowledged. And when a new administration is elected, it is not impossible that criminal prosecutions could be brought against the intelligence officials who illegally authorized the wiretaps.
 If the issue does reach the court by one or more of these avenues, there is good reason to suspect that both Roberts and Alito, should he be confirmed, will be operating under the influence of an expansive conception of presidential power. Both are products of a conservative movement that has provided the legal justifications for various aspects of the Bush revolution, and both held intensely political jobs in previous Republican administrations. Two decades ago, as a deputy assistant attorney general, Alito argued in a memo that the president should issue ''signing statements'' when approving legislation -- an effort to give the president influence over the courts' power to say what the laws mean. And Roberts, while serving as an appeals court judge, joined an opinion in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld upholding the military commissions being used to try Guantanamo detainees. The court held that the Geneva Convention does not, on its own, create a private right that can be litigated in the courts -- a position consistent with wide presidential authority but also conventional wisdom among United States courts dealing with treaty issues. (I submitted a friend-of the-court brief in that case on the right to confront witnesses and evidence.) Past experience does not, of course, necessarily determine a justice's views on the court. But given their profiles and clues from their writings, it is in any case extremely unlikely that the combination of Roberts and Alito would be less deferential to presidential power than the combination of O'Connor and Rehnquist.

III. HOW CONGRESS CAN REDEEM ITSELF
 Even if the Supreme Court were inclined to resist efforts to expand presidential power, the truth is that the court cannot do much to restore Congressional authority. We often imagine that the court serves as a sort of neutral umpire controlling the warring political branches. But this is mostly myth. The justices of the Supreme Court are themselves actors in the struggle for power, and when they intervene, they think carefully about how their decisions will affect the court's own legitimacy and authority. Even when the court weighs in on the side of Congress, it often elevates its own powers at Congress's expense. By the very act of interpreting existing laws and declaring something to be within Congress's power (and not the president's), the court affirms that it, not Congress, is the entity capable of making the president listen. Likewise, when Congress allows the court to resolve a power struggle between itself and the executive branch, it effectively concedes that it lacks the will to use its own arsenal of tools to pressure the president.
 Consider what happens when Congress actually tries to engage in oversight -- for instance, demanding that the president turn over documents concerning prewar intelligence about weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. The president refuses, citing ''executive privilege'' -- a term, by the way, absent in the text of the Constitution. What can Congress do when the president ignores its dictates? One option would be to stop cooperating with the presidential agenda on other issues. Another would be to suspend financing for some relevant program. Holding hearings would be a way to possibly broaden public awareness (though hearings are difficult to carry off without relevant documentation). The ultimate sanction, of course, would be to initiate impeachment proceedings. All of these approaches have costs, though. They would require coordinated action by the Congress and would draw public scrutiny to the issue. By going to the court and asking it to enforce a subpoena -- or better, waiting for public-interest groups to do so, as with Vice President Dick Cheney's energy advisory commission -- Congress avoids most of these costs.
 Once the Supreme Court hears a case involving the balance of powers, the situation actually becomes worse for Congress. The court may find for the president. And even if the court does find that Congress's powers trump those of the president, and the president complies with its ruling, the logical implication is that the president is listening to the court when he was not willing to listen to Congress. This concern was evident in Scalia's dissent in the Hamdi case, in which he asserted that an American citizen in his home country is always entitled to a judicial hearing justifying detention -- unless Congress suspends the writ of habeas corpus. To Scalia, the case was about Congress and the president: the former had not authorized the latter to detain citizens without a hearing. Yet far from functioning as a vote of confidence in Congress, Scalia's dissent made Congress look like the patsies that they had been throughout the Guantanamo detentions. Scalia was clearly angry at the president for violating a basic constitutional principle, to be sure. But his anger also reflected his frustration with Congress's reluctance to stand up for its rights.
 So how can Congress redeem itself? It could start by clarifying that, in authorizing the president to use force after Sept. 11, it did not mean to give him a blank check to violate existing laws without even telling Congress about the violations. Then it could pass new laws that leave no doubt that it intends to bind the president and his staff on matters relating, for example, to the conduct of war. Senator John McCain's torture bill, for instance, seeks to do just that. In the face of repeated presidential assertions that inhumane treatment does not count as torture and that the president cannot be constrained when it comes to interrogation, the law expressly prohibits cruel interrogation techniques.
 But laws that bind the president are, on their own, not enough. Congress must also create meaningful oversight programs with bite to make sure the laws on the books are actually obeyed. The recent proposed bill demanding regular reports from the director of national intelligence about detentions abroad is a step in this direction, but only a step. Without specific provisions stating the content of the testimony that the executive branch must provide, Congress is just asking for the president to elicit an opinion from his lawyers permitting him to ignore the law and then to violate the law secretly. Lest that seem far-fetched, recall that such memos were in fact elicited in the war on terror, and that the violations of our anti-torture laws that took place (according to any reasonable reading of those laws) occurred in facilities whose very existence was classified as a matter of national security. Indeed, even McCain's bill, which prohibits ''cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment,'' could be gutted in practice by an interpretation limiting the meaning of those terms so as to permit existing interrogation techniques.
 The chief advantage of oversight hearings is that officials must appear and testify under oath as to what the administration is in fact doing. A lie to a Congressional committee constitutes perjury. Disillusioning as it may be to admit, the threat of prison is probably the only sanction that can reliably assure that executive-branch officials, protected by secrecy laws and presidential orders that may themselves be classified, will come clean about what is going on in the war on terror. Even the most conscientious officials may make ambiguous statements that disclose only part of the truth, and that misleadingly -- as when Condoleezza Rice answered questions about rendition and torture at a press conference in Ukraine in December.
 Beyond oversight, a newly assertive Congress would also have to create ways to sanction the president if laws were violated. Ordinary criminal prosecution will rarely do the trick, since Congress cannot expect the president to initiate proceedings against himself or his employees for violating a law that he thinks is unconstitutional. The steps for enforcement should therefore come in part, at least, from Congress itself, which could specify upfront, for instance, that if a president were to violate the law, Congress would withdraw financing from certain programs or initiate impeachment proceedings.
 With midterm elections coming in the fall, and the president's popularity having fallen, Congress may already be gearing up to take some such steps, as with the request for regular reporting on detention and Iraq and McCain's torture bill. A future Congress controlled by the Democrats would doubtless do much more. But the War Powers Act of 1973 provides a cautionary tale. Without strong and credible evidence that Congress will follow through, the laws Congress passes to limit the president can enter constitutional limbo, their status unknown and their effect uncertain.
 The Supreme Court can do little to help Congress along this path, but the court could make the work of restoration harder for Congress were it to rule in favor of the Bush administration's theories of executive power. The judicial approval of an inherent executive power to torture or eavesdrop, laws to the contrary notwithstanding, would be a huge blow to Congress.
 The allocation of power within the government is not determined simply by reading the Constitution and figuring out what it says. To the contrary, the balance of powers is established through a game of give and take, a struggle in which each branch fends for itself. An excellent example is the Supreme Court's ruling in Bush v. Gore. The important fact about that decision was not that in assuring President Bush's election, it inaugurated a period of single-party government. It was, rather, that the court deliberately chose to intervene in a process laid out in the Constitution for dealing with electoral disputes -- a process according to which Congress, not the court, was given the power to choose the president. Bush would likely have ended up president in either case; but once the court wrested from Congress the constitutional power to decide who won, few in Congress seriously disputed the legitimacy of its actions. The court had spoken, and its decision was treated as final. 
 The lesson for the balance of powers is a deep one: the prize of power goes to the bold. Right now, the presidency and its supporters have the upper hand. For Congress to regain some of its constitutional prominence, the court will have to keep a level head, and the representatives themselves will have to be willing to take some chances. Such an effort need not be restricted to national security issues -- it would be nice if Congress also took more responsibility for making many of the hard domestic policy choices that it currently leaves to administrative agencies. But the national security problem is more pressing, and for the moment it offers Congress the best chance to redeem itself from its recent inaction.
 It is customary, when making a plea on behalf of Congress, to give the legislature special consideration because it is the branch originally designed to represent the people. But this is not wholly justified: after all, nowadays the people directly elect the president, and the politicization of Supreme Court nominations ensures a fair amount of popular input into the composition of the court. It is also not certain that a rejuvenated Congress would be more effective in supervising the president than the Supreme Court. The real reason, then, to hope that Congress will resurrect its lost powers is that the balance of powers remains, as the framers thought, the best guarantor of liberty in a constitutional government. The basic fact of presidential power is now irreversible. No one denies that a strong executive is needed to respond to the threat of terrorism. But this just means that the presidency requires greater vigilance than ever to prevent violations of liberty. 
 No court alone can do the job of protecting liberty from the exercise of executive power. For that most important of tasks, the people's elected representatives need to be actively involved. When we let them abdicate this role, the violations start to multiply, and we get the secret surveillance and the classified renditions and the unnamed torture that we all recognize as un-American. Our Constitution has changed enormously over the last two centuries, and it is sure to change much more in the future. Just how it changes, though, is up to us.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Lanny Sommese)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); WIRETAPPING (72%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (65%); AIR QUALITY (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); DISASTER RELIEF (50%) United States Politics and Government; Congress (Relations With Executive) ; Presidents and Presidency (US); United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US); Congress (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (57%) George W (Pres) Bush; Noah Feldman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



180 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Seven Israelis to Watch In the Political Turmoil

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
The stroke that felled Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, leader of Israel's coalition government last week, shuffled the deck of Israeli politics with a turbulence unmatched in many years. A country led by one dominant figure since March 2001 suddenly has an assortment of figures contesting for its leadership, its soul and the direction it will take as it seeks a new approach to almost 60 years of conflict with the Palestinians. 
 A key question is the future of the centrist party, Kadima, which Mr. Sharon created out of whole cloth when he bolted a Likud Party bridling at his disengagement from Gaza. Kadima has been drawing figures from the left like Shimon Peres and from the right like Shaul Mofaz to run in the spring elections. Even with Mr. Sharon at the helm, it had little chance of leading a government without coalition partners, probably from Labor and smaller parties. Now it is unclear if the acting prime minister, Ehud Olmert, can hold Kadima together. At the very least, Mr. Sharon's absence has opened whole new avenues of political opportunity for a field filled with seasoned in-fighters.
The next watershed will be the parliamentary elections scheduled for March 28. As that date nears, here are the major players, their parties and the sentiments of ordinary Israelis as expressed in polls. JOSEPH BERGER


CORRECTION-DATE: January 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 8 about major figures in the power struggle in Israel after Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's stroke misstated a position once held by Benjamin Netanyahu, a former prime minister and the leader of the Likud Party. He served as ambassador to the United Nations, not to the United States.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: ON THE LEFT: LABORAmir Peretz, 53, Moroccanborn leader of Labor who put a Sephardic face on what had been an Ashkenazic party. As chairman of Israel's powerful union confederation, which is also the country's largest employer, he brings an almost socialist ideology to governing, supporting higher minimum wages and other wealth equalization measures. His views on peace are dovish, including favoring the return of almost the entire West Bank. But he has never been a cabinet minister and is considered inexperienced in matters of national security, the bedrock issue for voters.Ehud Barak, 63, former prime minister who gambled his career on a Camp David peace agreement with Yasir Arafat and lost. Israel's most decorated war hero and the planner of the Entebbe rescue, he would bring military credentials to a government headed by Peretz. Then, if Peretz stumbled, either in the election or in negotiations for a coalition government, he could pick up the pieces. But he would have to finesse any plans for returning territory to the Palestinians, since his position is seen as closer to Kadima than to Labor.IN THE CENTER: KADIMAEhud Olmert, 60, acting prime minister and favored heir of Ariel Sharon. As a leader of hard-line Likud, he floated a trial balloon on disengagement from Gaza that Sharon accomplished. Then, when Likud members revolted, he left with Sharon to form Kadima. He has held ministries of health, trade and finance, but is brash and has never been as personally popular with Israelis as Sharon. If elected prime minister, he is expected to push for further handover of West Bank territory, unilaterally if the Palestinians refuse to negotiate.Tzipi Livni, 47, a lawyer and justice minister, she is nominally second to Olmert in the murky Kadima hierarchy but may be the most popular politician in Israel today. Soft-spoken yet candid, she brings the prestige of four years in the Mossad and a generally effective job as minister, but is regarded as too unseasoned for the prime minister's brass ring. A Likudnik by philosophy, she supported Sharon's disengagement and helped steer it through the Knesset. Thus she is likely to support more turnover of West Bank territory toward a Palestinian state.Shimon Peres, 82, twice prime minister, though never by election. His departure from Labor to support Sharon's new approach to the Palestinians gave Kadima a broader appeal. Now Kadima is wooing him to stay and Labor to return. He could be No. 2 to Peretz, but some feel he is bitter that Peretz challenged him after Peres brought the younger man into the party's leadership. Once a protege of David Ben-Gurion and Moshe Dayan, he has unmatched seasoning in government, but his public support has never been ardent and now some consider him too old.ON THE RIGHT: LIKUDBenjamin Netanyahu, 56, former prime minister and ambassador to the United States who emerged as Likud's leader after discontent with the Gaza pullout. His success in the Sharon government in turning around the debt-plagued Israeli economy earned him high marks even as recipients of shrunken social programs fumed. He's a master of the sound bite, but seen as too flagrantly ambitious and heartless on social issues. Unlike Sharon, he refuses to give away territory unilaterally, arguing that the Palestinians need to give to get.THE RELIGIOUS: SHASEliyahu Yishai, 43, chairman of Shas. This party of Orthodox Sephardim can claim about a dozen Knesset seats in any election and thus is perennially wooed by the bigger parties as a coalition partner. The price for joining has always been sustaining Orthodox control of such functions as marriage and divorce and support for generous social payments for Shas's poor constituency. But the party's views on Palestinian matters have been relatively pliable. In exchange for his swing votes, he served as a minister of social affairs under Barak and as minister of interior under Sharon.The PartiesThe Israeli Parliament, the Knesset, has 120 seats
15 factions are represented in the current session (Kadima is not
 it is too new). Although Likud and Labor are the dominant parties, other factions hold 60 percent of its seats. Figures as of Jan. 4.The Labor faction has 21 seats and leads the second-largest bloc.Kadima was expected to win as many as 42 seats in the March election.The Likud faction has 27 seats and leads the largest bloc.Shas has 11 seats.Other parties, including Shinui (a secular party), United Torah Judaism, and the National Religious Party, make up more than a third of the Parliament.Achrayut Leumit, a 14-member group including Sharon, Olmert and Livni, recently split off from Likud.Israeli Public AttitudesFrom polls conducted last year by the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.In September, half of the Israeli public believed that in the coming years the number of settlements in the West Bank would decrease.EXPECT DECREASE: 50%EXPECT INCREASE: 19%In December, more than half supported dismantling most settlements in the occupied territories as part of a peace agreement with Palestinians.SUPPORT DISMANTLING: 61%In December, more than half opposed a compromise in which East Jerusalem would become the Palestinian capital and West Jerusalem would be the Israeli capital.OPPOSE DIVIDING CITY: 60%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (94%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%) Politics and Government; Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments

ORGANIZATION: KADIMA (94%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (92%); SHIMON PERES (90%); EHUD BARAK (90%); TZIPORA LIVNI (79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (73%) Joseph Berger; Ariel (Prime Min) Sharon; Amir Peretz; Ehud Barak; Ehud Olmert; Tzipi (Min) Livni; Shimon Peres; Benjamin Netanyahu; Eli (Min) Yishai

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



181 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: Wimps, Cowards And 'Petrolist States'

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Bravo, Thomas L. Friedman, for saying so simply and so clearly why this country needs to become energy-efficient and independent (''The New Red, White and Blue,'' column, Jan. 6). It is no longer just an option, but a political and economic necessity for this nation to radically change its energy policies in order to survive as a world power and promote the ideals of democracy that the current administration constantly trumpets. 
Given sufficient encouragement through tax incentives and other means, I have no doubt that the American public will finally see the national interest, as well as its own economic interest, in energy efficiency and conservation. The increasing sales of hybrid vehicles are just one early indicator of that. Congress and the Oval Office should either lead in establishing such new energy policies, or get out of the way.

Charles W. Stotter
Westfield, N.J., Jan. 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAX LAW (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (54%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (52%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Energy Efficiency

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (88%) Charles W Stotter; Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



182 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1983 words

HEADLINE: With Sharon Ill, Palestinians Face Own Travails

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
The sudden political disappearance of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, struggling for life after a massive stroke, has thrown the future of any peace process with the Palestinians into question. But the Palestinian Authority itself is in such disarray that it may be incapable of negotiating on terms any Israeli leader could accept. 
 There is spreading chaos, a sense of deterioration and growing concern among both Palestinians and Israelis that the Palestinian Authority, nearly bankrupt and facing a huge budget deficit, may look like a failed state even before it becomes one.
 Life for ordinary Palestinians is becoming harder, with less security and optimism than a year ago. The Israelis pulled out of Gaza -- a thrilling moment for many Palestinians -- but the territory has become practically lawless, not a model for a future state, and Palestinian voters seem set to punish the divided Fatah movement that monopolizes the Palestinian Authority. 
 Legislative elections on Jan. 25 are expected to bring the radical Islamic group Hamas, dedicated to a continuing armed struggle against Israeli occupation, into a significant share of power in the authority.
 ''All the chaos is coming from inside the Palestinian Authority and Fatah,'' said Khaled Duzdar, a Palestinian analyst at the Israel/Palestine Center for Research and Information. ''Fatah almost seems to be working on behalf of Hamas. This is the lowest the Palestinian Authority has reached.''
 The splitting of the main Palestinian faction Fatah and the participation of Hamas and its militants in the authority are serious questions that any new Israeli leader will have to confront right away.
 By itself, the victory of Hamas or its achievement of a blocking minority within the authority could be enough to put an end to the long-moribund ''road map,'' the peace plan drafted and endorsed by the United States, as well as the Israelis and the Palestinians. Hamas is committed to keeping its armed wing and its weapons, and says it is running in this campaign ''to protect the resistance.'' One of the road map's first requirements is that the authority disarm all militants, including Hamas, Islamic Jihad and Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades, which is affiliated with Fatah itself.
 The Palestinian Authority's president, Mahmoud Abbas, has promised Israel and Washington to disarm the militants after the elections, but no American or Israeli policy maker or intelligence analyst interviewed over the last two months believes that he will be able to do so, and most think he is unlikely even to try.
 So, outside of considerations of Israeli leadership, progress toward peace seems unlikely. That can only add to the Israeli inclination to sit tight and manage the current situation while continuing unilateral disengagement from the Palestinians, like the construction of the separation barrier.
 ''We have an ailing prime minister and the Palestinians have an ailing Authority, and both are on life support,'' said a senior Israeli intelligence officer, who could not be identified because of the nature of his work. ''We have never been through such a period of anarchy in the Palestinian Authority. As far as security is concerned, the Authority is nominal -- anyone in the territories does what they please.''
 In Gaza City recently, Ahmad el-Balawi, 20, said he had turned to Hamas from Fatah because of the corruption of the authority, the lack of jobs and the deterioration of ordinary life. ''We are Muslims, and we need change,'' he said at his father's toy shop festooned with plastic guns. ''We've had experience with Fatah, unfortunately.''
 Bashir el-Balawi, 46, his father, said: ''The majority of them are Hamas now. It's because of the current situation, with no jobs and no safety and the corruption.'' Asked why he sells so many toy rifles, he threw up his hands. ''The kids have fallen in love with weapons, it's just weapons they want, no other toys, they think they will fight against Israel.'' Does that depress him? ''Not really,'' he said. ''They want to feel powerful and free.''
 There are problems for Israel's interim leadership, too. Mr. Abbas has promised Hamas that the elections will not be postponed, but he has also said that if Israel will not allow Palestinians to vote in East Jerusalem, annexed by Israel after the 1967 war, the elections would be impossible. Israel does not want to be blamed for postponing the elections, especially since the Bush administration has called for them to go ahead.
 Mr. Sharon had the stature to stand up to Washington on this issue, if he chose. It may be a harder choice for the acting prime minister, Ehud Olmert, whose performance will be watched closely by Israeli voters. He may want to show his independence from Washington and make a symbolic stand against Hamas participation by banning voting in East Jerusalem, but he would do that only if Mr. Abbas privately wanted him to.
 The Palestinian Authority is in deep financial trouble regardless of how the elections proceed. It is spending almost its entire yearly revenue of some $1 billion on salaries, which were recently raised despite cries of alarm from donor countries and the World Bank. According to the authority's former finance minister, Salam Fayad, who quit in protest to run for election, it is essentially out of money, and unable to raise more funds from banks. 
 Donor countries at an aid meeting in London in mid-December refused to release a semiannual $60 million in aid because, said Nigel Roberts, the regional director of the World Bank, the Palestinians had broken their commitments to fiscal responsibility. ''The Palestinian Authority is in imminent functional bankruptcy,'' Mr. Roberts said. ''In any given month now, they might find themselves unable to pay their basic salaries and minimal operational costs.''
 In 2006, the Palestinian Authority is facing a deficit of about $900 million. It can hope for about $300 million to $350 million in additional funds from the Arab world and donor countries this year -- presuming that they can work out another restructuring program with an authority run or dominated by Hamas. But even that would leave a net deficit of around $600 million.
 The combination of the security chaos in Gaza and in large parts of the West Bank, the involvement of Hamas and the accumulated troubles of the Palestinian Authority is likely to drive off foreign investors, Mr. Roberts said. Yet it is only investment and job creation that can offer enough jobs for the growing population of young men.
 Overall Palestinian unemployment is about 23 percent, but some 75 percent of young men from 16 to 25 years old in refugee camps are unemployed. Hiring some of them into the security services, which Mr. Abbas has done, makes political sense. The checkpoints and the barrier cost the Palestinian economy about 5 percent real growth every year, Mr. Roberts said. That is a major toll, given that 10 percent real growth would be needed to solve the unemployment problem. 
 In 1999, before this intifada and the Israeli response, the Palestinian Authority had a balanced budget and needed no outside support. Now, even though revenues have recovered to where they were in 1999, the deficit has ballooned. ''You can't hire all these people and then increase their wages, that's what's broken the bank,'' Mr. Roberts said. ''The salary bill is so high in relation to resources there are only two options, and both are unsavory. They have to cut salaries or cut staff.''
 Maj. Gen. Aharon Zeevi-Farkash, the departing director of Israeli military intelligence, said bluntly, ''We are facing a real revolution in the Palestinian Authority.'' The clash of generations -- the older group like Mr. Abbas, who went into exile with the late Yasir Arafat; the middle generation like Mahmoud Dahlan and Marwan Barghouti, who grew up under occupation; and the young generation of gunmen empowered by five years of armed conflict -- is pulling Fatah apart, he said.
 Fatah's divisions are accelerated by a reputation for corruption, arrogance and cronyism, and an inability -- despite 70,000 men listed as part of the official Palestinian security services -- to provide law and order. This has been fertile ground for Hamas, which is running under the slogan ''Change and Reform.'' 
 Khalil Shikaki, director of the Palestinian Center for Policy and Survey Research, the most respected polling agency in the territories, said, ''There is tremendous fragmentation evident in Fatah, with Fatah candidates competing with each other and the Fatah leadership impotent in stopping it.''
 Hamas, he said, ''wants to win and is running like it wants to win,'' partly to resolve an old battle with the secular Fatah, partly ''as a defeat for the accommodationists who want peace with Israel and follow the American lead, and partly as a victory for Islam everywhere.''
 Hamas wants to respond to demands for reform in the Palestinian Authority, Mr. Shikaki said. ''Hamas wants to rise to the challenge. They've built a tremendous constituency and need to deliver.'' 
 But on the issue of Israel, neither Mr. Shikaki nor Mr. Duzdar, the Palestinian analyst, thinks Hamas will change its spots. ''Anyone who thinks Hamas will become pragmatic if they win and it will be easier to settle the conflict is unrealistic,'' Mr. Duzdar said. ''Hamas will never shift or change its charter or agenda. They want to have an impact on the Palestinian Authority from the inside, to be a tough opposition within the legislature and maybe cripple Abu Mazen and the Palestinian Authority in future negotiations,'' he said, referring to Mr. Abbas.
 The Israeli intelligence officer said: ''Hamas wants Israel gone and they want to keep the means of terror. Yet they are allowed into the political process by those who believe that afterwards, for some unknown reason, Hamas will change its soul or that Abu Mazen can deal with them. Hamas wants to enter the Palestinian Authority to promote its goals, not to change them.''
 Mr. Shikaki's latest poll, which incorporates constituency voting as well as votes for party lists, indicates that Fatah should win half the 132 seats at stake, with Hamas winning some 39 percent of them. About 14 seats will go to independents, some of them Hamas supporters, he said.
 Mr. Duzdar and the senior Israeli intelligence officer say they think Hamas will do better than Mr. Shikaki's polls indicate and will get 45 percent or more of the seats -- if the election is allowed to proceed. Senior Fatah members do not want to hand over so much power to Hamas, and there is a wide expectation that election day could be violent.
 Israel and its policies in the occupied territories are partly to blame for Mr. Abbas's troubles, Mr. Shikaki said. ''Israel could have helped him more,'' he said. ''He did after all put the cease-fire in place. Wasn't this sufficient for Israelis to take more risks? To remove checkpoints, ease the economy, dismantle illegal outposts, freeze settlements, help Abu Mazen rebuild the security forces? But Israelis decided to take as little risk as possible.''
 Mr. Abbas showed little resolve himself, Mr. Shikaki admits, and embraced the old Fatah bosses rather than bringing along the next generation. ''Israel certainly shares some responsibility and blame,'' Mr. Duzdar said. ''But after they withdrew from Gaza, there is no reason for the Palestinian Authority to blame Israel for failing to provide law and order there.''
 Mr. Shikaki said: ''If I were Israeli, I'd be very, very worried watching the rise of Hamas and the fragmentation of Fatah. It limits Israel's options in the West Bank in a big way. Even the simple task of unilateral withdrawal would be a nightmare without Fatah and a reliable Palestinian partner. With Hamas in control, unilateral withdrawals from the West Bank would be seen as a victory for Hamas.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Unemployed Palestinians recently attended a demonstration in Gaza City demanding jobs. The overall unemployment rate is about 23 percent. (Photo by Mohammed Salem/Reuters)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); AL FATAH (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); RELIGION (88%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (56%); BUDGETS (56%) PALESTINIANS; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (84%) HAMAS (ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENT)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (57%) STEVEN ERLANGER; ARIEL (PRIME MIN) SHARON; EHUD (ACTING PRIME MIN) OLMERT; MAHMOUD ABBAS

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (93%) ISRAEL; GAZA STRIP; ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



183 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: In Supreme Court Confirmation Hearings, Test for Democrats as Well as Alito

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
The showdown begins Monday at high noon. 
 Even before Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. arrives on Capitol Hill for his Supreme Court confirmation hearings, Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee appear lined up solidly against him. The big question is whether they will try to block the nomination by filibuster, and if so, which side will be left standing when the political dust settles.
For Judge Alito, the son of an Italian immigrant who grew up in the New Jersey suburbs with a dream of being a major league baseball pitcher, the hearings are a hurdle between him and an even bigger dream.
 After months of meeting senators privately and staying mum before the press, the hearings will provide him with a forum to emerge from the shadow of the previous nominee, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. 
 The hearings, expected to last four days or more, will also give Judge Alito his first opportunity to confront Democratic critics, who plan to spotlight the issue of domestic spying as much as abortion. How he answers their questions, on topics like his 1985 statement that the Constitution does not protect a right to abortion, will determine whether Democrats try to keep him from the job.
 The Democrats, hoping to pick up seats in this year's midterm elections, have almost as much at stake as the nominee himself. They are under intense pressure from liberal advocacy groups to oppose Judge Alito, and they are acutely aware that if he is confirmed to succeed Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, a critical swing vote, he could tilt American jurisprudence in a more conservative direction for decades. 
 Yet a filibuster would be risky business, and Democrats know it.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat and a member of the Judiciary Committee, said there was a consensus among Democrats that although ''it's hard to block a nominee, blocking this nominee is a possibility.'' But Mr. Schumer said no decision would be made until the hearings were over.
 ''Because he has had some very strong statements, he is under an obligation to accept or refute those, and if he just tries to avoid them the assumption will be made that he still believes them. That puts him in a difficult position,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''On the other hand, blocking a nominee is a big deal. So who knows? Everyone's waiting.''
 The hearings before the 18-member Judiciary Committee -- 10 Republicans and 8 Democrats -- will unfold against a political landscape that is vastly changed since last fall, when Chief Justice Roberts was confirmed by a Senate vote of 78 to 22. 
 Washington today is consumed with the revelation that President Bush authorized the National Security Agency to eavesdrop on Americans, and the issue of domestic spying will be a prominent feature of the Alito hearings, perhaps as much so as abortion.
 For Mr. Bush, who needs the kind of victory on Capitol Hill that an Alito confirmation could provide, the hearings may offer a welcome distraction from the troubles of the Republican Party, which has been buffeted by criticism over the economy, the war in Iraq, the domestic spying program, the Jack Abramoff scandal and, on Saturday, the decision by Representative Tom DeLay to step down permanently as House majority leader.
 Norman Ornstein, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute who studies Congress, said Mr. Bush would benefit from a ''sharp-edged ideological battle'' over Judge Alito. ''He wants something that rallies his base with more enthusiasm,'' Mr. Ornstein said.
 And nothing rallies the bases of both parties like the issue of judges. For conservatives, who have fought for decades to curb what they regard as the liberal activism of the judiciary, the Alito nomination is a sweet reward. For liberals, it is terrifying.
 Republicans, outside observers like Mr. Ornstein and even some Democrats say the odds are in favor of Judge Alito, unless he performs badly or a bombshell is dropped. Yet if history is any guide, there are no guarantees. 
 ''It's amazing how often the conventional wisdom in this town is wrong,'' said Ralph Neas, president of People for the American Way, a liberal advocacy group that led the opposition to the 1987 nomination of Robert Bork and is leading the opposition to Judge Alito. ''Going into the Bork hearings, Bork was favored to win confirmation. He was decisively rejected, 58 to 42.''
 Though no Democrats have announced how they will vote, it is clear that Judge Alito will attract even less support from them than Judge Roberts did. On the Judiciary Committee, three Democrats -- Senators Russell D. Feingold and Herb Kohl of Wisconsin and Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the panel's senior Democrat -- voted to confirm Chief Justice Roberts.
 In a recent interview, Mr. Leahy made clear that he was far less comfortable with Judge Alito.
 ''Judge Alito, who are you?'' Senator Leahy said in mock conversation with the nominee, after explaining that he spent nearly three hours with Chief Justice Roberts before his hearings but had had only one brief meeting with Judge Alito. ''You're going to be on there, taking the seat of the one person who has demonstrated that she's willing to be a swing vote. To what extent are you willing to show the same kind of independence?''
 But the polls work in Judge Alito's favor; they have found that a majority of Americans support his confirmation. The midterm elections could also help his chances, because Democrats facing re-election in Republican-leaning states will be loath to oppose the nomination or join a filibuster. With 44 Democrats and one independent in the Senate, and 41 votes required to sustain a filibuster, the margins are slim.
 At the same time, the Senate has already fought a filibuster battle. Last year, when Democrats were blocking some of President Bush's judicial nominees, the Republican leadership threatened to change Senate rules to bar filibusters of judges. Democrats, in turn, threatened to grind business to a halt. A meltdown was averted when a group of seven Democrats and seven Republicans signed a pact saying they would filibuster judicial nominees only under ''extraordinary circumstances.''
 Republicans say they expect that pact to hold.
 ''I really have some doubts, now that everyone has backed away from the table and taken their guns away, whether there is sufficient support of a filibuster, particularly in light of this nominee and his qualifications,'' said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas.
 And even some Democrats argue privately that a filibuster fight would not be worth it. They say the party should focus on issues that resonate more strongly with voters. To that end, Democrats intend to use the Alito hearings to put a spotlight on domestic spying. 
 A string of Democratic senators, including Mr. Schumer, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Feingold and Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, have signaled their intention to question Judge Alito on the spying issue. They will try to draw a link between the program and a 1984 memo in which Judge Alito, then a lawyer for the Reagan administration, argued that the attorney general should be immune from lawsuits for ordering wiretaps without a court order.
 ''There is no question that the question of executive powers in time of war, in the context of the terrorist threat, will be central to the Alito hearings,'' Mr. Feingold said, adding, ''I would be surprised if it wasn't one of the most important topics.''
 On that score, Democrats will get a boost from the Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, who intends to hold hearings on the domestic spying program and who intends to question Judge Alito about whether Congress should have been informed. 
 But Mr. Specter, an ardent supporter of abortion rights, said in an interview that the spying issue will be second on his agenda; as was the case with the Roberts hearings, the chairman will raise his first questions about abortion.
 ''I intend to begin the hearing with the question of his 1985 statement that the Constitution does not protect the right to abortion,'' Mr. Specter said, adding, ''I think in the popular mind, the woman's right to choose is still the dominant issue.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 19, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 8 about Democratic opposition to Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr.'s nomination to the Supreme Court referred incorrectly to the results of several national polls on Americans' attitudes toward his confirmation. Only one major poll -- not all -- showed a majority supporting his confirmation.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Charles E. Schumer working on a speech about the hearings.
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy talking to reporters last week about the hearings for Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. (Photographs by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILIBUSTER (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); POLITICS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (83%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); BASEBALL (70%); WIRETAPPING (61%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (61%); TERRORISM (59%) WIRETAPPING AND OTHER EAVESDROPPING DEVICES AND METHODS; SURVEILLANCE OF CITIZENS BY GOVERNMENT; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRIVACY; ABORTION; FILIBUSTERS AND DEBATE CURBS; ELECTION ISSUES ; TERRORISM

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%) SUPREME COURT (US) ; NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY; SUPREME COURT (US) 

PERSON: SAMUEL ALITO (93%); CHARLES SCHUMER (89%); TED KENNEDY (58%); JOHN ROBERTS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; SAMUEL A JR (JUDGE) ALITO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



184 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; CONTINUING ED; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: . . . It's How You Say It

BYLINE: By Campbell Robertson. 
Campbell Robertson is a reporter for The Metro Section of The Times.

 BODY:
DONALD TRUMP'S name came up within the first five minutes, which is not surprising. The publicity around his $1.5 million fee for a speech at a Learning Annex Real Estate Wealth Expo was probably the best advertisement for this night's event: a two-hour workshop on how to become a Learning Annex speaker. 
 The $19.95 workshop, in the ballroom at the New Yorker Hotel, is a bit of a feint; it is actually a promotion for a daylong seminar that costs $395. There, in turn, attendees are told about another, three-day seminar, which costs $2,995 and covers the real nuts and bolts of conducting a class. If the price tag seems steep, the Learning Annex portrays the continuing series of classes, which it calls the Speakers Academy, as the starting point for a change to a lucrative career as a professional speaker. 
A pioneer of continuing education, the Learning Annex might not have coined the word, but it certainly helped popularize the idea of ''edutainment.'' Founded in 1980, it now has centers in nine cities in the United States and Canada, offering 9,000 classes a year. With its celebrity instructors, its catalogs in street-corner boxes and occasional appearances as a plot point in television shows like ''Sex and the City'' and ''Six Feet Under,'' the Learning Annex has seeped into the popular consciousness. The Speakers Academy study kit, for example, bears a sticker: ''As Seen on 'The Apprentice.' '' 
 Though the Annex is most famous for one-time seminars featuring the likes of Henry A. Kissinger, Kurt Vonnegut Jr. and the Gastineau Girls, about 60 percent of the 1,500 instructors last year were recurring speakers, says Harry Javer, national program director. Subjects include ''How to Be a $1,000-a-Day Consultant,'' ''Start Your Own Internet Mail-Order Biz'' and ''Put Your Real Estate Investments on Steroids,'' a new class taught by a graduate of the Speakers Academy. Classes generally last several hours on a single night and cost $19.95 to hundreds of dollars. Beginning teachers are usually paid 10 percent of the proceeds from their classes. 
 Getting into the catalog is difficult; the Annex receives 4,000 class proposals a year, and about 300 of them are accepted, Mr. Javer says. So the Speakers Academy is a bald lesson in market economics. Those who take the $395 seminar are guaranteed that their proposals will receive prompt consideration and a response. Those who plunk down $3,000 get the opportunity to teach at least one Learning Annex seminar.
 ''It's just brilliant, because it does everything we need,'' says William Zanker, president and creator of the Learning Annex. That is, the academy supplies the Annex with a larger pool of applicants as well as the money from everyone who takes the classes on being an instructor. 
 The Annex will not say how many students have participated; the speakers' program began in July in New York and is being rolled out nationwide. Twenty graduates are now teaching -- or scheduled to teach -- classes. 
 While the reason for a seminar taught by the Gastineau Girls, the mother and daughter reality-TV duo, may be elusive (they promise in the catalog to talk ''about looking absolutely glamorous and attracting the most eligible men''), their name draws audiences. So the main concern for many of the academy students is, without celebrated credentials, how does one succeed as a Learning Annex teacher, much less a professional lecturer?
 ''Credentials, schmedentials,'' Jim Fortin, an instructor of the one-day seminar, tells a potential student. 
 A successful Learning Annex proposal, the academy contends, is a matter of seeing what's currently popular, relating that to one's own area of expertise, putting together a lively presentation with famous quotes and statistics and, perhaps most important, coming up with an arresting course title. The one-day seminar is, in fact, dedicated almost exclusively to developing the proposal: the segment ''Choosing a Marketable Topic'' is twice as long as the segments on researching a topic and writing a presentation.
 The three-day program spends more time covering the finer points of public speaking, devoting most of the first day to subjects like diction and voice, then moving on to business planning: how to advertise, how to write pitch letters, how to get an agent, how to sell products like books and DVD's, how to ''package yourself.'' 
 ''We spend a lot of the program's time prepping them to launch a career outside the Learning Annex,'' says Joseph Grano, an instructor.
 For those who are interested solely in becoming better public speakers, there are courses at the continuing education arms of New York University, Columbia and the New School that last 6 to 10 weeks and cost from $600 for noncredit courses to $3,000 for credited courses. Instructors there say most of their students are taking the classes to move ahead in their careers.
 Learning Annex students, however, are trying to take the knowledge they have gained in their careers and leverage it into something else, usually hoping for a fatter paycheck.
 But being a professional speaker is not as simple as the pitch leads one to believe.
 ''It's a business and profession like any other,'' says Mark LeBlanc, chairman of the Academy for Professional Speaking, which is run by the National Speakers Association, a trade group. ''There can be monetary rewards and sometimes great ones, but it's not the easy way to riches that some people think.''
 Of 845 professional speakers who answered a survey by the association last spring, 539 reported making less than $100,000 from speaking-related activities in 2004. Almost a quarter earned $25,000 or less.
 Mr. LeBlanc's academy, involving one daylong seminar and conference calls twice a month over a year, costs $495 and is partly intended for aspiring speakers who do not yet meet the association's membership requirements, like having made $25,000 in annual speaking fees. Professional speakers, Mr. LeBlanc explains, run the gamut from comedians to experts to good talkers who are handed speeches to deliver, mostly to corporate audiences.
 The ideal student of the Learning Annex Speakers Academy is probably someone like Robert Feferman, a Manhattan psychotherapist who has been trying to start a private practice but is not sure how to attract clients. He and a colleague decided that teaching a course would be a good marketing tool, with the potential for paid speaking engagements a bonus. 
 Mr. Feferman, who took the two-hour introductory seminar, says he was already comfortable speaking to groups; it was the marketing knowledge he lacked. For that, he adds, the success of the Speakers Academy speaks for itself.
 ''I paid $19.95 to hear about another class that I could enter for $395,'' he says. ''In terms of marketing, they know what they're doing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: OH, TO TEACH A LEARNING ANNEX CLASS -- The Speakers Academy is supposed to turn regular people into Learning Annex speakers. Past talkers: Donald Trump, above. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); CELEBRITIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (66%) Education and Schools; Special Sections; Adult Education; Company and Organization Profiles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: Learning Annex (Co)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (89%) Campbell Robertson

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006



185 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Europe Comes to Terms With Need for Russian Gas

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
President Vladimir V. Putin's decision to switch off Russia's natural gas spigot to Ukraine on New Year's Day is being widely judged a ham-handed miscalculation, because in the end it only proved how much Europe was prepared to help an independent-minded Ukraine resist Russian bullying. But realists here argue that Europe needs to draw some lessons as well.
 There is plenty of evidence that Mr. Putin overplayed his hand and was humiliated when Europe forced him to turn the gas back on. He underestimated Ukraine's leverage as the primary conduit for Russian gas exports to Europe, and Europe's influence as the major consumer of Russian gas. He also misjudged how much his decision would erode the confidence Germany, France, Italy and other countries had in Russia's trustworthiness as a supplier. 
But now that the gas is flowing again -- under a tenuous new deal on pricing in which Ukraine and Russia each gave a little ground -- the experts are saying another lesson is becoming clear. 
 Since Europe, they say, still has no alternative to Russia's gas, it must learn to live with Russia's peculiar habits as a political and commercial partner.
 Despite its demise as a superpower, Russia is not content to be an economic player that follows the West's lead in political matters. It insists on acting like a global power with a mind of its own, and it views its natural resources as a tool for furthering its political goals -- perhaps its last best tool, now that its military and its decrepit industrial base have proved so poorly matched to the West's. 
 ''Europe has to recalibrate itself, not to the idea of a growing, democratic Russia, but to a Russia that is behaving according to its sense of its national interests,'' said John C. Kornblum, a former American ambassador to Germany who is now a banker in Berlin. ''It is not concerned about winning prizes in the West.''
 That does not mean giving in to Russian threats. It means expecting Russia to put political spin on an economic policy, and being ready to resist, if necessary. It also means that Europe should feel free to link politics to its own economic bargaining -- for example, prodding Russia on human rights or democracy as part of the price of remaining a customer. 
 Lecturing Russia on the evils of using energy as a political weapon makes little sense, given that it derives so much of its hard currency from oil and gas, and Europe's dependence is only likely to increase. 
 Europe can strengthen its hand by exploring how to curb its dependency, either by finding other gas suppliers or developing alternative fuel sources. Germany is already talking about extending the life of nuclear plants. Last week, President Jacques Chirac said France would build the prototype for a fourth generation of nuclear plants. The goal, he said, is that by 2020, French trains will not use a drop of gasoline.
 But such a strategy has limits. Nuclear plants supply only 14 percent of Europe's energy, compared with 23 percent for gas, and the role of gas is expected to increase. Windmills, solar panels and the like are long-term solutions; for the foreseeable future, households from Munich to Milan will rely on Russian gas to ward off the winter cold.
 Since Europe's current relationship with Russia has been shaped in large part by Germany -- it pioneered economic ties with Moscow during the cold war, and is by far the largest consumer of Russian gas -- any new understanding between Russia and Europe will probably have to begin with Germany. 
 ''Germany had the idea that energy could be the guarantor of good relations,'' said Wolfgang Eichwede, an expert on Russia at the University of Bremen. ''The lesson is that relations have to be not only reliable but balanced.''
 The new German government spoke openly last week about the first part of that formula, when its economics minister, Michael Glos, raised questions about Russia's dependability and said the time had come for Germany to explore other sources of energy. 
 Chancellor Angela Merkel is expected to discuss the matter when she has her first meeting with Mr. Putin on Jan. 16. Mrs. Merkel, a conservative who was raised in the former East Germany and speaks Russian, is believed to be more of a pessimist about how much to expect from Russia than was her Socialist predecessor, Gerhard Schroder.
 ''She does not have a romantic view of Russia,'' said Alexander Rahr, an expert on Russia at the German Council on Foreign Relations. ''I don't think she especially likes Russia, but she understands it.''
 Mr. Schroder cultivated a friendship with Mr. Putin and adopted a Russian child, which became a metaphor for the cozy links he wanted between Germany and Russia. Last month, he became the chairman of a Russian-German consortium that is building a $5 billion gas pipeline from Russia to Germany, a deal he had brokered as chancellor.
 Depending on one's perspective, this pipeline is either a shrewd way to avoid the complications of receiving Russian gas via middle countries like Ukraine or Poland, or a mistake that would make Germany even more dependent on Russia.
 Skeptics argue that it would be a good thing, not just for Europe but for the relationship, to keep a country like Ukraine as a buffer between the supplier and ultimate customer.
 ''The more flags that are planted in a pipeline, the harder it is to cut off,'' said William C. Ramsay, the deputy executive director of the International Energy Agency in Paris. 
 In the end, few experts here believe that Europe is in genuine danger of having Russia turn off the tap. The European market is too vital for Russia, and both sides have already invested too much in the plants and pipes that carry the gas. Managing the relationship is the issue. 
 ''Pipelines are like kids in a marriage,'' said Jerome Guillet, a French banker and an expert in natural gas. ''The seller cannot sell his gas elsewhere; the buyer cannot buy gas elsewhere. The two sides are welded together.''
 Such marriages work best, the realists argue, when both partners have no illusions about changing the other. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); POWER PLANTS (73%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%) GAS (FUEL); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); GAS (FUEL)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); JACQUES CHIRAC (59%) MARK LANDLER; VLADIMIR V (PRES) PUTIN

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (97%); UKRAINE (94%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%) RUSSIA; UKRAINE; GERMANY; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006



186 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADDENDA; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Advertisers Signing Up For Super Bowl XL 

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
The list of marketers buying commercial time during Super Bowl XL, to be broadcast on Feb. 5 by ABC, is growing. 
 Among the advertisers joining the roster of sponsors, which already includes Anheuser-Busch, FedEx and PepsiCo, are Bayer, with a commercial for Aleve pain reliever featuring the actor Leonard Nimoy; the Burger King Corporation, which is returning to the Super Bowl after 11 years; and Diamond of California, with a commercial for Emerald nuts, a brand that made its Super Bowl debut in 2005.
Advertisers are paying ABC, part of the Walt Disney Company, an estimated average of $2.5 million for each 30-second spot during the game. The Aleve commercial is by Energy BBDO in Chicago, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group. The spot for Burger King, owned by investors including Bain Capital, is by Crispin Porter & Bogusky in Miami, part of MDC Partners. The Emerald commercial is by Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, also owned by Omnicom.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (88%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (84%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (83%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (69%); PEPSICO INC (58%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (58%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (56%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (56%); MDC PARTNERS INC (56%)

TICKER: BKW (NYSE) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (84%); OMC (NYSE) (83%); PEP (NYSE) (58%); MDZ.A (TSX) (56%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (58%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006



187 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 411 words

 BODY:

$700 BILLION, HERE WE COME -- The United States trade deficit probably shrank a tad in November, but not enough to avert a record gap for 2006. Economists expect Thursday's figures to show that the imbalance narrowed to $65.9 billion, from $68.9 billion in October, the highest in history, making it all but certain that the deficit will top $700 billion for the year, up from 2004's record $618 billion. 


GREENHOUSE GAS FORUM -- On Thursday, the United States and five Pacific nations -- Australia, China, India, Japan and South Korea -- will open a new forum in Sydney, Australia, on global warming. The inaugural meeting of the group, the Asia Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate, will discuss efforts to cut greenhouse gases that are believed to be responsible for rising world temperatures. Together, the six countries account for half of all greenhouse gas emissions. The energy secretary, Samuel W. Bodman, will head the American delegation.

ECONOMIC STRENGTH -- Forget the trade gap for a moment; statistics due Friday are likely to show that the economy is otherwise in pretty good shape. Producer prices for December are expected to have increased a modest 0.2 percent, further evidence that inflation is under control, while retail sales in December are projected to show a healthy 0.9 percent gain.

AUTO WOES CLOUD ANNUAL SHOW -- The North American International Auto Show, the industry's biggest annual event, opens to the public in Detroit on Saturday. The big players will be promoting hybrids, like General Motors' 2007 Saturn Vue Green Line and a Ford diesel-electric system that the company says will get 65 miles to the gallon. Already, however, the extravaganza is being overshadowed by the decline in sales, credit ratings and profit margins of America's automakers.

ODDS AND ENDS -- In other coming attractions, the jury will resume deliberations today in the trial for accounting fraud of Walter Forbes, above, the former chairman of the Cendant Corporation. It said on Thursday that it was deadlocked. Japan, a reawakening economic giant, will publish its index of leading economic indicators on Wednesday. Sony executives will meet in Hawaii this week to talk about ways to cut $17 billion in costs over the next three years to stem a tide of red ink. Plaintiffs in a Cincinnati suburb who are fighting the seizure of their homes for the benefit of a developer will argue their case on Wednesday before the Ohio Supreme Court.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); JURY TRIALS (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (61%); ACCOUNTING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: CAR (NASDAQ) (63%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (63%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (63%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (63%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: SAMUEL W BODMAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (57%) HAWAII, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006



188 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Spotting Mr. Wrong To Find Mr. Right

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
Heather Graham is the Heather Locklear of the Dragonball Z generation -- the kind of seraphic beauty who is funny only when playing a Becky Sharpe or fantasy figure. Instead, she has been cast as a nice, lovelorn career girl in ABC's sitcom ''Emily's Reasons Why Not.''
 As Emily Sanders, an ambitious Los Angeles-based editor of self-help books who cannot help herself find a suitable mate, Ms. Graham is lovely and not the least bit sympathetic, not even when cast against a scheming former assistant and office rival, a slinky sex kitten, Glitter Cho (Smith Cho). Emily seeks happy-hour advice and consolation from her best friends, Josh (Khary Payton), a gay man, and an outspoken childhood friend, Reilly (Nadia Dajani). 
 The sitcom, based on a chick-lit novel by Carrie Gerlach, is a tepid knockoff of ''Sex and the City'' and any number of similar single-gal series. Emily, like Carrie Bradshaw, delivers a voiceover narration of her dating woes, summed up in a list of her five main reasons for not pursuing a particular man. (No. 3: He has a subscription to Martha Stewart Living.) 
 The show is not original or funny, but it serves as an illustration of looks inflation, the Hollywood version of the grade inflation that plagues colleges throughout the nation. Since the days of Mary Richards and Rhoda Morgenstern, actresses tapped to play unlucky spinsters keep getting more and more ludicrously glamorous. Jamie Lee Curtis's career as a sexpot was waning in 1989 when she began playing a single woman in ''Anything but Love.'' Since then, the Botox and cosmetic surgery epidemic keeps raising expectations about women's appearance: perfection is now considered a starting point. 
 Ten years ago, the former model Brooke Shields was too stunning to be believable as a gawky columnist in ''Suddenly Susan,'' so the sitcom worked her beauty into the part, portraying her as a runaway trophy bride who is given a column by her eccentric would-be brother in law, and is resented by her workplace colleagues because of it. Ally McBeal had gaminelike good looks, but she was neurotic enough to repel men believably. As the central character in ''Sex and the City,'' Sarah Jessica Parker's appeal was that she was sexy, but not always stunning, more jolie-laide than belle de jour. 
 In ''Emily's Reasons Why Not,'' Heather Graham is cast as just an ordinary book editor who happens to have the face of an angel and the body of a comic-book temptress, which she shows to advantage at the office in tight T-shirts and belly-baring bodices. She too cannot find a decent man to date, which suggests that the male shortage in Los Angeles has been drastically underestimated -- as if show business were like the Battle of the Somme in 1916, eliminating or maiming the best men of a generation. 
 Not many actresses go to the lengths, or weight, Renee Zellweger reached to portray Bridget Jones in the movie versions of the best-selling novel and its sequel. But the better ones find a way to work self-mockery into their roles -- even Candice Bergen found her inner Gorgon to play Murphy Brown. 
 Ms. Graham, however, makes no effort to be more human or comically appealing. She is about as engaging as rock salt. She is an excellent candidate for the cover of Maxim, but she is unfortunately the No. 1 reason not to watch ''Emily's Reasons Why Not.'' 

Emily's Reasons Why Not

ABC, tonight at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time.

Gavin Polone, Emily Kapnek, Vivian Cannon and Bill Diamond, executive producers; The ''pilot'' was written by Emily Kapnek and directed by Michael Patrick Jann. Produced by Pariah in association with Sony Pictures Television.

WITH: Heather Graham (Emily Sanders), Khary Payton (Josh), Nadia Dajani (Reilly) and Smith Cho (Glitter Cho).

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A television review on Monday about the new ABC sitcom ''Emily's Reasons Why Not'' misspelled the surname of the heroine of the novel ''Vanity Fair,'' a role cited as the type of role in which Heather Graham, the star of the sitcom, might be funny. She is Becky Sharp, not Sharpe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); WRITERS (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (71%); LITERATURE (71%); GRADE INFLATION (65%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (50%) Television; Reviews 

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (52%) Alessandra Stanley; Heather Graham

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006



189 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; WHAT'S ON TONIGHT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 317 words

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

 BODY:

9 P.M. (ABC) EMILY'S REASONS WHY NOT -- Series premiere. This new sitcom gives Heather Graham (right) all the standard accessories: a WASPy character name (Emily Sanders), a semi-glamorous New York job (in book publishing) and two colorful best friends. One is a gay man into yoga and concerned about everybody's chi. The other is an unemployed, nonconformist straight woman. In the first episode, Emily dates someone too close to home, careerwise. 


8 P.M. (11) THE 11TH ANNUAL CRITICS' CHOICE AWARDS -- And so the awards season begins. (It will end with the Oscar telecast on March 5.) Dennis Miller is the host. George Clooney is set to receive the Freedom Award for ''Good Night, and GoodLuck,'' his film about Edward R. Murrow. King Kong is also scheduled to accept a special honor.

9:30 P.M. (ABC) JAKE IN PROGRESS -- Season premiere. John Stamos returns as Jake, a publicist to the stars who claims to want a stable personal life too. Tonight, just as he decides to make a fresh start, getting rid of every piece of evidence of his former fiancee, Annie (Charlotte Ross, above, with Mr. Stamos), she shows up again.

10 P.M. (NBC) MEDIUM -- The psychopathic doctor whose spirit was responsible for the deaths of 14 young girls in an episode last May is back, and he wants Ariel (Sofia Vassilieva), the oldest daughter of Allison the psychic (Patricia Arquette).

10 P.M. (ABC) THE BACHELOR -- Season premiere. He's good-looking, 6-foot-4, an outdoorsman and, most important, a doctor. Travis Smith (right), 33, a resident at Vanderbilt Medical Center, will meet 25 young single women and ruthlessly, publicly eliminate them from a televised competition to win his heart. The participants range in age from a 23-year-old Canadian student to a 33-year-old California physician whose first name is Venus. They're in Paris this season, and hanging out at a 14th-century chateau can't be all bad. ANITA GATES

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Danny Feld/ABC)
(Photo by Peter ''Hopper'' Stone/ABC)
 (Photo by Bob D'Amico/ABC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); BOOK PUBLISHING (57%); EVIDENCE (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006



190 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Recklessness in Indonesia

 BODY:
Freeport-McMoRan, an American company that operates a giant open-pit copper and gold mine in Papua, is a major contributor to Indonesia's economy. The company is also one of Indonesia's most reckless polluters and a source of hard cash -- cash the company concedes is protection money -- for the Indonesian military, which has one of the worst human rights records anywhere. 
 A recent report in The Times by Jane Perlez and Raymond Bonner described Freeport's activities in great detail. The report was part of a series of articles over the past year detailing environmental and other abuses by American mining companies at home and abroad. 
Several of these companies are being sued by local governments that argue that these companies' environmental practices would never be tolerated in America and that local citizens are seeing too few of mining's benefits while paying too heavy a price. Newmont Mining, based in Denver, has been sued by the Indonesian government for dumping poisoned wastes in local waters, and Placer Dome, based in Canada, has been sued by a Philippine province for similar infractions. 
 Freeport's activities are particularly disheartening. Over the past decade, the company has built what amounts to an industrial city in Indonesia's easternmost province. On the plus side, the company provides jobs for 18,000 people and, according to company estimates, has provided Indonesia with $33 billion in direct and indirect benefits from 1992 to 2004, almost 2 percent of the country's gross domestic product. 
 The environmental damage, however, has been breathtaking. So far, the company has produced about one billion tons of waste, with five billion more tons to come before the operation shuts down. Some of this waste has been dumped into the mountains surrounding the mine, and some into a system of rivers that descend steeply into the island's low-lying wetlands and coastal estuaries. The damage has been enough to render the rivers, wetlands and parts of the estuaries -- all critical to the food chain -- unsuitable for aquatic life. 
 Meanwhile, records show that between 1998 and 2004, Freeport gave officers in the police and military nearly $20 million in direct payments in addition to tens of millions more for military infrastructure like barracks and roads. The company told The Times that the payments were necessary to provide a secure working environment for its employees, and that ''there is no alternative to our reliance on the Indonesian military and police.''
 Papua has long been home to a low-level, separatist insurgency against the central government, which made the company nervous. Yet what is missing from the company's response is any recognition that its environmental practices contributed to the unrest and allowed the military to establish a strong presence in a region where it had barely a toehold before Freeport arrived.
 Freeport's environmental record and its support for the Indonesian military have caused rumbles in Washington, particularly among human rights advocates like Patrick Leahy, a Democratic senator from Vermont. Citing human rights abuses, Congress in 1992 restricted arms sales and most American training for Indonesian officers, and it enacted new prohibitions in 1999 after a rampage by army-backed militia in what was then East Timor Province. Mr. Leahy sharply criticized Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's decision to resume aid last year, which the administration described as a reward for Indonesia's improved human rights record and its cooperation with the post-Sept. 11 counterterrorism campaign. 
 Indonesia's critics say that the present government is an improvement over the authoritarian rule of President Suharto, who ran the country for three decades ending in 1998. Yet the military continues its abusive practices. Setting aside for the moment Freeport's environmental horror show, the company is not doing Indonesia's civilian authorities any favors by underwriting the generals. Freeport describes its payments as an essential cost of doing business. But it appears not to have measured the costs to democracy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COPPER MINING (91%); GOLD MINING (90%); SURFACE MINING (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WETLANDS (89%); RIVERS (87%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); BRIBERY (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (59%) Gold; Editorials; Mines and Mining; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Bribery; Freedom and Human Rights

COMPANY: FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (59%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Freeport-Mcmoran Copper & Gold Inc

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (59%); NEM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (59%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (59%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (59%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (59%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (59%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (59%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (59%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (59%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (59%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (59%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CANADA (79%) Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006



191 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: More Companies Ending Promises For Retirement

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The death knell for the traditional company pension has been tolling for some time now. Companies in ailing industries like steel, airlines and auto parts have thrown themselves into bankruptcy and turned over their ruined pension plans to the federal government. 
 Now, with the recent announcements of pension freezes by some of the cream of corporate America -- Verizon, Lockheed Martin, Motorola and, just last week, I.B.M. -- the bell is tolling even louder. Even strong, stable companies with the means to operate a pension plan are facing longer worker lifespans, looming regulatory and accounting changes and, most important, heightened global competition. Some are deciding they either cannot, or will not, keep making the decades-long promises that a pension plan involves.
I.B.M. was once a standard-bearer for corporate America's compact with its workers, paying for medical expenses, country clubs and lavish Christmas parties for the children. It also rewarded long-serving employees with a guaranteed monthly stipend from retirement until death. 
 Most of those perks have long since been scaled back at I.B.M. and elsewhere, but the pension freeze is the latest sign that today's workers are, to a much greater extent, on their own. Companies now emphasize 401(k) plans, which leave workers responsible for ensuring that they have adequate funds for retirement and expose them to the vagaries of the financial markets. 
 ''I.B.M. has, over the last couple of generations, defined an employer's responsibility to its employees,'' said Peter Capelli, a professor of management at the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania. ''It paved the way for this kind of swap of loyalty for security.''
 Mr. Capelli called the switch from a pension plan to a 401(k) program ''the most visible manifestation of the shifting of risk onto employees.'' He added: ''People just have to deal with a lot more risk in their lives, because all these things that used to be more or less assured -- a job, health care, a pension -- are now variable.'' 
 I.B.M. said it is discontinuing its pension plan for competitive reasons, and that it plans to set up an unusually rich 401(k) plan as a replacement. The company is also trying to protect its own financial health and avoid the fate of companies like General Motors that have been burdened by pension costs. Freezing the pension plan can reduce the impact of external forces like interest-rate changes, which have made the plan cost much more than expected.
 ''It's the prudent, responsible thing to do right now,'' said J. Randall MacDonald, I.B.M.'s senior vice president for human resources. He said the new plan would ''far exceed any average benchmark'' in its attractiveness. 
 Pension advocates said they were dismayed that rich and powerful companies like I.B.M. and Verizon would abandon traditional pensions.
 ''With Verizon, we're talking about a company at the top of its game,'' said Karen Friedman, director of policy studies for the Pension Rights Center, an advocacy group in Washington. ''They have a huge profit. Their C.E.O. has given himself a huge compensation package. And then they're saying, 'In order to compete, sorry, we have to freeze the pensions.' If companies freeze the pensions, what are employees left with?''
 Verizon's chief executive, Ivan Seidenberg, said in December that his company's decision to freeze its pension plan for about 50,000 management employees would make the company more competitive, and also ''provide employees a transition to a retirement plan more in line with current trends, allowing employees to have greater accountability in managing their own finances and for companies to offer greater portability through personal savings accounts.'' 
 In a pension freeze, the company stops the growth of its employees' retirement benefits, which normally build up with each additional year of service. When they retire, the employees will still receive the benefits they earned before the freeze.
 Like I.B.M., Verizon said it would replace its frozen pension plan with a 401(k) plan, also known as a defined-contribution plan. This means the sponsoring employer creates individual savings accounts for workers, withholds money from their paychecks for them to contribute, and sometimes matches some portion of the contributions. But the participating employees are responsible for choosing an investment strategy. Traditional pensions are backed by a government guarantee; defined-contribution plans are not.
 Precisely how many companies have frozen their pension plans is not known. Data collected by the government are old and imperfect, and companies do not always publicize the freezes. But the trend appears to be accelerating.
 As recently as 2003, most of the plans that had been frozen were small ones, with less than 100 participants, according to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, which insures traditional pensions. The freezes happened most often in troubled industries like steel and textiles, the guarantor found.
 Only a year ago, when I.B.M. decided to close its pension plan to new employees, it said it was ''still committed to defined-benefit pensions.''
 But now the company has given its imprimatur to the exodus from traditional pensions. Its pension fund, the third largest behind General Motors and General Electric, is a pace-setter. Industry surveys suggest that more big, healthy companies will do what I.B.M. did this year and next. 
 ''There's a little bit of a herd mentality,'' said Syl Schieber, director of research for Watson Wyatt Worldwide, a large consulting firm that surveyed the nation's 1,000 largest companies and reported a sharp increase in the number of pension freezes in 2004 and 2005. The thinking grows out of boardroom relationships, he said, where leaders of large companies compare notes and discuss strategy.
 Another factor appears to be impatience with long-running efforts by Congress to tighten the pension rules, Mr. Schieber said. Congress has been struggling for three years with the problem of how to make sure companies measure their pension promises accurately -- a key to making sure they set aside enough money to make good. But it is likely to be costly for some companies to reserve enough money to meet the new rules, and they -- and some unions -- have lobbied hard to keep the existing rules intact, or even to weaken them. So far, consensus has eluded the lawmakers.
 ''If Congress will not do its job and clarify the regulatory environment, then I think more and more companies will come to the conclusion that, given everything else that they've got to face, this just isn't the way to go,'' Mr. Schieber said of the traditional pension route. 
 Defined-benefit pensions proliferated after World War II and reached their peak in the late 1970's, when about 62 percent of all active workers were covered solely by such plans, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute, a Washington organization financed by companies and unions. A slow, steady erosion then began, and by 1997, only 13 percent of workers had a pension plan as their sole retirement benefit. The percentage has held steady in the years since then. The growth of defined-contribution plans has mirrored the disappearance of pension plans. In 1979, 16 percent of active workers had a defined contribution plan and no pension, but by 2004 the number had grown to 62 percent.
 For many workers, the movement away from traditional pensions is going to be difficult. Already there are signs that people are retiring later, or taking other jobs to support themselves in old age. Participation in a pension plan is involuntary, but most401(k) plans let employees decide whether to contribute any money -- or none at all. Research shows that many people fail to put money into their retirement accounts, or invest it poorly once it is there.
 Even skillful 401(k) investors can be badly tripped up if the markets tumble just at the time they were planning to retire. Mr. Schieber of Watson Wyatt ran scenarios of what would happen to a hypothetical man who went to work at 25, put 6 percent of his pay into a 401(k) account every year for 40 years, retired at 65, then withdrew his account balance and used it to buy an annuity, a financial product that, like a pension, pays a lifelong monthly stipend.
 He found that if the man turned 65 in 2000 he would have enough 401(k) savings to buy an annuity that paid 134 percent of his pre-retirement income. But if he turned 65 in 2003, his 401(k) savings would only buy an annuity rich enough to replace 57 percent of his pre-retirement income. 
 When a company switches from a pension plan to a 401(k) plan, the transition is hardest on the older workers. That is because they lose their final years in the pension plan -- often the years when they would have built up the biggest part of their benefit. They then start from zero in the new retirement plan.
 Jack VanDerhei, an actuary who is a fellow at the Employee Benefit Research Institute, offered a hypothetical example. If a man joins a firm at 40, works 15 years, and is making $80,000 a year by age 55, he might expect to have built up a pension worth $16,305 a year by that time, Mr. VanDerhei said. If he keeps on working under the same pension plan, that benefit will have increased to $27,175 a year when he retires at 65.
 But if instead when the man turns 55 his company freezes the pension plan and sets up a 401(k) plan, the man will get just the $16,305 a year, plus whatever he is able to amass in the 401(k). It will take both discipline and investment skill to reach the equivalent of the old pension payments in just ten years, Mr. VanDerhei said. 
 For women, the challenge is even tougher. They have longer life expectancies, so they have to pay more than men if they buy annuities in the open market. It turns out the traditional, pooled pension offered them a perk they did not even know they had.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 16, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article last Monday about large, financially strong companies that are freezing their pension plans misstated the percentage of workers who had traditional defined-benefit plans as their sole pension. Some 28 percent of the private sector work force in the late 1970's and 6 percent in 2004 had a ''traditional'' pension as their only plan; not 62 percent of all active workers in the late 1970's and 13 percent in 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Shifting the Cost Of Retirement''Defined benefit pension plans have declined steadily, mostly replaced by 401(k)-type plans, known as defined contribution. There has also been little change in the percentage of employees not covered by either type of plan.Private sector employees with retirement plans, by type of planGraph tracks private sector employees with retirement plans, by type of plans since 1980:Defined benefit only401(k)-type plansBoth kinds of plansFigures for 2000-04 are estimated.(Source by Employee Benefit Research Institute)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (87%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); HEALTH CARE (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ACCOUNTING (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Labor; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Labor

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%) International Business Machines Corp; Verizon Communications Inc

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (57%); LMT (NYSE) (57%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006



192 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 6092 words

HEADLINE: Diabetes and Its Awful Toll Quietly Emerge as a Crisis

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

 BODY:
Begin on the sixth floor, third room from the end, swathed in fluorescence: a 60-year-old woman was having two toes sawed off. One floor up, corner room: a middle-aged man sprawled, recuperating from a kidney transplant. Next door: nerve damage. Eighth floor, first room to the left: stroke. Two doors down: more toes being removed. Next room: a flawed heart.
 As always, the beds at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx were filled with a universe of afflictions. In truth, these assorted burdens were all the work of a single illness: diabetes. Room after room, floor after floor, diabetes. On any given day, hospital officials say, nearly half the patients are there for some trouble precipitated by the disease.
 An estimated 800,000 adult New Yorkers -- more than one in every eight -- now have diabetes, and city health officials describe the problem as a bona fide epidemic. Diabetes is the only major disease in the city that is growing, both in the number of new cases and the number of people it kills. And it is growing quickly, even as other scourges like heart disease and cancers are stable or in decline. 
 Already, diabetes has swept through families, entire neighborhoods in the Bronx and broad slices of Brooklyn, where it is such a fact of life that people describe it casually, almost comfortably, as ''getting the sugar'' or having ''the sweet blood.''
 But as alarmed as health officials are about the present, they worry more about what is to come.
 Within a generation or so, doctors fear, a huge wave of new cases could overwhelm the public health system and engulf growing numbers of the young, creating a city where hospitals are swamped by the disease's handiwork, schools scramble for resources as they accommodate diabetic children, and the work force abounds with the blind and the halt.
 The prospect is frightening, but it has gone largely unnoticed outside public health circles. As epidemics go, diabetes has been a quiet one, provoking little of the fear or the prevention efforts inspired by AIDS or lung cancer. 
 In its most common form, diabetes, which allows excess sugar to build up in the blood and exact ferocious damage throughout the body, retains an outdated reputation as a relatively benign sickness of the old. Those who get it do not usually suffer any symptoms for years, and many have a hard time believing that they are truly ill. 
 Yet a close look at its surge in New York offers a disturbing glimpse of where the city, and the rest of the world, may be headed if diabetes remains unchecked. 
 The percentage of diabetics in the city is nearly a third higher than in the nation. New cases have been cropping up close to twice as fast as cases nationally. And of adults believed to have the illness, health officials estimate, nearly one-third do not know it. 
 One in three children born in the United States five years ago are expected to become diabetic in their lifetimes, according to a projection by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The forecast is even bleaker for Latinos: one in every two.
 New York, perhaps more than any other big city, harbors all the ingredients for a continued epidemic. It has large numbers of the poor and obese, who are at higher risk. It has a growing population of Latinos, who get the disease in disproportionate numbers, and of Asians, who can develop it at much lower weights than people of other races. 
 It is a city of immigrants, where newcomers eating American diets for the first time are especially vulnerable. It is also yielding to the same forces that have driven diabetes nationally: an aging population, a food supply spiked with sugars and fats, and a culture that promotes overeating and discourages exercise.
 Diabetes has no cure. It is progressive and often fatal, and while the patient lives, the welter of medical complications it sets off can attack every major organ. As many war veterans lost lower limbs last year to the disease as American soldiers did to combat injuries in the entire Vietnam War. Diabetes is the principal reason adults go blind. 
 So-called Type 2 diabetes, the predominant form and the focus of this series, is creeping into children, something almost unheard of two decades ago. The American Diabetes Association says the disease could actually lower the average life expectancy of Americans for the first time in more than a century.
 Even those who do not get diabetes will eventually feel it, experts say -- in time spent caring for relatives, in higher taxes and insurance premiums, and in public spending diverted to this single illness. 
 ''Either we fall apart or we stop this,'' said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, commissioner of the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene.
 Yet he and other public health officials acknowledge that their ability to slow the disease is limited. Type 2 can often be postponed and possibly prevented by eating less and exercising more. But getting millions of people to change their behavior, he said, will require some kind of national crusade. 
 The disease can be controlled through careful monitoring, lifestyle changes and medication that is constantly improving, and plenty of people live with diabetes for years without serious symptoms. But managing it takes enormous effort. Even among Americans who know they have the disease, about two-thirds are not doing enough to treat it. 
 Nearly 21 million Americans are believed to be diabetic, according to the Centers for Disease Control, and 41 million more are prediabetic; their blood sugar is high, and could reach the diabetic level if they do not alter their living habits.
 In this sedentary nation, New York is often seen as an island of thin people who walk everywhere. But as the ranks of American diabetics have swelled by a distressing 80 percent in the last decade, New York has seen an explosion of cases: 140 percent more, according to the city's health department. The proportion of diabetics in its adult population is higher than that of Los Angeles or Chicago, and more than double that of Boston.
 There was a pronounced increase in diagnosed cases nationwide in 1997, part of which was undoubtedly due to changes in the definition of diabetes and in the way data was collected, though there has continued to be a marked rise ever since.
 Yet for years, public health authorities around the country have all but ignored chronic illnesses like diabetes, focusing instead on communicable diseases, which kill far fewer people. New York, with its ambitious and highly praised public health system, has just three people and a $950,000 budget to outwit diabetes, a disease soon expected to afflict more than a million people in the city. 
 Tuberculosis, which infected about 1,000 New Yorkers last year, gets $27 million and a staff of almost 400. 
 Diabetes is ''the Rodney Dangerfield of diseases,'' said Dr. James L. Rosenzweig, the director of disease management at the Joslin Diabetes Center in Boston. As fresh cases and their medical complications pile up, the health care system tinkers with new models of dispensing care and then forsakes them, unable to wring out profits. Insurers shun diabetics as too expensive. In Albany, bills aimed at the problem go nowhere. 
 ''I will go out on a limb,'' said Dr. Frieden, the health commissioner, ''and say, 20 years from now people will look back and say: 'What were they thinking? They're in the middle of an epidemic and kids are watching 20,000 hours of commercials for junk food.' ''
 Of course, revolutionary new treatments or a cure could change everything. Otherwise, the price will be steep. Nationwide, the disease's cost just for 2002 -- from medical bills to disability payments and lost workdays -- was conservatively put by the American Diabetes Association at $132 billion. All cancers, taken together, cost the country an estimated $171 billion a year. 
 ''How bad is the diabetes epidemic?'' asked Frank Vinicor, associate director for public health practice at the Centers for Disease Control. ''There are several ways of telling. One might be how many different occurrences in a 24-hour period of time, between when you wake up in the morning and when you go to sleep. So, 4,100 people diagnosed with diabetes, 230 amputations in people with diabetes, 120 people who enter end-stage kidney disease programs and 55 people who go blind. 
 ''That's going to happen every day, on the weekends and on the Fourth of July,'' he said. ''That's diabetes.'' 

One Day in the Trenches
 The rounds began on the seventh floor with Iris Robles. She was 26, young for this, supine in bed. She wore a pink ''Chicks Rule'' T-shirt; an IV line protruded from her arm. For more than a year, she had had a recurrent skin infection. The pain overwhelmed her. Then came extreme thirst and the loss of 50 pounds in six weeks. In the emergency room, she found out she had diabetes. 
 She was out of work, wanted to be an R & B singer, had no insurance. It was her fourth day in Montefiore Medical Center. Her grandmother, aunt and two cousins have diabetes.
 ''I'm scared,'' she said. ''I'm still adjusting to it.''
 Next came Richard Dul, watching news chatter on a compact TV. Now 64, he has had diabetes since he was 22. A month before, he had a blockage in his heart and needed open-heart surgery. He was home a few days, but an infection arose and he was back. Postoperative infections are more common with diabetes. This was his 21st straight day in the hospital. 
 Here, then, was the price of diabetes, not just the dollars and cents but the high cost in quality of life.
 Simply put, diabetes is a condition in which the body has trouble turning food into energy. All bodies break down digested food into a sugar called glucose, their main source of fuel. In a healthy person, the hormone insulin helps glucose enter the cells. But in a diabetic, the pancreas fails to produce enough insulin, or the body does not properly use it. Cells starve while glucose builds up in the blood. 
 There are two predominant types of diabetes. In Type 1, the immune system destroys the cells in the pancreas that make insulin. In Type 2, which accounts for an estimated 90 percent to 95 percent of all cases, the body's cells are not sufficiently receptive to insulin, or the pancreas makes too little of it, or both. 
 Type 1 used to be called ''juvenile diabetes'' and Type 2 ''adult-onset diabetes.'' By 1997, so many children had developed Type 2 that the Diabetes Association changed the names.
 What is especially disturbing about the rise of Type 2 is that it can be delayed and perhaps prevented with changes in diet and exercise. For although both types are believed to stem in part from genetic factors, Type 2 is also spurred by obesity and inactivity. This is particularly true in those prone to the illness. Plenty of fat, slothful people do not get diabetes. And some thin, vigorous people do.
 The health care system is good at dispensing pills and opening up bodies, and with diabetes it had better be, because it has proved ineffectual at stopping the disease. People typically have it for 7 to 10 years before it is even diagnosed, and by that time it will often have begun to set off grievous consequences. Thus, most treatment is simply triage, doctors coping with the poisonous complications of patients who return again and again.
 Diabetics are two to four times more likely than others to develop heart disease or have a stroke, and three times more likely to die of complications from flu or pneumonia, according to the Centers for Disease Control. Most diabetics suffer nervous-system damage and poor circulation, which can lead to amputations of toes, feet and entire legs; even a tiny cut on the foot can lead to gangrene because it will not be seen or felt. 
 Women with diabetes are at higher risk for complications in pregnancy, including miscarriages and birth defects. Men run a higher risk of impotence. Young adults have twice the chance of getting gum disease and losing teeth. 
 And people with Type 2 are often hounded by parallel problems -- high blood pressure and high cholesterol, among others -- brought on not by the diabetes, but by the behavior that led to it, or by genetics.
 Dr. Monica Sweeney, medical director of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Family Health Center, offered an analogy: ''It's like bad kids. If you have one bad kid, not so bad. Two bad kids, it's worse. Put five bad kids together and it's unmanageable. Diabetes is like five bad kids together. You want to scream.''
 The Caro Research Institute, a consulting firm that evaluates the burden of diseases, estimates that a diabetic without complications will incur medical costs of $1,600 a year -- unpleasant, but not especially punishing. But the price tag ratchets up quickly as related ailments set in: an average $30,400 for a heart attack or amputation, $40,200 for a stroke, $37,000 for end-stage kidney disease.
 One of the most horrific consequences is losing a leg. According to the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, some 70 percent of lower-limb amputations in 2003 were performed on diabetics. Sometimes, the subtraction is cumulative. One toe goes. Two more. The ankle. Everything to the knee. The other leg. Studies suggest that as many as 70 percent of amputees die within five years.
 Yet medical experts believe that most diabetes-related amputations are preventable with scrupulous care, and that is why the offices of conscientious doctors post signs like this: ''All patients with diabetes: Don't forget to bare your feet each visit.''
 To witness the pitiless course that diabetes can take, simply continue on the hospital tour. This one day will do. Dr. Rita Louard, an endocrinologist, and Anne Levine, a nurse diabetes educator, were making their way through the rooms at Montefiore.
 Here was Julius Rivers, 58, on the sixth floor. Three years with diabetes. He had been at home in bed when he saw a light like a starburst and told his wife to take him to the emergency room. His blood sugar was 1,400, beyond the pale. (A fasting level of 126 milligrams per deciliter is the demarcation point of diabetes.)
 This was his third trip to the hospital in seven months. At the moment, he had a blood clot in his left leg. He had a heart attack a few years ago. He was on dialysis. ''Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday,'' he said. 
 On the sixth floor was Mauri Stein, 58, a guidance counselor, a diabetic for 20 years. She had been at a party recently and ''zoned out.'' Her words slurred. Foam appeared on her mouth. She had had a mild stroke. 
 Now she tried to control her emotions, tried not to cry. She had had repeated laser surgery on her eyes, and was effectively blind in one. She had recovered from the stroke, but doctors had also found a tumor on her heart and said it would need surgery. 
 ''My feet burn,'' she said. ''My toes burn all the time. My days of wearing my pumps are over. I've gotten more cortisone shots in my feet than I'm sure are legal.'' 
 She mentioned her brother, who lived in California. Diabetes had ransacked his body -- an amputation, kidney dialysis, heart disease, blindness in one eye. He now resided in an assisted-living center. He was 53. 
 Ms. Stein's husband walked in and sat on the bed. Six months ago, he found out the same truth: he had diabetes. 
 This was one day in one hospital.

Inside the Incubator
 Little about diabetes is straightforward, and to comprehend why New York is such an incubator for the disease, it is necessary to grasp that diabetes is as much a sociological and anthropological story as a medical one. While it assaults all classes, ages and ethnic groups, it is inextricably bound up with race and money. 
 Diabetes bears an inverse relationship to income, for poverty usually means less access to fresh food, exercise and health care. New York's poverty rate, 20.3 percent, is much higher than the nation's, 12.7 percent.
 African-Americans and Latinos, particularly Mexican-Americans and Puerto Ricans, incur diabetes at close to twice the rate of whites. More than half of all New Yorkers are black or Hispanic, and the Hispanic population is growing rapidly, as it is around the nation. 
 Some Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders also appear more prone, and they can develop the disease at much lower weights. Asians constitute one-tenth of New York's population, more than twice their proportion nationwide. 
 The nature of these groups' susceptibility remains under study, but researchers generally blame an interplay of genetic and socioeconomic forces. Many researchers believe that higher proportions of these groups have a ''thrifty gene'' that enabled ancestors who farmed and hunted to stockpile fat during times of plenty so they would not starve during periods of want. In modern America, with food beckoning on every corner, the gene works perversely, causing them to accumulate unhealthy quantities of fat. 
 But the velocity of new cases among all races has accelerated significantly from just a few decades ago. Genetics cannot explain this surge, because the human gene pool does not change that fast. Instead, the culprit is thought to be behavior: faulty diet and inactivity. Dr. Vinicor, of the Centers for Disease Control, likes to use this expression: ''Genetics may load the cannon, but human behavior pulls the trigger.'' 
 Of the country's spike in diabetes cases over the last two decades, C.D.C. studies suggest that about 60 percent stem from demographic changes: a population increasingly comprising older people and ethnic groups with a higher risk. 
 The studies ascribe the other 40 percent to lifestyle changes: the fundamental shift that has people eating jumbo meals and shunning exercise as if it were illegal. At every turn, technology has made physical activity unnecessary or unappealing. Gym class has largely been deleted from schools. Fewer than a third of junior high schools require physical education at all, the C.D.C. says.
 On the whole, New York's corpulence is below the national average, with 20 percent of adults qualifying as obese, compared with 30 percent for the country, the C.D.C. says. But the figure is much higher in poor areas like the South Bronx and East Harlem.
 When the health department studied diabetes in the city's 34 major neighborhoods, the distribution echoed demographic patterns: Diabetes left only a light imprint on more affluent, white areas like the Upper West Side and Brooklyn Heights. The prevalence was about average in working-class Ridgewood, Queens, and almost nil on the Upper East Side. 
 But that apparent immunity is weakening. Of those 34 neighborhoods, 22 already have diabetes rates above the national average, and the numbers are rising all over as the city continually remakes itself. 
 ''New York is switching from a mom-and-pop type of environment to a chain-store type of environment, a proliferation of fast food, even in high-rent neighborhoods they haven't had access to before, like the East Village and Lower Manhattan,'' said Peter Muennig, an assistant professor of health policy and management at Columbia. 
 If changes in daily living can bring on diabetes, they can also delay it, though it is uncertain for how long. 
 A federal program studied people around the country at high risk of getting diabetes, and concluded that 58 percent of new cases could be postponed by shifts in behavior -- most notably, shedding pounds.
 But Dr. Frieden, New York's health commissioner, says meaningful prevention cannot be achieved at the city level. ''I can urge people until I'm blue in the face to walk and take the stairs and eat less, and it won't make much difference,'' he said. 
 His emphasis is on trying to better treat those who already have diabetes, an ambitious goal in its own right. Most primary care doctors treat too many patients to provide the attention that diabetics need, or to check for the disease, he said. Specialists are scarce. And compliance among patients is notoriously poor.
 Even the most basic step in controlling the disease -- watching one's blood sugar -- is too much for many diabetics. Doctors recommend that two to four times a year, patients take a so-called A1c test, which gauges the average sugar level over the prior 90 days and is more revealing than daily at-home measurements. 
 But in 2002 , the health department found that 89 percent of diabetics did not know their A1c levels. Of those who did, presumably the most conscientious, four out of five had readings over the level the American Diabetes Association says separates well-controlled from poorly controlled diabetes. 
 The patients in the survey were not much better at knowing their blood pressure and cholesterol, which are also crucial for diabetics to control. 
 ''Diabetes is an interesting beast,'' said Dr. Diana K. Berger, who heads the diabetes division at the health department. ''It's probably one of the easier conditions to diagnose but one of the hardest to manage.''

Shortages and Shipwrecks
 There is an underappreciated truth about disease: it will harm you even if you never get it. Disease reverberates outward, and if the illness gets big enough, it brushes everyone. Diabetes is big enough.
 Predicting the path of a disease is always speculative, but without bold intervention diabetes threatens to hamper some of society's most basic functions. 
 For instance, no one with diabetes can join the military, though service members whose disease is diagnosed after enlisting can sometimes stay. No insulin-dependent diabetic can become a commercial pilot. 
 Shereen Arent, director of legal advocacy for the American Diabetes Association, says she already fields 150 calls a month from diabetics who complain that they are being discriminated against in the workplace, double the number just a couple of years ago. She mentioned a typical case, a man rejected for a job at a baked-bean factory in Texas as a safety risk. ''If this continues,'' she said, ''we're in big trouble.''
 Dr. Daniel Lorber is an endocrinologist in Queens who thinks a lot about the disease's present and future. ''The work force 50 years from now is going to look fat, one-legged, blind, a diminution of able-bodied workers at every level,'' he said, presuming that current trends persist.
 As more women contract diabetes in their reproductive years, Dr. Lorber said, more babies will be born with birth defects. Those needy babies will be raised by parents increasingly crippled by their diabetes.
 ''At a time when we are trying to shift health care out of hospitals, with diabetics you don't have a choice,'' he said. ''Nursing homes are going to be crammed to the gills with amputees in rehab. Kidney dialysis centers will multiply like rabbits. We will have a tremendous amount of people not blind but with low vision. And we have lousy facilities in this country for low-vision problems. These people will not be able to function in society without significant aid.''
 Cost pressures have been slashing the number of hospital beds, and some exasperated doctors are known to denigrate advanced diabetics as ''shipwrecks,'' because they have so many health problems and virtually live in the hospital.
 Not only will the future mean too few beds and unsupportable drains on Medicaid and Medicare, Mr. Muennig said, but if an emergency strikes -- a terrorist attack, an earthquake -- the city health system's ability to respond may be compromised because all the beds will be full of diabetics. 
 Most schools do not have full-time nurses. Some public schools, Ms. Arent said, try to turn away children with diabetes, even though that is illegal. Others ban them from field trips and sports teams. And this is now, when diabetes is still relatively rare among children.
 If trends continue, people will live through years blighted by disability, then die too young. Diabetes is thought to shave 5 to 10 years off a life. 
 ''Life expectancy usually decreases because there's a plague or there's a massive economic trauma,'' Mr. Muennig said. ''In this case, we will see a decline in life expectancy due to a chronic condition.''
 In 2003, diabetes vaulted past stroke and AIDS from the sixth-leading cause of death in New York to the fourth. It was fifth, slightly behind stroke, in 2004. But the health department says it believes the actual toll is much worse because doctors who fill out death certificates may ascribe the death to a complication rather than to the diabetes at its root. Lorna Thorpe, deputy health commissioner, combed through medical charts and concluded that diabetes should be third, trailing cardiovascular disease and cancer. 
 Laurie Raps is a claims representative for Social Security on Staten Island, 31 years on the job. From her perspective, interviewing people embarking on full-time disability, she has seen the disease's long tentacles. When she started, she saw people in their 50's and 60's, hobbled by the usual problems of age: arthritis, herniated discs, heart conditions. Now, every week, she gets diabetic after diabetic, people as young as 30. 
 In fact, a 2004 study by UnumProvident, a major provider of disability insurance, found that the number of workers filing claims for Type 2 diabetes doubled between 2001 and 2003. 
 ''It's a double whammy,'' Ms. Raps said. ''You don't have these people working and paying into the system, and then you have these people collecting from the system.'' 
 Ten years ago, Ms. Raps developed diabetes. Her husband has it. Both her parents have it, their lives being washed away.
 ''When I look at the people who sit before me with disability claims, I have to check the birth date in their records,'' she said. ''They look 10 or 20 years older. Diabetes does that. It wears you down and wears you down. We're looking at a future of people 10 or 20 years older in sickness than they are. What kind of future is that?''

'A 15-Year-Old Is Immortal'
 ''I'm Linda and I've had diabetes for 13 years.''
 ''I'm Dominique and I've had diabetes for seven years.''
 ''I'm Joseph and I've had diabetes for two months.''
 The brisk introductions went on, the ritual start to the monthly meeting of a support group called Sugar Babes Place. All the members had diabetes. All were children.
 Sugar Babes is the idea of Dr. Yolaine St. Louis, chief of pediatric endocrinology at Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center. When she started practicing medicine 16 years ago, the only children she saw with diabetes had Type 1. 
 Now, of Sugar Babes' 90 official members, roughly 40 percent have Type 2. One is 8. Another is 7. 
 It scares Dr. St. Louis. It scares many doctors who see the same thing, because they know it does not have to be. Type 2 was supposed to be an old person's disease. Diabetes still increases with age in an almost linear fashion -- today, one in five New Yorkers age 65 and older have it -- but the starting point used to be mostly in their 50's. 
 Dr. Alan Shapiro, a pediatrician with the Children's Health Fund and Montefiore Medical Center who has spent 13 years ministering to children in the South Bronx, said there was an easy way to illustrate the change. When he began, there was a ''failure-to-thrive'' clinic, meant to address the undernourished, because so many children were dangerously thin and small. 
 ''Now I don't think we hardly ever see a failure-to-thrive case,'' he said. 
 In the clinic's place is an obesity program. Dr. Shapiro never saw children with Type 2 diabetes in his early years in medicine. Now, the program has about 10 cases.
 One concern he and fellow doctors have is the surge in children who take antipsychotic drugs for anxiety and conditions like autism. Some newer drugs can promote weight gain and thus elevate the risk of diabetes. Dr. Shapiro has an autistic patient who he feels needs the new medication. But since taking it, the young man has markedly put on weight and, at 18, developed diabetes. 
 This extension of the disease to the young is where health care professionals feel society and public policy have most glaringly failed. Diabetes, they say, should never have gotten there.
 There has been little research into the long-term impact of Type 2 diabetes on children. But doctors have a rough idea. The harsh consequences that can accompany diabetes tend to arrive 10 to 15 years after onset. 
 If people contract diabetes when they are 15, 10 or even 5, they may well start developing complications, not on the cusp of retirement but in the prime of their lives.
 There is a big difference between losing a limb at 21 and at 70. There is a big difference between going on dialysis at 30 and at 65.
 ''I heard a horror story a few weeks ago,'' Dr. Lorber said, ''of a girl who was born deaf, got diabetes at 11 or 12 and went blind from diabetes at 30.''
 The C.D.C. has projected that a child found to have Type 2 diabetes at age 10 will see his life shortened by 19 years. 
 ''Imagine if kids were showing up at emergency rooms in cardiac arrest,'' said Dr. David L. Katz, director of the Prevention Research Center at the Yale University School of Medicine. ''Frankly, I think that's the next big thing. It's that dramatic. If diabetes doesn't respect age, why should coronary disease? Lord knows, I hope this never happens. But this is what keeps me up at night.''
 Yet children can be the most reluctant to accept the truths of their condition.
 ''A lot of them are in denial,'' Dr. St. Louis said. ''They have blood sugars of 300, 400, and they tell me right to my face they don't have diabetes. 'You're wrong,' they say. 'I don't feel anything.' I tell them what can happen down the road, and they shrug. A 15-year-old doesn't care what's going to happen at 35 or 45. A 15-year-old is immortal.''
 The doctor was telling the Sugar Babes that everyone should have two compact blood-sugar meters, one for home and one for school. Then she warned them, ''If your sugar is bad and you don't do anything, you're going to be dropping down all over the Bronx.''
 Interest was tepid. Some children couldn't keep their eyes off the waiting dinner arranged at a buffet table by the wall. No rapt attention from Joseph, 12, who had begged not to come, until his mother put her foot down. He moaned that he had schoolwork.
 ''Look at that,'' said Dorothy Morris-Swaby, a diabetes nurse educator who worked with Dr. St. Louis, nodding at a girl who was talking on her phone. ''We're educating about diabetes, and she's on her cellphone. Typical teenager.'' 
 As time ran out, hula hoops were brought out. Dr. St. Louis was trying to identify activities other than video games and TV that the children might try. Last meeting, they held a jump-rope contest.
 ''They have 10,000 excuses why they can't do something,'' the doctor said. ''So you have to give them ideas and then hope.'' 
 The meeting wound up. The hoops were stashed away. Some of the children stepped toward the buffet table and began to eat.

By the Numbers: One Scourge in 2 Forms
 Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes are diseases in which the amount of sugar in the blood rises to dangerous levels. Neither is truly curable. Type 2 is more prevalent, representing more than 90 percent of all cases.
 Blood sugar, known as glucose, is the body's primary fuel and is produced during digestion. The sugar is then shuttled by the blood to cells with the help of the hormone insulin. In Type 1, a gland, the pancreas, no longer produces insulin because the immune system has destroyed the cells that make it. Thus sugar builds up in the blood, causing internal damage, while cells starve.
 In Type 2, the body can generally produce insulin, but the diabetic's cells cannot properly use it. In some Type 2 cases, insulin production is insufficient.
 (A third type, gestational diabetes, afflicts a small number of pregnant women. It usually vanishes after the birth, though it increases the woman's risk of developing Type 2.) 
 How people get diabetes remains unclear. Type 1 typically surfaces in childhood and is believed to stem from genetic factors activated by an environmental trigger, like a virus. Type 1 diabetics require daily insulin injections to live.
 Traditionally, Type 2 appears in people over 40. Its onset is also tied to genetics, but is linked to obesity and inactivity as well. Researchers agree that in many cases, the disease can be delayed, and possibly prevented, through exercise and weight loss.
 At the same time, individual behavior cannot explain everything. Most overweight people never develop Type 2 diabetes. And thin people do get it. 
 But most Type 2 diabetics are overweight, especially those who carry extra weight in their abdomens.
 People typically have Type 2 for 7 to 10 years before it is diagnosed, by which time its untreated presence will often have led to complications. 
 Type 2 diabetics typically take medicines that improve responsiveness to insulin and stimulate the pancreas to make more of it. 

ABOUT THE SERIES

The Stealth Epidemic
Today -- Diabetes, long viewed as a routine byproduct of old age, is emerging as the biggest health problem menacing New York City.
 Driven in part by overeating and inactivity, diabetes has already stricken an estimated one of every eight adult New Yorkers, a rate nearly one-third higher than in the nation as a whole. It is finding new victims, and killing many of them, faster than any other major illness -- even as scourges like heart disease, or all cancers taken together, have leveled off or fallen. If unchecked, it is expected to ensnare coming generations on an unheard-of scale: One in every three Americans born five years ago. One in two Latinos.
 Yet a yearlong examination by The New York Times found an alarming lack of urgency about the threat among patients, doctors, insurers and even public health authorities -- partly because of the quirks of the disease, which can take years to show symptoms.
 Those symptoms are dire. Diabetes allows sugar to build up in the blood, detonating a barrage of complications: kidney failure, strokes, decaying limbs. Type 2 diabetes, the most widespread variety and the focus of this series, increasingly afflicts children, who rarely got it a generation ago. It can often be controlled, or possibly prevented, but many of those at risk -- and the medical system that could help them -- seem stymied by the effort and cost.
 Diabetes is a global crisis. But for New York, a city of immigrants adopting American lifestyles, the signs of the epidemic are chilling: crowded hospitals, swelling disability rolls and mounting costs that already touch everyone.

ONLINE: VIDEO, DISCUSSION AND MORE RESOURCES-- Interviews with experts and video reports from the places where the fight against diabetes is being won, and lost, appear on the Web, along with reader forums and relevant links: nytimes.com/diabetes.

TOMORROW --On the streets of East Harlem, a diabetic ground zero.
WEDNESDAY -- A health care system avoids prevention and rewards failure.
THURSDAY -- Among the next generation of victims: children of immigrants.

 Rising diabetes rates in New York City, in the nation and around the world are alarming health officials. The World Health Organization estimates that 171 million people were living with diabetes in 2000, and that 266 million will have it in 2030.

Diabetes rates are climbing in New York City . . .
Percentage of adults reporting that they have diabetes

Graph tracks percent of adults reporting that they have diabetes since 1994.

. . . and the burden is not shared equally among the city's neighborhoods.

Map of New York City highlighting percentage of adults reporting that they have diabetes

Nationally, diabetes is becoming more prevalent . . .
Age-adjusted prevalence of diagnosed diabetes

. . . with the South and East leading the way.
Age-adjusted prevalence of diagnosed diabetes, 2004

Map of the United States highlighting areas with most age-adjusted prevalence of diagnosed diabetes, 2004.

Worldwide, deaths from diabetes are expected to increase . . .
Estimated worldwide deaths from diabetes per 100,000 people

Graph tracks estimated percent of deaths from diabetes per 100,00 people worldwide since 2000.

. . . especially among wealthier countries and as poorer countries develop.
Estimated prevalence of diabetes, 2000

Map of the World highlighting areas with the highest percent of diabetes.

(James Bronzan/The New York Times)

(Sources by New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene; U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; World Health Organization)(pg. A18)

GRAPHIC: Photos: 'I'M SCARED. I'M STILL ADJUSTING TO IT.' -- Iris Robles, 26, who is new to the ranks of diabetics, with a diabetes educator, Anne Levine, in the Bronx.
SHOT FOR A SUGAR BABE -- Brian Acevedo, getting insulin at a meeting of Sugar Babes Place, a children's support group in the Bronx. Many members have Type 2 diabetes, once thought of as an old person's disease. (Photographs by VINCENT LAFORET/The New York Times)(pg. A19)
Claudette McCloggan, among the city's 800,000 adult diabetics, at the Bedford- Stuyvesant Family Health Center. (pg. A18)
 Diabetes, soaring among New Yorkers, has already left a mark on Diane and Aniello Discala of the Bronx. She lost a leg to its complications. (Photo by Vincent Laforet for The New York Times)(pg. A1)Chart/Map: ''A Local, National and Worldwide Scourge''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIABETES (94%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); CANCER (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HEART DISEASE (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); REFUGEES (74%); FAMILY (73%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (72%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (72%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); AIDS & HIV (71%); LUNG CANCER (66%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (60%) Diabetes; Surveys and Series; Immigration and Refugees; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Children and Youth; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Diabetes; Diabetes

PERSON: N R Kleinfield

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006



193 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Cambodian Leader Cracks Down in Bid to Solidify Power

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: PHNOM PENH, Cambodia, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
The harshest political crackdown in years is under way here in what some analysts are calling the final stage in Prime Minister Hun Sen's drive to consolidate unchallenged power.
 Over the past year, he has choked off the last effective political opposition while continuing to marginalize the monarchy, manipulate the courts and intimidate labor unions and other civic groups. In December, the leader of the only significant opposition party, Sam Rainsy, who had already fled the country, was sentenced in absentia to 18 months in prison for criminal defamation.
 Now, with a series of arrests and lawsuits on defamation and related charges, Mr. Hun Sen is for the first time directly attacking the human rights groups that, by default, serve as a de facto democratic opposition. 
 ''Cambodia right now is at a crossroads: It must decide whether it's going to be a real democracy or whether it's going to move inexorably toward a one-party state,'' said the American ambassador, Joseph Mussomeli.
 The special United Nations envoy for human rights in Cambodia, Yash Ghai, said only strong action from the countries that support Cambodia's economy could stop the slide.
 ''It has all the hallmarks of the beginning of a totalitarian regime,'' he said.
 The human rights groups are the most substantial and lasting legacy of a major international effort by the United Nations in the early 1990's to implant democracy in Cambodia, a nation wrecked by war, repression and mass killings.
 From 1975 to 1979, the Communist Khmer Rouge caused the deaths of 1.7 million people, nearly one-fourth of the nation's population. In the decade that followed, Cambodia was ruled by a Vietnamese-backed Communist government in which Mr. Hun Sen rose to leadership.
 By staging a coup in 1997, intimidating opponents, manipulating elections and cutting constitutional corners, Mr. Hun Sen has moved steadily to reclaim the full powers he held before the United Nations intervention.
 The forms of democracy remain. A parliamentary election is to be held in 2008. And Mr. Hun Sen noted that he had not taken action against Mr. Sam Rainsy's party, just against Mr. Sam Rainsy.
 Those forms, however, do not compensate for a policy of intimidation, the American ambassador said. ''They have scared the hell out of the opposition, and it becomes more difficult to take these trappings of democracy as the real thing each time another voice is silenced,'' Mr. Mussomeli said.
 He spoke after witnessing the arrest on Dec. 31 of the country's most prominent and outspoken human rights figure, Kem Sokha, on a charge of criminal defamation.
 Mr. Kem Sokha was nonpartisan, but his town meetings on democratic rights and his unfettered radio call-in shows challenged the government's control of public opinion.
 A second human rights campaigner, Yeng Virak, was arrested the same day. A third, Pa Nguon Teang, was arrested Wednesday. In October, a popular and acerbic radio journalist, Mom Sonando, and the president of an independent teachers union, Rong Chhum, were arrested on defamation charges.
 At least seven other critics face criminal lawsuits by Mr. Hun Sen and at least five critics have fled the country, said Human Rights Watch, the New York-based monitoring group.
 Mr. Sam Rainsy, the leader of the opposition party that bears his name, fled to France after being stripped of his parliamentary immunity early last year. A second top party official also fled, but a third, Cheam Channy, stayed behind, was arrested and is serving a seven-year prison sentence for his opposition activities.
 Many analysts say they are puzzled by Mr. Hun Sen's crackdown when his leadership already seems unassailable. But in a country where political life is an endless struggle for power, Mr. Hun Sen seems never to rest.
 This time he is using a tactic that has worked well for Singapore's leaders and is being tried by Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra of Thailand -- eliminating opposition through lawsuits.
 The government spokesman, Khieu Kanharith, offered one rationale, telling the Voice of America radio station that the arrests on defamation charges were part of the country's democratic system.
 ''We have to sue them,'' he said. ''The most important thing is the general election. And in a general election in Cambodia and everywhere in the world, your prestige would be a great asset.''
 Mr. Hun Sen said he was filing his lawsuits to protect his own reputation. ''I am a human being, not an animal, and deserve to have my honor and dignity,'' he said.
 Mr. Hun Sen could contend that he had mellowed. No tanks have been in the streets and no wave of killings has occurred as was the case during the coup in 1997 when he seized sole leadership from Norodom Ranarridh, the co-prime minister installed during the United Nations intervention.
 But even during the coup, civil society and human rights groups, with their strong backing from donor nations, were, for the most part, not targets.
 ''This has been the first breach of the human rights community's wall of safety,'' said Brad Adams, the Asia director of Human Rights Watch. ''And so for the human rights community this is the darkest moment.''
 Over the years, these groups have embedded themselves in Cambodian life, where, particularly in isolated communities, they often represent people who distrust the police and fear powerful officials.
 ''Look at the grass roots, what can people do?'' said a Cambodian reporter who, in the current atmosphere of uncertainty, spoke on the condition that his name not be used.
 ''If there is a land grab, they don't go to the police first,'' he said. ''They go to Adhoc or Licadho'' -- two prominent human rights groups.
 ''In the village, if a husband beats his wife, she runs to Adhoc, not to the police,'' he said. ''So the government does not enjoy the way these two groups help people fight for their rights, for freedom and justice.''
 And as he traveled around the country holding seminars with local people, the reporter said, ''Kem Sokha was telling people about their rights.''
 At the time of his arrest, Mr. Kem Sokha said he had expected eventually to be arrested, exiled or killed. The determination of people like this is inspiring, said Naly Pilorge, a Licadho leader.
 ''It's funny with a country like Cambodia, with the history of the Khmer Rouge, you just go, 'Boo!' and people are afraid,'' she said. ''And now you see these great displays of courage. And they knew something was going to happen to them sooner or later, and they just kept going.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kem Sokha held hands with his wife before his arrest on Dec. 31 in Phnom Penh on a charge of defamation. (Photo by Bunna Chor/Reuters)
 Prime Minister Hun Sen has silenced the political opposition. (Photo by Chor Sokunthea/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LIBEL & SLANDER (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); GENOCIDE (89%); ARRESTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); SENTENCING (77%); COUPS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (74%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (57%) Freedom and Human Rights; Freedom of Speech and Expression; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (59%) Human Rights Watch

PERSON: Seth Mydans; Hun Sen (Prime Min); Joseph (Amb) Mussomeli

GEOGRAPHIC: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (90%) CAMBODIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) Cambodia; Cambodia

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006



194 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: 2 Major Contenders in Race to Lead House Republicans

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
The contest for House Republican leader shaped up Sunday as a race between two senior rivals, with the Bush administration and its Congressional allies braced for a potentially divisive internal battle at the start of a crucial campaign year.
 One day after Representative Tom DeLay of Texas ended his effort to regain the majority leader's position, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, chairman of the Education and the Workforce Committee, announced he would oppose Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri for the post.
''I want to start a conversation within our conference -- a conversation about renewal,'' Mr. Boehner wrote in a letter to his colleagues. ''Renewal in spirit, renewal in principles, renewal in commitment.''
 At the same time, Mr. Blunt, the No. 3 leader, who has been filling in for Mr. DeLay since his indictment in a Texas campaign finance case in September, stepped up an aggressive campaign to secure commitments from his colleagues as he and his allies tracked down House members scattered for the recess. While the names of other potential leadership candidates circulated, no one else immediately stepped forward. 
 With Republicans reeling from a lobbying scandal that shredded support for Mr. DeLay, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert announced Sunday that Representative David Dreier, Republican of California and chairman of the Rules Committee, would explore changes in lobbying laws.
 ''Recent developments have made clear the need for the House to take a closer look at the rules regarding members' interactions with lobbyists,'' Mr. Dreier said in a statement.
 Mr. Boehner and others expressed reservations about the need for more regulations, saying what was required was better enforcement of existing rules. But Mr. Blunt, in his first public appeal to colleagues, backed the idea of lobbying changes and said recent months had been made more difficult by criminal cases growing out of a federal inquiry and other suspect behavior.
 ''Unfortunately, the recent scandals have caused some to question whether we have lost our vision and whether the faith they have placed in us is justified,'' Mr. Blunt wrote in asking House Republicans for their support. ''While I have no doubt that it is, it will be difficult to move forward with our platform until we regain the trust and confidence of our constituents by enacting new lobbying reforms and enhanced penalties for those who break the public trust.''
 For the White House, the leadership fight will complicate President Bush's efforts to press ahead with his political recovery effort after a difficult 2005. It is also likely to distract attention from the agenda he plans to set out in the State of the Union address, which he is expected to deliver on Jan. 31, in the same week as the leadership vote.
 Mr. Bush had hoped to use January to accomplish two big goals: win the confirmation battle over Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr.'s nomination to the Supreme Court, and show voters that he is overwhelmingly focused on the war in Iraq and the economy.
 But the fight for Mr. DeLay's old job will highlight the internal divisions among Republicans on a variety of topics, including immigration, at a time when the party's discipline has been fraying and Mr. Bush has had trouble holding thin legislative majorities together. 
 Even before Mr. DeLay's decision not to try to hold on to power, administration officials and outside advisers had been concerned about their ability to prevail in battles carrying over from last year, including extending the antiterrorism bill known as the USA Patriot Act and finishing work on the budget. 
 The White House has sought to keep Mr. Bush insulated from any political fallout from the corruption investigations. Mr. Bush has never been particularly close to Mr. DeLay, a fellow Texan, but the White House had come to admire his ability to muscle the administration's agenda reliably through the House. 
 And Mr. Bush had publicly exhibited loyalty to and support for Mr. DeLay on several occasions over the past year as his legal and political troubles mounted; last month, the president told Fox News that he believed Mr. DeLay to be innocent of the charges filed against him in Texas and that he was hoping Mr. DeLay would resume his role as majority leader.
 Congressional aides said the election to choose a permanent successor for Mr. DeLay was tentatively scheduled for Feb. 2, but both Mr. Blunt and Mr. Boehner were trying to wrap up the contest quickly by obtaining pledges from at least 116 members -- a majority of the current Republican membership of 231.
 ''I've got a lot of phone numbers, a lot of e-mail addresses,'' Mr. Boehner said in an interview on the Fox News Channel. ''But so far, so good.''
 Mr. Boehner served as conference chairman, the No. 4 position in the leadership, after Republicans seized control of the House in 1994. But he lost the job in 1998 in a leadership shakeup that sent Republicans looking for new faces at the top. Since then, he has concentrated on legislation, using his committee chairmanship to develop major education and pension bills.
 Mr. Blunt was brought into the leadership in 1999 when Mr. DeLay made him chief deputy whip. He took the No. 3 whip position when Mr. DeLay was promoted to majority leader in 2002. The last few months were challenging for Mr. Blunt as he led House Republicans in Mr. DeLay's absence, struggling to reach consensus on budget issues. Mr. Blunt will try to persuade his colleagues that narrow approval of the measures last month earned him the job. 
 Republican officials said both men would have to reassure colleagues that they would not take a leadership slot only to be caught up later in the scandal surrounding Jack Abramoff, the onetime close associate of Mr. DeLay who pleaded guilty last week to a series of federal charges tied to his lobbying operations.
 For now, House Republicans say the only position to be decided is majority leader. But if Mr. Blunt wins, it will spur an election for whip. Aides to Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, currently the deputy whip, said Sunday that he had already received more than 90 pledges of support. But others, including Representatives Mike Rogers of Michigan, a former F.B.I. agent, and Zach Wamp of Tennessee were considered possible contenders.
 House Republican aides said Mr. Hastert and Mr. Dreier were open to a broad array of changes in lobbying rules and hoped to meet with Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and the author of his own proposal, as well as with Democrats who have introduced initiatives.
 But Mr. Boehner, in his Fox interview, said that ''adding more new rules isn't the answer.'' Other lawmakers expressed a similar view. 
 Democrats said they were watching to see if Republicans were serious about the lobbying effort. Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, recalled that the 2005 session of the House began with Republicans trying to loosen ethics rules.
 ''Today's announcement by Speaker Hastert that he is ready to work toward genuine lobbying and ethics reform is welcome and long overdue,'' Mr. Emanuel said. ''My hope is that it translates into a sincere effort to clean up this institution and make it work for the people we are elected to serve.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: ''Job Opening in the House''Two men hoping to be majority leader have begun jockeying for position. If Roy Blunt lands the job, he will leave an opening for a new majority whip.Roy BluntMISSOURIMajority whip
 has filled in for Tom DeLay as majority leader since September.John A. BoehnerOHIOHas served in House leadership before.POSSIBLE CONTENDERS FOR MAJORITY WHIPEric CantorVIRGINIAThe appointed deputy whip.Mike RogersMICHIGANStrong fund-raiser in 2004 House races.Zach WampTENNESSEETried to change term limits on chairmanships.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LOBBYING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); ETHICS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); INDICTMENTS (73%); SCANDALS (71%) Lobbying and Lobbyists; Ethics

PERSON: ROY BLUNT (91%); JOHN BOEHNER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%); DAVID DREIER (58%) Carl Hulse; Roy (Rep) Blunt; John A (Rep) Boehner; J Dennis (Speaker) Hastert; Tom (Rep) Delay

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006



195 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: State Wage Referendums

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''States Take the Lead in Push to Raise Minimum Wages'' (front page, Jan. 2): The minimum wage could prove to be a pivotal issue in the 2006 election, as approximately nine states follow Florida's and Nevada's lead and consider wage raises through open referendum. Besides Ohio, they will likely include Michigan, Arkansas, Arizona and Montana. This issue enjoys almost universal public support and could influence other election results. 
In addition, research has greatly mitigated the claims of critics that the minimum wage is bad for workers and businesses. The work of the economists David Card and Alan Krueger, the Economic Policy Institute and others suggests that the minimum wage can have a positive effect on businesses and the economy as a whole, while also being the just and right thing to do for workers.

H. Luke Shaefer
Lansing, Mich., Jan. 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (52%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage; United States Economy; Elections; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%) House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: H Luke Shaefer

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006



196 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 530 words

PERSON: David E. Rosenbaum

HEADLINE: David Rosenbaum, 63, Reporter For The Times in Washington

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
David E. Rosenbaum, a retired reporter and editor for The New York Times who for more than 35 years wrote about the intersection of politics, economics and government policy with uncommon depth, clarity and a keen eye for the story behind the story, died Sunday. He was 63. 
 His death was caused by a brain injury suffered when he was struck in the head and robbed Friday night while walking near his home in Northwest Washington, police officials and his family members said.
 Mr. Rosenbaum served at various times as chief Congressional correspondent, chief domestic policy correspondent, chief economics correspondent, assistant news editor and business editor in the Washington bureau of The Times.
 For years, he was the specialist of an occasional Times feature called The Fine Print, which dissected hidden, confusing or hypocritical details of legislation that was pending or just passed.
 Mr. Rosenbaum joined The Times in 1968 after working at The St. Petersburg Times in Florida, a chain of suburban newspapers in London and Congressional Quarterly, and he worked in the Washington bureau for all but three years in the early 1980's when he was the paper's special projects editor in New York. He retired last month, but kept his old desk, and planned to keep contributing articles to the paper about politics and politicians.
 ''He was a reporter with a deep understanding of policy, and of the interaction between policy and politics,'' said Robert D. Reischauer, the former head of the Congressional Budget Office and a frequent news source. ''All of us tend to speak in jargon. He would say: 'Come on! Explain it, explain.' He would get enough from several of us to then turn it into something the average reader would find understandable and interesting. He was one who wanted to peel back the layers of the onion from the smooth and superficial that the spinmeisters would like us to think is the real world, to the core that makes your eyes start to cry.''
 Mr. Rosenbaum shared the George Polk Award for national reporting for his coverage of the 1990 budget deal in which the first President George Bush abandoned his pledge not to raise taxes. He covered a sweeping range of other long-running stories, from the Senate Watergate hearings of 1973 to the Iran-contra hearings of 1987 to more recent debates over trade, taxes, tobacco, energy, Medicare and Social Security.
 Mr. Rosenbaum was born on March 1, 1942, in Miami and grew up in Tampa, Fla., where his father founded a citrus cannery. He received his bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College in 1963 and a master's in journalism from Columbia University in 1965.
 For more than 25 years, he was a member of the steering committee of the Reporters Committee for the Freedom of the Press, a nonprofit organization devoted to protecting the First Amendment and reporters' legal rights.
 He is survived by his wife, Virginia, a researcher at the Investor Responsibility Research Center and the author of several books on corporate governance; a daughter, Dorothy, of Bethesda, Md.; a son, Daniel, of Washington; a brother, Marcus, of Washington, a senior editor at National Public Radio; and two grandchildren.


GRAPHIC: Photo: David E. Rosenbaum (Photo by Susana Raab for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HEAD INJURIES (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); ROBBERY (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (61%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); BRAIN INJURIES (57%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%) New York Times

GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Todd S Purdum

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); MIAMI, FL, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006



197 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Redesign the Paved and Low-Rise Core of Nassau

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

DATELINE: UNIONDALE, N.Y., Jan. 4 

 BODY:
From a certain spot here, there is concrete as far as the eye can see and in every direction. There are concrete roadways, parking lots, an incinerator smokestack, overpasses, buildings and, in a certain sense, ideas: ideas set in concrete about what it means to live in the suburbs.
 As currently conceived, the fixed idea about living in the suburbs is that one lives in a comfortable home on a tree-lined street, and that is pretty much all that matters. The rest of the space between one's doorstep and the world at large is space that one drives by, and as fast as traffic will allow.
 The sea of concrete in Uniondale, for instance, covers an area almost literally at the center of affluent Nassau County. It consists of an office park, a sports complex and a lot of parking space. Within a mile are two college campuses and a third of a million people. Yet no part of the area is related to any other part except by parkways on which people pass. 
 But in a bid for a new suburban logic, and on the verge of what is widely expected to be a dark-horse race for governor, the Nassau County executive, Thomas R. Suozzi, has conducted a quiet campaign in the past year to reimagine this piece of paved-over and strangely invisible suburban landscape as a place not to pass, but at which to arrive.
 In broad outline, the 77-acre county-owned site surrounding the frayed county sports arena known as the Nassau Veterans Coliseum would undergo a complete makeover. Besides the coliseum and its Islanders hockey franchise, which would stay, the area would offer new places to live, work, shop, be entertained, ride a bike, hold parades, or catch a monorail to nearby shopping malls, college campuses and railroad stations.
 Four developers have submitted bids, one of which Mr. Suozzi will recommend for approval to the County Legislature in the next few weeks. The work could take a decade. 
 But in the undertaking, Nassau County, one of New York's oldest suburbs, joins a raft of others in trying to figure out how to solve what planners consider a cluster of fundamental problems facing every aging suburban community in the United States. That is, how to use what little building space is left while competing with revitalized cities for new people and new business, and all the while staying ''suburban.''
 Mr. Suozzi, for instance, does not like to call what he has in mind a ''downtown.''
 ''We don't want to become urban,'' he said in an interview. ''We don't want it to be called post-suburban either, or new urban, or whatever they are calling it in other places. We call it the new suburbia.''
 Naming things being the first order of any reimagining, Mr. Suozzi even refers to the area by a different name from the one it has had, the Hub, since development there was first proposed by a previous county executive, Thomas S. Gulotta.
 ''We call it Nassau Centre now, and make sure you spell it right,'' Mr. Suozzi said.
 By whatever name, planners consider the reinvention of the suburbs, by which they generally mean attracting jobs and increasing the density of population, in some places a matter of survival.
 ''Unless you want taxes to keep going up, and services to decline, I don't see how anyone can be against this,'' said Bruce Katz, the director of metropolitan policy at the Brookings Institution.
 The thinking of Mr. Katz and others who have studied the oldest suburbs in America is that for the most part, sprawl has begun to reach its limits; that the declining urban crime rate has made cities attractive to a part of the population that would otherwise have been drawn to the suburbs; that what used to be bedroom communities exclusively are now places of work, too, especially rich in service and technology jobs; that too many young people cannot afford to buy homes in the suburbs where they grew up; that the oldest suburbs are at something of a crossroads.
 ''The question is whether the suburbs can mature to fit the new realities,'' Mr. Katz said.
 In that sense of the word, some communities have matured earlier than others. Pedestrian-friendly and so-called mixed-use developments -- usually combining residential with commercial and entertainment facilities -- have brought downtown substance, and high-density living, to such previously sprawling suburbs as Palatine, Ill., outside Chicago; Arlington, Va., near Washington; and Orange County, Calif.
 In Anaheim, Calif., plans are in place to build high-rise condominiums, lofts and stores on the land surrounding the Angels' baseball stadium, a design that looks somewhat like what could sprout on the land around the Nassau Coliseum, depending on which of the four developers' proposals is selected.
 ''You know what the tallest structure in Nassau County is?'' Mr. Suozzi said, stepping from his car on a tour of the proposed development site near the coliseum. ''The Hempstead incinerator!'' He pointed at it. ''That's ridiculous.''
 As it happened, a question of height was the first sticking point for Mr. Suozzi's vision. A 60-story hotel, office and residential tower was the centerpiece of a $1.4 billion plan proposed last year by the Islanders' owner, Charles B. Wang, the first developer to commit to a major undertaking at Nassau Centre.
 He promoted the tower as the ''icon'' missing from the local landscape, the image that would say ''Long Island.'' But opponents immediately argued that 60-story towers say Manhattan, not Long Island. In December, Mr. Wang removed it from his proposal, promising to replace it with another ''appropriate'' icon, but insisting that there has to be something on the landscape that defines the center of Nassau County.
 In all the developers' proposals, a renovated or rebuilt coliseum and construction of a parking garage are givens. Mr. Wang's plan features a sports training center, light rail service and a network of artificial canals that would draw pedestrians to their banks in summer, and ice skaters in winter.
 One of the proposals, by the New York Mets Development Corporation and its partners -- which consider Long Island a big part of its fan base -- is to rebuild the coliseum and add a minor league baseball stadium, a hotel convention center, rail service, two million square feet of apartments and 500,000 square feet of commercial space.
 A group led by Vincent Polimeni, a shopping center developer, offers three residential towers and a new county government building, which would allow the county to consolidate offices scattered in dozens of sites.
 The most modest proposal, made by the Engel Burman Group, a development company in Lynbrook, would add four condominium towers in a cluster near the coliseum.
 ''The fact is that we lost 116,000 people between the ages of 20 and 34 in the last 15 years, and that is not something we should be proud of,'' said Mitchell H. Pally, vice president for governmental affairs of the Long Island Association, a business group that strongly supports a major new development at the site. The figure referred to both Nassau and Suffolk Counties.
 ''We have to change our patterns of living,'' Mr. Pally added. ''We can no longer have acres and acres of parking lots.''
 Mr. Suozzi's idea is probably too new and unshaped to have drawn the kind of opposition that met his predecessor's efforts on the same field in 1998. Then, fiscal problems, environmental watchdogs and small business owners merged to sink Mr. Gulotta's Hub plan. 
 But some of the same issues are likely to be raised in the coming months, when the County Legislature holds hearings. At recent public presentations of the four development proposals, small retailers have voiced concern about losing business. Also, civic leaders have raised questions about traffic congestion, water and sewage service, school overcrowding, police patrols and fire service, which on Long Island is still provided by volunteers.
 ''Before we do anything, we have to carefully study the economic impact of this thing,'' said Richard M. Bivone, president of the Nassau Council of Chambers of Commerce, which represents 52 chamber groups. ''Traffic could be a nightmare.''
 Mr. Suozzi seems sensitive to the issues. He has been raising money for an expected challenge to Attorney General Eliot Spitzer for the Democratic nomination for governor this year. His every remark on the development proposal seems a balance between a sweeping vision statement and a list of the issues that matter to the constituencies that must be brought on board, whether for Nassau Centre or the campaign for governor.
 ''We have to preserve our open space, we have to revitalize our downtowns, build affordable housing, clean up our pollution, build public transportation,'' Mr. Suozzi said.
 He paused. ''But we have stopped growing,'' he said. ''We have to make people want to come here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi at the Nassau Veterans Coliseum. (Photo by Ed Betz for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); COUNTIES (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (88%); SPORTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (88%); WINTER SPORTS (88%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); GOVERNORS (68%); RETAILERS (63%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (62%) Nassau Coliseum; Hockey, Ice; Area Planning and Renewal; Suburbs

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%) New York Islanders

PERSON: Paul Vitello; Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Nassau County (NY) ; Nassau County (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006



198 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: After a Grim Diagnosis, Salvation Is Still the Goal 

BYLINE: By MONICA POTTS

 BODY:
When Carole Stallings's doctor told her in June that she had cancer and had only a year to live, she took it the same way she says she always takes a doctor's advice: as an informed opinion from a knowledgeable consultant that may or may not affect her decisions.
 So, during the holiday season that just ended, Ms. Stallings decided to suspend her chemotherapy and spend the time with her family uninterrupted. She says that her doctors advised against that decision, but that she feels better than ever and is not afraid of what they will find when she resumes treatment.
Ms. Stallings, 52, a minister who lives in an apartment in Starrett City, Brooklyn, says she relies mostly on her faith to guide her. 
 ''I'm teaching all these people to go to heaven for help,'' she said. ''I have to practice what I've been teaching.''
 After graduating from college, Ms. Stallings worked in sales and marketing in the 1970's and 80's, making about $30,000 a year, she said, a comfortable income in those days.
 Then, in 1994, she said, she suddenly felt the need to become a minister.
 ''You don't get drawn,'' she said. ''You get called.''
 Ms. Stallings gave up her sales job and began to train with ministers she admired. She was ordained by Baptist ministers but says she now follows her own biblical philosophy and provides services to those who need them regardless of their denomination.
 Her relatives are members of churches in a denomination known as Primitive Baptist. The denomination does not ordain women as ministers, Ms. Stallings said, and when she began studying and preaching in other churches in Brooklyn, she felt disapproval from her older uncles, who are deacons.
 But when one of her uncles supported her by coming to one of her sermons, stepping onto the podium and taking a seat behind her, she knew she could succeed as a preacher.
 When God calls, her uncles told her, you have to answer.
 Ms. Stallings continued studying as a minister and an associate preacher at Brooklyn churches and with the Salvation Army. She often officiated at funerals and weddings for lower-income families and waived the traditional fees. Because of this, she said, her income was very low. 
 Her oldest daughter, Dara, 29, who lives with her, worked as a sales assistant at Macy's but left her job when she learned of her mother's illness. 
 Together, they had always managed to pay their 30 percent share of the $1,000 rent, subsidized through Section 8, a federal assistance program for the poor. 
 But in November 2004, a family emergency took Ms. Stallings to Anaheim, Calif., where her brother, her other daughter, Autumn, 28, and her grandson live. 
 She sought work there as a minister, but was unsuccessful. Then she became sick with what was initially diagnosed in California as an upper respiratory infection. She had used most of her savings to continue paying rent on her Brooklyn apartment, where Dara still lived, and returned to see her physician there. 
 Eventually, the doctors diagnosed the cancer, small-cell carcinoma. Ms. Stallings was told that she had tumors in her lungs and part of her liver and that the cancer was incurable.
 By then she had not worked since traveling to California, and leaving New York State had cost her the subsidy on her apartment. 
 May, June and July passed without her being able to pay the rent. She owed more than $4,000 by the time her landlord took her to court in August. 
 Desperate, Ms. Stallings began searching online for legal help, connecting with organizations she knew through her past work at the Salvation Army. 
 She found Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens, one of seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. She also found a Catholic Charities social worker, LeeAnn Hanhan, whom she now calls a friend. 
 ''I was at a low place,'' Ms. Stallings said, ''and she was there.'' 
 In a series of events that Ms. Stallings described as divine intervention, Catholic Charities drew on the Neediest Cases Fund for almost $1,000. Ms. Stallings then took that money to court and bought herself time, signing an agreement to pay $100 on top of her rent each month to pay off her debt.
 About the same time, Dara found out that she was eligible for unemployment, and Ms. Stallings learned that she qualified for a federal rent subsidy. 
 She received assistance retroactive to August, she said, and her rent problems were mostly settled. She has since been able to concentrate on healing.
 Ms. Stallings, who speaks like a saleswoman with the passion of a preacher, has been spending time with her family and neighbors, and focusing on the future. 
 Every morning, she cooks breakfast for a 94-year-old neighbor. People from around Starrett City have given Ms. Stallings food and clothes, and she feels she may soon be ready to counsel other women with cancer. Meanwhile, Dara is engaged to be married.
 Ms. Stallings does not let her illness bother her, she said. Her biggest worry is that her daughters are not ready to live without her. But as a Christian, she said, she believes that she will never die but will merely leave this life for another. 
 ''It's not a punishment for me to leave,'' she said. ''It's a promotion.''

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $5,367,663.05
Recorded Thursday: $99,985.51
Total: $5,467,648.56
Last year to date: $5,095,335.37


GRAPHIC: Photo: Carole Stallings, 52, in her apartment in Brooklyn. She was told in June that she had incurable cancer. (Photo by Angela Jiminez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); FAMILY (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); CHARITIES (65%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

ORGANIZATION: Catholic Charities

PERSON: Monica Potts

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006



199 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 749 words

PERSON: Harry Magdoff

HEADLINE: Harry Magdoff, Economist, Dies at 92

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Harry Magdoff, who fell in love with Marxist thought at 15 and became an influential socialist economist, author, editor and commentator -- and, some said, a Soviet spy -- died on Jan. 1 at his home in Burlington, Vt. He was 92.
 His son, Frederick, announced the death. 
Mr. Magdoff, in his 1969 book ''The Age of Imperialism: The Economics of U.S. Foreign Policy,'' argued that the United States had an empire in all but name. His contention that American imperial ambitions, not anti-Communism, provoked the Vietnam War struck a responsive chord during that conflict. The book sold more than 100,000 copies and was translated into 15 languages.
 For many years, Mr. Magdoff was co-editor of Monthly Review, a socialist journal, with Paul Sweezy, an influential Marxist economist who died in 2004. Together, they wrote many articles, some published in five books of essay collections. Their combined work, to which Mr. Magdoff supplied the more technical economic analyses, added up to a running commentary on what they deemed inherent deficiencies of modern capitalism.
 Mr. Magdoff also held several influential positions during the Roosevelt and Truman administrations, in which he developed and put into effect new ways of measuring the productivity of labor. His last federal post was as a top aide to Commerce Secretary Henry A. Wallace, a former vice president who ran for president on a leftist agenda in 1948.
 In 1950, Richard M. Nixon, then a congressman, released a report accusing Mr. Magdoff of being part of a spy ring that fed secret economic data to the Soviet Union. Mr. Magdoff declined to answer questions about the allegations at a Senate hearing in 1953 and continued to refuse to talk about the matter in recent years as details emerged from American and Russian archives that some contend added weight to the earlier charges.
 In any case, security concerns made it impossible for Mr. Magdoff to remain in government. He worked at a series of private sector jobs, sometimes under assumed names, including salesman for a television production company, insurance broker and stockbroker, a job that he, as a Marxist, particularly loathed.
 He gained a measure of financial security by acquiring part ownership in Russell & Russell, a publisher of previously out-of-print scholarly books. He taught part time at the New School for Social Research and elsewhere.
 Henry Samuel Magdoff was born on Aug. 21, 1913, in the Bronx, to immigrants from Russia. His father was a housepainter, and one of Mr. Magdoff's earliest memories was the glee with which family and friends greeted the downfall of the czar.
 He remembered that as a child he was perplexed, then enraged, when he heard in a playground that Britain ''owned'' India. At 15, he read Marx's ''Contribution to a Critique of Political Economy,'' which aroused his interest in radical economics. He said his most influential youthful experience was witnessing a demonstration of the unemployed in Union Square in Manhattan in 1930.
 At City College of New York, he studied engineering, physics and mathematics before being expelled in a dispute with administrators over a leftist student publication. The expulsion came after he helped stage a mock trial of the college president and other officials, none of whom attended.
 In 1932, Mr. Magdoff visited Chicago to participate in the founding conventions of the National Students League and the Youth League against War and Fascism. During that trip, he married Beatrice Greizer, known as Beadie, who had been marching on picket lines with her pro-union mother since she was a preschooler.
 Mrs. Magdoff died in 2002 after nearly 70 years of marriage. Their son Michael has also died. In addition to his other son, Frederick, of Burlington and Fletcher, Vt., Mr. Magdoff is survived by a grandson.
 After finishing his undergraduate degree at New York University, Mr. Magdoff went to Philadelphia to work for the Works Progress Administration, trying to solve interesting economic problems.
 ''You sat in an office supplied with research materials and were paid every week to sit and think why there was so much unemployment,'' he said in an interview in Monthly Review in 1999. ''Who needed heaven?''
 In 2004, Mr. Magdoff wrote about his friendship with Che Guevara, one of his revolutionary heroes. At what proved to be their final meeting before Mr. Guevara's death in 1967, Mr. Magdoff asked what he could do to help Cuba.
 ''Keep on educating me,'' was the response.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Harry Magdoff, leftist economist. (Photo by Monthly Review Magazine, 1980's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); WRITERS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); IMMIGRATION (71%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); POLITICS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

RICHARD NIXON (56%) Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (73%) VERMONT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

CATEGORY: Economics

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006



200 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Mapplethorpe Travels to a Laid-Back Cuba

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: HAVANA, Jan. 9 

 BODY:
The Cuban government has not exactly been tolerant of homosexuality. In the late 1960's, for example, gay Cubans were sent to labor camps and homosexuality was derided as an illness of the capitalist past.
 Even today, transvestites are sometimes detained and threatened with prison.
 But a new tolerance over the last decade has led to what many believed they would never see on the island: the work of Robert Mapplethorpe, the American photographer known for his homoerotic images. 
 The ''Sacred and Profane'' exhibition, which opened last month at a recently restored gallery in the heart of Old Havana, features 48 photographs spanning Mapplethorpe's career. It runs through Feb. 15.
 ''I never thought I would have this experience in Cuba, to see Mapplethorpe's work firsthand,'' said Ricardo Rodriguez, a 35-year-old photographer. ''When people told me this exhibit was coming, I didn't believe them.''
 Mr. Rodriguez said his surprise stemmed from the fact that Mapplethorpe was gay, American and highly controversial even in his own country.
 In 1990 the Contemporary Arts Center in Cincinnati and its director were charged with obscenity for exhibiting Mapplethorpe's photographs. Both were acquitted, but the case prompted a national debate over using government funds for the arts. Conservative lawmakers and religious fundamentalists attacked the National Endowment for the Arts for subsidizing Mapplethorpe shows.
 ''It's incredible to see him here,'' Mr. Rodriguez said.
 As for the images themselves, most agreed they were more serene than shocking.
 ''Pure sensuality,'' Farah Gomez, a 26-year-old art historian, said of the black-and-white images portraying flowers, female body parts and nude black men.
 Ricardo Alarcon, president of the Cuban National Assembly and one of the country's highest-ranking officials, agreed, saying Mapplethorpe ''achieves the transmission of a purely artistic message and sense.''
 ''Frankly, this really doesn't strike me as a sexual exposition,'' he said in an interview. ''Nudity is found in cultures dating much further back than the United States or Cuba. Classicism is full of the nude human body.''
 Mild hints of sadomasochism pepper the exposition, which also features images of two men kissing, the actress Susan Sarandon holding a child and a young Arnold Schwarzenegger in his bodybuilding days.
 Another photograph shows the profiles of an albino man and a black man with a shaved head. The eyes of the albino are open, his gaze drifting off the photograph; the black man's eyes are closed.
 Mapplethorpe's self-portraits express some sadness, showing the deterioration in his health before he died of AIDS at 42 in 1989.
 The turning point in what seems to be the government's new tolerance toward homosexuality, which came with the limited economic and social liberalization of the mid-1990's, is often linked to the release of the 1994 hit film ''Strawberry and Chocolate.'' The movie explores the friendship between a naive young Communist and a highly educated gay Cuban who is in love with his country but at odds with his government.
 Several Cuban artists have started tackling some of Mapplethorpe's themes in the last decade, including Rene Pena and Eduardo Hernandez Santos. 
 The Mapplethorpe exhibition, which does not include his roughest images, embraces the photographer's internal contradictions, said Philip Larratt-Smith, a New York-based Canadian, who organized the show with the help of Pamela Ruiz, who is based in Cuba.
 ''His work toys with the polarities of masculine and feminine, insider and outsider, personal and political, subjective and objective, black and white . . . and of course, sacred and profane,'' Mr. Larratt-Smith said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ricardo Alarcon, president of the Cuban National Assembly, at ''Sacred and Profane,'' an exhibition of Robert Mapplethorpe's photographs. (Photo by Jorge Rey/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); AIDS & HIV (78%); HISTORY (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); RELIGION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (73%); MEN (68%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (66%); OBSCENITY (66%); FUNDAMENTALISM (65%); POLITICAL DEBATES (65%); ART HISTORY (63%); WEIGHTLIFTING (50%) Photography; Homosexuality

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (54%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%) Robert (1946-89) Mapplethorpe

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%) OHIO, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (94%) Cuba

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006

 
