

1 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 16; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4674 words

HEADLINE: Does She Speak for Today's Women? -- Patricia Ireland, President of NOW

BYLINE: By Jane Gross; Jane Gross is the San Francisco bureau chief of The New York Times.

 BODY:
With fist raised and eyes hard as flint, Patricia Ireland will lead an angry army of women down Pennsylvania Avenue in April. They will be protesting an assault on abortion rights, defying a conservative judiciary and a hostile Administration and telling America that the National Organization for Women is tired of hearing that feminism is a dusty relic or a dirty word.
It will be a hard sell on all counts for the new president of NOW. A former airline stewardess and corporate lawyer, Ireland has taken the reins of the country's largest and most prominent women's rights group at a time of national anxiety about gender issues, the feminist movement and the organization itself. 
 Can a contrarian group like NOW, with its rabble-rousing leaders and its antagonistic rhetoric, carry the flag of women's rights into the next century? Can a complex woman like Ireland, with an activist's self-righteousness and an attorney's deliberate ways, find a new voice for NOW that stirs its longtime loyalists but resonates, too, for a broader range of women?
Other feminist leaders give Ireland an early thumbs-up despite confounding revelations about her personal life -- she has both a husband and a female companion -- that have disturbed women across the ideological spectrum and stirred old animosities within NOW.
Ireland says it is her very ability to be all things to all people that makes her the right leader for these contradictory times, when women recoil from the feminist label while simultaneously donating record sums to women's rights organizations.
"I'm a hybrid," Ireland says, and she points to a recent day that perfectly captures what she calls the "dichotomy" of what she is aiming to do.
It was the anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision, the Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortion, an occasion marked in myriad ways in the nation's capital. In the morning, while leading a counterprotest outside an abortion clinic, Ireland was jostled and spat upon by Operation Rescue zealots. In the afternoon, every hair back in place, she attended a seminar of Constitutional lawyers at a hotel in Washington and joined them in parsing the intricacies of abortion law.
"I want it all," Ireland says. "I want to do everything. I don't see why I can't have my cake and eat it too."
In December, Ireland became the ninth president of the 250,000-member National Organization for Women. NOW was founded in 1966, when newspapers still advertised male and female jobs in separate columns, airlines fired stewardesses who married and some states prohibited waitresses from working at night. In the intervening quarter century, when NOW was all but alone in defining the issues, women entered the labor force in huge numbers, joined previously off-limits professions and fought discrimination in higher education, in access to credit and in sports. But while the daughters of NOW's founders take for granted their right to play Little League, fly to the moon or qualify for a mortgage, they still cannot count on secure abortion rights, equal pay or government-subsidized child care. They are depressed at trying to hold the line on rights they thought had already been won and disheartened to have hit the glass ceiling at work.
They have spent the last year watching "Thelma and Louise," reading "Backlash" and listening to the testimony of Clarence Thomas, Anita Hill, William Kennedy Smith and Patricia Bowman. And they have told the men in their lives what they used to say only to one another: "You don't get it. You just don't get it at all."
Meanwhile, a growing chorus of women says hard-edged groups like NOW drag the movement down and alienate more people than they inspire. Some of that criticism comes from predictable quarters. Beverly LaHaye, the president of the right-wing anti-abortion group Concerned Women for America, claims that "NOW is a militant fringe whose priorities, such as lesbian rights, are alien to most women."
But criticism has also come from within. Betty Friedan, NOW's founding president, has repeatedly said the organization has assumed "too narrow a focus," become stuck in the quicksand of its early platform and failed to address problems of a new generation of women who are juggling jobs, husbands and children.
Lately, commentators for major daily newspapers, among them Sally Quinn in The Washington Post, have taken up Friedan's cudgel, lauding her for breaking ranks and challenging orthodoxy. "Like Communism in the former Soviet empire," Quinn wrote, "the movement in its present form has outlasted its usefulness."
Such remarks leave Ireland alternately furious and depressed. She is quick to cite a series of polls that show a vast majority of American women support a strong women's movement, regardless of what they call themselves. "I don't think the fight is over. We're still in a situation where someone has to raise the issues that make people uncomfortable, the issues that other people don't want to talk about. It is my very strong belief that it's healthy to be angry at the situation women face. So, yes, we may be militant and angry but we're also thoughtful and intelligent."
Ireland says she has been tempted to respond to the rash of feminism-is-dead stories with an op-ed screed of her own, but has decided to let the events of the next few months speak for themselves. A large turnout for the Washington march on April 5 and the victory of female candidates in November, she says, will hush the critics. "The best way to prove our strategy is by our successes."
CRITICISM OF NOW'S "MILITANT" approach may have less to do with Ireland than with her predecessors: Molly Yard, an 80-year-old firebrand who has been subdued by a stroke, and Eleanor Smeal, who at 52 continues to cast a long shadow over the organization that she led for nearly a third of its history. The 46-year-old Ireland is unapologetic about carrying on the ideological legacy of Yard and Smeal, her longtime mentor. But she will bring to the role her own particular style, replacing hot rhetoric with cool grace and humor.
"We lead public opinion, we do not follow it," she says sharply, and her elfin face takes on the austere, schoolmarmish cast of many of her photographs. "That's who we are. Sure, it has its down side. Taking a leadership position makes people uncomfortable. But my ultimate value isn't comfort. My ultimate value is progress for women."
Ireland says she will continue to push the terms of debate until ideas that now seem radical, as abortion rights and day care once did, are embraced by the mainstream. She says she will not allow NOW to become "another Washington lobbying group" making humble courtesy calls on Capitol Hill and "begging men for our rights."
She will not "shut up and be a good girl" when, in her view, legislative compromise guts bills like the Civil Rights Act of 1991, which limits monetary damages to women in sexual-discrimination cases but was nevertheless endorsed, however tepidly, by other women's organizations.
And she says she will take a leadership role in organizing a new political party, to pressure both Democrats and Republicans, as George Wallace's American Independent Party did -- despite scorn from Washington insiders: "I don't want to play with the boys anymore. There is total gridlock in Washington. Our entire government is an obstacle. Fie on both their houses."
It is this loss of faith in the existing political system that dictates Ireland's strategy, which focuses on protecting and reclaiming abortion rights, electing new leaders who will support social legislation and bringing economic pressure to bear on the private sector.
One scheme would replicate a NOW election project in Louisiana last fall, in which sympathetic candidates were recruited and supported. The action tripled the number of women in the state legislature, from three to nine, elected a female lieutenant governor and defeated an anti-abortion attorney general. The women drawn to the polls by NOW's campaign also voted overwhelmingly against David Duke in the race for governor. California, Florida and Illinois are probable targets.
Ireland also plans an all-out push by unconventional means to gain passage of the Family and Medical Leave Act, vetoed in 1990 by President Bush under pressure from the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers. She will "pull the lobbying reports" of those organizations, see who bankrolls them and encourage boycotts and information campaigns against the offenders.
Another, more speculative plan is for a television network, a la Pat Robertson's, devoted to feminist issues. Or a feminist version of "America's Most Wanted," in which women would tell stories of abuse by employers, corporations and the like, and viewers would be encouraged to boycott the offenders' products.
Then there is ad-hoc civil disobedience, pulled together as events warrant, to protest adverse Supreme Court rulings, Presidential vetoes or legislative inattention to women's issues. This is a highlight of Ireland's program and one she is preparing for with periodic training sessions in which NOW activists around the nation are schooled in nonviolent, mannerly street theater that will not alienate potential supporters. Some of the civil disobedience will be somber, Ireland says, like violating Federal law to lay a wreath on the steps of the Supreme Court in memory of women who died at the hands of illegal abortionists. But some will be witty. Perhaps, she says, NOW will send its members to the High Court chamber during arguments in key abortion cases and fill the hall with orchestrated laughter. "What do pompous men hate more than being laughed at?" she asks.
This smart-alecky question gets to the heart of what distinguishes Ireland from her predecessors -- soapbox orators with great rhetorical power but little humor. Ireland delights in puns and mimicry and tells self-deprecating stories that diffuse tension.
A case in point was her reaction, and that of her oh-so-serious troops, to a recent profile in The Washington Post that began by explaining, in Ireland's own words, her preference for flat-heeled shoes. NOW's members, assembled in Washington for the group's 25th birthday celebration, were up in arms about this example of the news media's trivializing of women.
"Can we move on to my hair and my clothes?" Ireland asked them, and laughter replaced the relentless carping. Ireland's appearance also sets her apart from past NOW presidents, especially Yard, who rarely smiled and favored shapeless clothes and a grandmotherly bun. Ireland has a winsome smile, a perfectly sculptured pageboy and a sleek wardrobe accumulated in her days as a partner in a Miami law firm. She hates makeup, because it makes her eyes itch, but dutifully wears it for television appearances and visits to Capitol Hill. And her voice is sweetly modulated, especially when she is trying to win a point or have her way.
Some in the organization who favor Birkenstocks, backpacks and braying at opponents find Ireland's glossy exterior politically incorrect, but she doesn't cower. "I'm willing to shock and offend people by taking a stand on an issue," she says. "But we're asking people to do scary stuff. We're saying things that make people squirm in their seats. It's not smart to make people uncomfortable for reasons apart from the issues."
THESE ameliorative skills are the legacy of Ireland's years as an airline stewardess and a corporate lawyer. Hired by Pan American when she was 22, Ireland learned to calm ruffled passengers, collect their garbage while chirping "thank you, thank you" and, as she was told during training, be an asset to her husband's career. At the Miami law firm of Stearns, Weaver, Miller, Weissler, Alhadeff & Sitterson, which she joined when she was 30, she learned to bring warring parties to the table and negotiate multimillion-dollar deals.
Ireland's childhood in Valparaiso, Ind., was ordinary on the surface. Her father was a metallurgical engineer who loved his profession and communicated that passion, and her mother a housewife with a talent for replacing door frames and building tree houses. Ireland came away with two lessons: work should be something that "turns you on" and "what women did was a lot of heavy construction." Later, Ireland's mother was a volunteer counselor at the local Planned Parenthood affiliate, and eventually its director.
Those years were marred by one terrible tragedy. When Ireland was 4 1/2, her 7-year-old sister was killed in a horseback-riding accident. The child died in her father's arms, Ireland recalls, after being dragged by a galloping horse with her foot caught in the stirrup. "He never, never got over it," Ireland says. Her mother then set to the task of adopting two girls. The adoption process was a bureaucratic nightmare, but her mother never let up, calling the caseworker every week, polite but persistent.
Ireland's early resume mirrored those of her contemporaries, who came out of college without career plans, took traditionally female jobs and eventually moved into heretofore male professions. After attending DePauw University in Greencastle, Ind., and graduating from the University of Tennessee, in Knoxville, in 1966, Ireland stayed on for a year of graduate school, preparing to be a German teacher.
Married by then to James Humble, a fellow student, she hated graduate school and decided "to go fly an airplane and have some fun." It was at Pan Am, in 1968, that she had her first feminist awakening, when the airline refused to provide dental insurance for her husband, a vestige of the days when stewardesses could not marry. Ireland took her complaint to the local NOW chapter, which referred her to the Labor Department, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and the union. Within weeks, her husband's wisdom teeth were removed at the company's expense.
The victory was a demonstration that, as she says, "a little knowledge of the law goes a long way." And so while continuing to work as a stewardess on weekends, she enrolled in law school and started volunteering at NOW.
Her husband took mischievous pleasure during NOW's birthday celebration in noting his role in the organization's history. At a concert by the Women's Philharmonic at the Kennedy Center, he opened his mouth wide and asked, "Want to see how this all started?"
Ireland, too, made mischief out of history, chronicling what happened to the principal players in the dental dispute. "The vice president of the labor task force at Dade County NOW is now the dean of women lawmakers in the Florida Legislature," she said. "I am the president of NOW. And Pan Am is bankrupt."
The years she spent at Pan Am gave Ireland boundless respect for women in traditionally female jobs. "It is emphatically clear to me how hard women's work is and how little it is valued," she says.
She is equally sensitive to the way professional women can be diminished, as she was as a law student in the mid-1970's, first at Florida State University in Tallahassee and later at the University of Miami. The trusts and estate professor lectured about "the little woman" who might squander her inheritance on "a man with a wax mustache." And the property textbook said that "land, like a woman, was meant to be possessed," a phrase that was removed after Ireland protested to the publisher.
The precision demanded of her by law honed Ireland's logical skills. She will need them in the executive suite of NOW, a chaotic organization widely ridiculed for lurching from crisis to crisis. Among those rooting vigorously for Ireland's success are some former NOW employees, staunch believers in the group's agenda who could no longer tolerate working at a place where every day felt like an election campaign in its final hours.
In her years at the law firm, Ireland worked as pro bono counsel for Dade County NOW, handled other unpaid anti-discrimination cases and helped corporate clients draw up affirmative-action plans. In 1987, she was elected executive vice president of NOW, a full-time paid position, and left Miami for Washington.
Since then, commuting back and forth, Ireland has had two distinct private lives, one in Florida with Humble, her husband of 25 years, who is a painter, and the other in Washington with a woman who has asked not to be identified because she fears losing her job.
Ireland says she hopes the discussion of her personal life will dispel the myth that most Americans live in traditional families. "There's still this concept of Mom, Dad, Dick, Jane, Spot, Puff," she says. "But there are really all kinds of arrangements people make in their lives."
The timing of the revelation about her personal life, just as her presidency began in December, was not her choice, and Ireland would have preferred to serve effectively in her new post for a while before telling her story. But her hand was forced by The Advocate, a gay-and-lesbian publication that threatened to "out" her if she did not cooperate with an interview, Ireland says.
Ireland's cryptic description of her living arrangements -- in the Advocate interview she declined to label herself either a lesbian or a bisexual -- seems to have made a messy situation messier. Some of NOW's lesbians (who by some estimates represent between 30 and 40 percent of the membership of 250,000) were offended because they wanted her to declare herself one of them. Heterosexual members were unhappy because they had hoped their pretty new president would dispel rumors that the organization was a gay bastion.
Molly Yard said her successor's worst sin was adultery ("I didn't like it when Gary Hart did it and I don't like it now"), even though Ireland has refused to say whether either of her relationships is sexual, and many of those close to her assume the marriage isn't.
"What I have described is who my family is, not my sexuality," Ireland says.
Ireland doubts there will be lasting harm from her revelation, but if there is, so be it. "Certain people are uncomfortable with it who are otherwise comfortable with feminist issues," she says. "But all of us need to be challenged in our thinking.
"This is how I live my life and I'm not ashamed," she continues. "Here I am. Here's my whole set of skills. You get the parts of me you like and also the parts that make you uncomfortable. You have to understand that other people's comfort is no longer my job. I am no longer a flight attendant."
Ireland seems most dismayed by acquaintances who don't understand why she stays married. She recalls how Humble worked as a block mason when she was in law school to pay the bills. She talks of his great kind ness to her mother when her parents were divorced after 45 years of marriage.
"Why should I have to untwine from someone who has been my family since I was barely an adult?" she asks.
At workshops during the birthday celebration, NOW members agonized over the issue. Tensions about its prominent lesbian cohort have bedeviled NOW since its beginnings. Friedan has been accused of purging the organization of its lesbian members, calling them the "lavender menance." She still chafes at the charge. "I've never objected to anybody's private life or sexual preference," she says. "But I resent a diversion of energy into turf battles and sexual circuses."
Ellie Smeal, who was accompanied to the birthday party by her husband and grown daughter, says "people have been calling us dykes for years" as a way of discrediting NOW's message. "They think if they paint us as battle-axes and man-haters, they'll contain us."
Many of the younger, heterosexual women at the Washington celebration said they could not convert others to the cause of women's rights because of the perceived equation between feminism and lesbianism. Older women, particularly those who are openly gay, howled in protest. "This issue is explosive!" one said. "It must be defused, within our own group as well as in the public domain. We need to say: 'So what? Take your epithets and shove them!' "
Karen DeCrow, a former NOW president, has a calmer perspective on the fevered debate. "As an organization dedicated to ending gender-role stereotyping, we must be sensitive to discrimination against gays and lesbians," she says. "There is an important intellectual link between eliminating sexism and eliminating homophobia."
NOW has never had an openly gay president, in part because lesbians chose not to run, to spare the group negative publicity. Among NOW activists, who often saw her with her female companion, Ireland was understood to be gay. Her husband, who spends most of his time in Miami, was unknown to many of her movement colleagues. There has been wide speculation, which Ireland will not discuss, that she was "outed" by someone within NOW who thought it was time to end the charade.
HISTORICALLY FOR NOW, the lesbian issue has been second only to the issue of whether the group should play an inside-the-Beltway game or stay outside. The latter was all but resolved in 1985, when Judy Goldsmith, then NOW's president, was ousted from office.
Her sin? Seen as a puppet of the Democratic Party, she compounded the issue by dining with Walter F. Mondale during his run for the Presidency and urging him to choose Geraldine A. Ferraro for the No. 2 spot on the ticket. But accomplishing what she set out to do did not win Goldsmith kudos from her comrades. "NOW is about being on the outside and shaking the foundations of the ruling class," said a Washington lobbyist who works closely with several women's groups. "Judy misunderstood the role of the organization. She went to dinner at the Mondales' and got drummed out of the corps. Hey, Andy Young talked to the Palestinians and he was fired. Sadat made peace with the Israelis and he was shot."
Within months, Goldsmith was replaced by Smeal, who had served once before as president, in a palace coup that is the piece de resistance of NOW's fractious history.
Goldsmith was the only past president to skip NOW's birthday gala. In a telephone interview from the University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point, where she is an affirmative-action consultant to the chancellor, Goldsmith warned Ireland not to risk the same fate: "She has my experience to look to. The organization is still very much under Ellie's control."
Ireland knows what she faces. "There are folks who want to see if when push comes to shove I'm my own person or Ellie's girl," she says. Ireland's plan: to seek the wisdom of her elders, not antagonize them needlessly and gradually chart her own course.
One area that already shows signs of changing under Ireland's regime is NOW's role in coalition politics. Whereas NOW was once synonymous with the women's movement, it is today one of dozens of organizations, many of them NOW's progeny, that work together on legislation, judicial nominations and events like the April march. That diverse coalition includes, among many others, the National Abortion Rights Action League, the American Association of University Women, the Girl Scouts, Business and Professional Women/USA and Catholics for a Free Choice.
"NOW is the organization that raised America's consciousness, which was an enormous contribution, but it is no longer by itself in shaping change," says Kate Michelman, president of the National Abortion Rights Action League. "They must find a way to adjust to this new reality without losing their edge." That edge, many in civil rights and women's groups agree, is essential to social change, just as H. Rap Brown's fury was essential to the public's embrace of Martin Luther King.
"This is how we learn as a society," said Anne L. Bryant, executive director of the American Association of University Women. "You need both leaders and followers. NOW selects the issues that are harder to hear. They push the edge out and then an A.A.U.W. comes along and sounds reasonable."
Heather Booth, the director of the Coalition for Democratic Values, sees a similar dynamic: "First they're ridiculed, then attacked, then dismissed. Then what they're pushing for occurs and becomes the accepted norm. By then, they're on to the next level of debate." A case in point is day care, a NOW priority in the late 1960's and early 1970's. President Nixon dismissed it as a Communist plot that would lead to the Sovietization of America; now even conservative Republicans favor it.
Whether NOW's intransigence helps the legislative process is a trickier question. "Legislation is a herculean feat," says Marcia D. Greenberger, co-president of the National Women's Law Center. "The compromises required are extraordinary," particularly in an Administration when passing social legislation typically means not only getting a majority but overriding a Presidential veto. And compromising has never been NOW's strong suit. "They are impatient with legislating as a strategy," says Judith L. Lichtman, president of the Women's Legal Defense Fund.
Others say NOW's unwillingness to make deals keeps onerous legislative compromises at a minimum. Ralph G. Neas, the executive director of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, has jousted with NOW repeatedly over provisions that other women's groups swallowed graciously, like the cap on damages in the 1991 Civil Rights Act. Still, Neas says that "you always have within a coalition a creative tension, and the ultimate legislative product is many times much better because of it."
Some of those who have dealt with NOW over the years find its unremitting indignation debilitating. "They're like angry black people positioned to be so outside that they're left with nothing but their anger," says a coalition-group leader who insists on anonymity. "It's exhausting. I'm not that guilty. You're not that guilty."
Another coalition member, who also wants to remain anonymous, agrees. "They are perpetually at a fever pitch so they can't even hear you," she says, adding that NOW frequently offends its sister organizations by forcing its will on others rather than seeking consensus.
But Ireland is hailed by other women's rights leaders as someone who listens. "Molly, God love her, came in with an agenda in mind, and it didn't matter what anybody else said," says Bryant. "Patricia floats ideas and wants feedback. She says: 'I'm thinking of doing this. What do you think?' Her style will benefit the organization, if only by contrast."
THAT STYLE WAS PUT TO the test recently when NOW began to hammer out the details, with its coalition partners, of the April abortion rights march, their first joint venture under Ireland's administration. NOW wanted to use the occasion as a stage for civil disobedience, an idea that left the others dismayed.
Michelman, of the National Abortion Rights Action League, called the dispute "a defining moment." Speaking on behalf of the majority, she reminded Ireland that this was an election year, with the entire women's rights agenda at stake.
"We are not going to participate in shooting ourselves in the foot," Michelman said. "We are not going to set ourselves up to be marginalized again, because we are not marginal. You can do what you want but we do not have to stand by you."
Ireland mulled over the objections during the next week, and weighed the coalition's threat to denounce the march. She polled her board and took the pulse of her membership, which does not look kindly on leaders who capitulate -- or seem to. She considered and reconsidered, listened and argued, thought and thought some more.
And then she chose a course of action that could make or break her presidency and change the face of the women's movement for years to come.
"We will not not do civil disobedience," Ireland says. "But we will do it at some other time and in some other place. And this bodes well for all of us in the women's coalition. Greater respect for each other's agendas is part of what I'm working toward."

GRAPHIC: Cover: Patricia Ireland at a fund-raising event for NOW in Greenwich Village. (Photograph by Mark Peterson/J. B. Pictures for The New York Times); Photos: Trying to keep feminism on the fast track: Ireland at her office in Washington. (pg. 16); Ireland (center) led a candlelight vigil outside the Supreme Court on Jan. 22, the 19th anniversary of Roe v. Wade. (pg. 17)(Photographs by Stephanie Maze for The New York Times); Ireland's relationship with a female friend prompted a cover story in The Advocate, a gay-and-lesbian publication. (Mark Peterson/J. B. Pictures for The New York Times); With her husband of 25 years, James Humble. (Jon Kral/The Miami Herald); As a stewardess in the late 60's. (pg. 18); Some of feminism's first ladies. From left, Eleanor Smeal, former NOW president; Ireland; Anne L. Bryant, executive director of the American Association of University Women, and Alice Cohan, political director for NOW. Ireland (with back to camera) holds a staff meeting at NOW headquarters in Washington. (Photographs by Stephanie Maze for The New York Times)(pg. 19); Celebrating 25 years of NOW: Ireland (center) with ex-presidents Molly Yard (left) and Eleanor Smeal. (Photograph by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 54)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (NOW) NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (84%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (84%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY WOMEN (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (NOW) NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (84%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (84%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY WOMEN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FEMINIST MOVEMENT; WOMEN; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (92%); WOMEN (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); ABORTION (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LITIGATION (77%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (76%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); AIRLINES (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); LABOR FORCE (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%); 

PERSON: IRELAND, PATRICIA; GROSS, JANE; IRELAND, PATRICIA (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) PATRICIA IRELAND (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



2 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 12; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: The Mocking 'Do'

BYLINE: By William Safire

 BODY:
I know you don't often 'do' punctuation," writes Rebecca Warburton of Victoria, British Columbia, "just as many domestics don't 'do' windows, but I notice you place periods and commas before a terminating quotation mark, regardless of whether the period or comma is actually part of the quote. Prevailing practice now seems to place all punctuation marks outside the quotes; is this a sign of ignorance?"
I have already taken a stand on the placement of periods. "Here's where I stand on period placement." In that case, the period goes inside, at the end of the quoted sentence. "Now let's try it with the period outside". That makes the period look like a lonely end; it's a no-go. What about this, though: "Here's my stand," say I, "on what punc-junkies call 'period placement'." Right in the middle, between the marks that end the inside quote and the whole quotation, because it completes the quoted sentence and, besides, it looks right. 
 Now here comes a more controversial one. Should it be: I won't go along with "the easy way". (Internal quote, period outside the marks.) Or: I won't go along with "the easy way." (Internal quote, period inside.)
I say: Take the "hard way". Instead of following an inflexible rule, use logic: A period is supposed to be placed at the end of a complete sentence. Put the period outside the quoted part if the quoted part is not a complete sentence.
Most copy editors in the United States do not agree with this common-sense, graceful British usage. As Allan M. Siegal, the New York Times panjandrum on style, has said, "American usage, sanctioned by all the major stylebooks, places all commas and periods inside the quotes and all colons and semicolons outside; in American usage, only the placement of exclamation points and question marks is governed by logic."
Enough of that controversy; the reason Ms Warburton's letter appears today is that she uses do in a mood we shall call the teasing transitive.
"Let's do lunch." (The stylebook and I agree the period goes inside.) That is the pseudo-invitation extended by Hollywood producers while kissing the air a foot from the cheeks of wrinkling starlets they want never to see again.
This usage of the transitive verb do usually has no article (a, an, the) between the verb and its direct object (lunch). Students do homework (including doing fractions to prepare for the arithmetic test), and recruits do push-ups; Rich Little does impressions; Liza Minnelli will do requests if she can get a cosmetician to do makeup and a hairdresser to do hair. Mike Tyson will do time.
Do followed by a direct object may have begun with do penance, a Roman Catholic locution, around the 13th century, soon followed by do business. Within seven brief centuries, the International House of Pancakes was advertising, "Nobody does breakfast like IHOP does breakfast." (That's where the stylebook puts the period; makes no sense.)
A curious turn came in this usage, perhaps after domestic servants began informing employers, "No heavy lifting and I don't do windows." (Logic suggests the period belongs outside the quotes because the quoted sentence is only a part of the complete sentence.) British students have long used "I do history" to identify their major.
When the movie industry made it a vogue usage, the ridicule began: "Book people, incidentally, still have lunch," wrote Jay Jacobs in the January 1985 Gourmet magazine, "in an era when other professionals speak of doing lunch." A year later, in Science 86 magazine, Lynn Crawford wrote: "Cattleman Scott Kleberg is a modern-day cowboy. He has a secretary and an office. He takes meetings and does lunch." (Me: "Objection!" Stylebook: "Overruled.")
These citations were provided by Fred Mish at Merriam-Webster, who notes: "In print, at least, do lunch seems to be used somewhat mockingly to characterize the language of others, so it may be that un-self-conscious use is waning. We have more from 1985-87 than from 1988-91." ("Obj----")
The lexicographer sees it as a special application of the "consume, use" sense of do that emerged in the 50's and early 60's, and here is the key: Like so many locutions today, this is rooted in narcotics lingo. "Do you do drugs?" began as a guilty insider's question, and led down to the Gehenna of doing lunches.
The teasing transitive may be on the wane in Hollywood, but it is doing fine in Washington, the other show-biz capital. Those who use it, however, are outnumbered by those who notice it and quote it to show its user's show-biz background. "We don't do touchy-feelie retreats and psychological profiles of each other," an unidentified White House official scornfully told Ann Devroy of The Washington Post recently. "We do politics. And right now," he added, in the light of recession statistics, "we do panic."
(Look, fellas, I did it three times running your way, with the period after a quoted phrase inside the quotation marks, and it puts form before function. H. W. Fowler ducked this controversy in his long entry on "stops," but as for me, not. Henceforth, whenever the quote is part of a longer sentence, I will put the period outside the quotation mark. Changing it to conform to the stylebooks will take a positive action on your part. After a while, you'll start missing some, and then word will get around it's O.K. -- just as Ms Warburton has noted, and you'll never hold back the logical flood. Let me show you how natural it looks, and just this once let it go through.)
"And right now," he added, "we do panic".
 
 
 
DIG THOSE DIGERATI
A WHITE PUFF OF SMOKE HAS gone up over Lexicon Central: we have a coinage!
"I call your attention," writes Jason McManus, editor in chief of Time Warner, "to a neologism to me: digerati. This occurs in the New York Times Business section in an article by John Markoff, who refers to George Gilder's writings as being 'taken seriously among the computer digerati.' It did make me smile with appreciation in the trust it was Mr. Markoff's invention to lighten up a highly technical story."
Literati, Italian for the Latin litterati, "learned," means "the intellectual set." In the late 1930's, a portmanteau word was formed to blend the world of glittering celebrities with these intellectuals: glitterati.
Now all that glitters is digital, from the Latin for "finger," and later applied to a number that can be counted on the 10 fingers. Hence, digerati, "computer intellectuals," a word sure to flash through the world's electronic mailboxes.
My colleague Mr. Markoff confirms that the term was first used in his story, but -- honest fellow -- attributes coinage to the usually anonymous "backfield" editor, Tim Race.
The coiner has the right to set down the definition. According to Mr. Race, it goes: "Digerati, n.pl., people highly skilled in the processing and manipulation of digital information; wealthy or scholarly techno-nerds."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: ON LANGUAGE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); CANADA (73%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); CANADA (73%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE HOMEWORK (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM REBECCA WARBURTON (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



3 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 31; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2038 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION;
Dick Wolf Breaks and Enters With 'Law and Order' on NBC

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
On a steel-gray, frigid morning, the cast and crew of "Law and Order," the only network television drama filmed entirely in New York City, has set up shop in Chinatown. It's the first day of filming on an episode about the murder of a Jewish man by three young blacks. The investigation by police and prosecutors, played out against burgeoning racial hysteria in the city, provides an unexpected twist by the end. Thus the story line conforms to the ripped-from-the-headlines, imagined-into-fiction format that has made "Law and Order" popular enough to be a scheduling weapon for NBC.
A speech-heavy, and occasionally disquieting, variation on television's well-worn solve-the-crime genre, the series splits the hour in half. It opens on the streets with a police investigation and ends in the courts with a prosecution. "Law and Order" was recently slid from its 10 P.M. Tuesday slot, where it regularly won the time period, to 9, where it does battle with the hugely popular "Roseanne" on ABC. And though the move has cost the show some viewers, NBC believes that its audience will find it again by the time the fall season begins. Critics have found "Law and Order" intriguing, challenging, generally well written, suited for the literate, upscale audience it appeals to. The series ranks a respectable 44th among the more than 100 prime-time shows. 
 The scene on the street is a familiar one, trailers lining the curbs, wires littering the pavement, camera and lights strewn about. Everyone is scruffily dressed, and the atmosphere is jocular.
In the center of it all, however, is the one discordant note, a middle-aged man wearing a dapper beige overcoat, a red tie with a prominent gold stickpin and incredible alligator shoes. His limousine is nearby. People come up to shake his hand, share a belly laugh, suggest an idea for a story. Stamping his feet for warmth, he's keeping his good humor, but there's a grouse on his mind: Hollywood's new austerity. The budget for the show has been reduced by $200,000.
"I'll give you a list of things I no longer have," he says. "No second unit days. No stunt overtime. These days, if somebody has a headache you're over budget."
The boss is in town from L.A.
This is Dick Wolf, the creator and executive producer of "Law and Order," who is on the verge of becoming one of the industry's most successful producers of television dramas, in the company of Steven Bochco and Stephen J. Cannell ("Wiseguy," "Hunter," "The A Team"). If Mr. Wolf appears both comfortable and out of place on the Chinatown set, that's in character. A writer and a businessman with a bicoastal history, a Democrat whose trademark show nonetheless slouches to the right, a guy with a cop series that's almost all talk -- Dick Wolf straddles many divides. Should the chips fall his way, he will have four series playing on prime time in the fall, which, if not unprecedented, is remarkable at a time when hourlong dramatic slots on the networks are dwindling.
In addition to "Law and Order," he has three shows scheduled to debut. "The Human Factor," a series about medical ethics set in a teaching hospital, will have its premiere on CBS in the spring. A science-fiction fantasy, "Mann and Machine," about a policeman and his partner, a beautiful woman cyborg ("It's 'Moonlighting,' " Mr. Wolf says. "Imagine the possibilities."), begins a trial run on NBC at the end of April. And "Crime and Punishment," half about criminals, half about cops, also for NBC, is slated to debut after the summer Olympics.
"In the world of dramatic TV, there are precious few guys like Dick," says Warren Littlefield, the president of NBC Entertainment. "He's a consummate salesman. And he can deliver. For each and every show, he can create a look and a vision."
Mr. Wolf, who spent eight years in the advertising business, is an unmoored New Yorker, 45 years old. "Age appropriate," he says with a laugh, about his success. It's a clever, cryptic truth: he's neither too young to be precocious and resentable nor so venerable as to be richly deserving. He's got those peculiar TV smarts; he can hold creative craft and commerce in his mind at the same time, the sort of intellectual feat that was impossible before pitch meetings were invented.
Mr. Wolf was a writer on several series, including "Hill Street Blues" and "Miami Vice," before he made his name with "Law and Order," now in its second season. He was responsible, at least in part, for the prototype episodes of all four of his own series. He doesn't write regular episodes of anything anymore, though he reads every script and passes along notes to the hands-on folks. On "Law and Order," he says, "mostly my responsibility is dealing with the network and looking after the 175 people who work on the show."
On the one hand, "Law and Order" is simply an amalgam -- the cops track someone down and arrest him in the first half-hour, the prosecutors send him up the river in the second. On the other hand, there's some genuine innovation: a lot of hand-held camera work, for instance, that gives the feel of documentary. And there are few, if any, establishing shots.
"There are no shots of the cops getting out of the car and going into a building," Mr. Wolf says. "We cut from meat to meat. The ideal 'Law and Order' cut is somebody saying, 'I don't know what happened that night. Louie left at 10 o'clock.' Cut to Louie with the two cops: 'So, Louie, where'd you go at 10:05?' "
None of the personal lives of the six regular characters are dramatized. In fact, there's very little dramatic action at all -- no car chases, no shootouts. It's all process -- how do clues lead the cops (played by Paul Sorvino, Chris Noth and Dann Florek) to catch the crooks? And how do the prosecutors (Michael Moriarty, Richard Brooks and Steven Hill) pick up the ball from there? It's an often-tortuous trail of bread crumbs.
The result, particularly for first-time viewers, can be irritating, a fact Mr. Wolf says he was well aware of before the show hit the air. "Believe me, this was of grave concern to the network," he says. "They said, 'You know, there's not a lot of action.' And I said, 'If this show works, in five years these guys are never even going to fire a gun. For better or worse, it's going to depend on the words.' "
If you added the establishing shots, the personal lives and all the rest, Mr. Wolf says, "each half-hour would be an hour. The way it is, each half-hour has enough story content in it for an hour cop show or an hour lawyer show."
Of course, this condensation is not entirely for the benefit of the viewers. After five seasons, Mr. Wolf says, he'll be able to sell the episodes for syndication in both hour and half-hour formats, an attempt to get around the difficulty hourlong dramas face in the syndication market. "The second half-hour is slightly shorter than the first," Mr. Wolf says. "So you can run the cops one night, and the next night the lawyers, with a synopsis. You know: Last night on 'Law and Order. . . .' "
That "Law and Order" is a New York show is the pride of all who work on it.
"I never would have done another television series if it didn't film in New York," says Paul Sorvino, the portly veteran actor -- and native New Yorker -- who plays Detective Phil Ceretta. Mr. Sorvino is talking between takes on the Chinatown set. A large and vivid figure, he is dressed in a stylish overcoat and fur hat -- the image of a police department achiever, unmistakably Gotham in manner and mien. The same is true for Chris Noth, who plays Ceretta's partner, Mike Logan. Today, fresh from hanging out with some real-life detective pals, Mr. Noth is regaling whoever will listen with the gruesome details of an investigation popular in the tabloid headlines: a little girl found dead in a discarded refrigerator.
"I'll give you my notes," he tells Mr. Wolf. "Bing bang boom. Great show."
Mr. Stern, who is responsible for the look and feel of "Law and Order," says that rather than pummeling the viewer with famous New York landmarks and panoramas, the show is designed to make subtler use of the city. "You get glimpses of the buildings through windows," he says. "And you know you can't be anyplace else. And you're always hearing the city. The traffic. The voices. The cops have a New York accent."
Mr. Stern says one advantage he has is the local acting pool. "We have 30 or 40 speaking parts per episode, three to five times what most shows have," he says. "In New York, there are more really good actors you've never heard of than you'll find anywhere."
Perhaps a more subtle reflection of the city is the show's curiously conservative bias -- a "law and order" stance, so to speak -- that taps into the widespread frustration with crime and impatience with law enforcement. Unlike, say, "L.A. Law," where creases in the judicial process are exploited and matters of conscience debated endlessly, on "Law and Order" the prosecutors are positively conviction-happy and favor harsh sentences. In one signal moment, Assistant District Attorney Stone (Mr. Moriarty) says, "In the criminal justice system, if it's legal, it's ethical."
"Michael almost choked on that line," Mr. Wolf says. "You'd have a hard time finding anybody who associated with this show who would identify himself as a conservative Republican. But we have an accurate depiction of law enforcement's professional attitudes. There are no atheists in foxholes, and there are very few liberals in the district attorney's office."
In the current economic atmosphere, all of this New York stuff is getting harder to protect. It costs $75,000 to $80,000 more an episode to film in New York City than anywhere else, Mr. Wolf says, a difference he ascribes entirely to local labor costs. The budget for the show has just been trimmed, from $1.4 million to $1.2 million an episode, the result being that there's an average of one less scene each quarter hour than last season.
Finally escaping the cold, Mr. Wolf climbs into his limo and heads uptown. He's meeting with an actor up for a role in "Crime and Punishment." That show was also written for New York, but he has just gotten the news that he won't have the budget to film it here. He'll have to rewrite it for Los Angeles.
"The economics are fiercely unforgiving now, and shooting here is a luxury not perceived as a necessity for the success of the show," he says. "Except in our eyes."
 
 
 
ON THE BEAT
 Chris Noth tells a story about tagging along with Manhattan's 34th Detective Squad on an investigation into the disappearance of a woman. They went to the apartment of her roommate, and the roommate had a reasonable alibi, "but the whole place smelled of Pine Sol," Mr. Noth says. "The guy's explanation was the cat had been missing his litter."
Later, Mr. Noth recounts, on the way downstairs, one of the detectives said: " 'I can't get over the fact that I smelled death up there. Let's go back.' " The punch line, of course, is that they found the body in the apartment.
"The detective smelled death," Mr. Noth says, admiringly. It's that kind of instinct he's out to embody, he says, in the character of Detective Mike Logan on the NBC series "Law and Order."
Mike Logan, handsome, edgy, is meant to be a quintessential New York character, an aggressive, occasionally hotheaded and, not incidentally, Irish cop. But Mr. Noth, who is 35 years old, is less of a native. Although he currently lives on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, he was born in Wisconsin and grew up in Stamford, Conn., and later, Los Angeles. He came to New York with a girlfriend when he was 18 and worked for a while at a school for the mentally retarded.
After graduating from Marlboro College in Vermont, where his ambition was to write ("A poem begins in delight and ends in wisdom," he says, quoting Robert Frost), he attended Yale Drama School. Before "Law and Order," he had an occasional part on"Hill Street Blues"; his one movie, "Jakarta," was a bomb.
"People make a big deal about my hanging out with detectives for this part," he says. "But that's an actor's job. That's like saying to a carpenter, 'Why do you use hammer and nails?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dick Wolf -- From advertising to prime time, writer to honcho. (Steve Goldstein for The New York Times); Chris Noth, left, and Paul Sorvino on the set of "Law and Order" -- The show makes subtle use of New York. (NBC)(pg. 31); Chris Noth -- Poet cop. (NBC)(pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Review

TITLE: LAW AND ORDER (TV PROGRAM)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (60%); MOVIE FILMING (58%); 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE; WOLF, DICK MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



4 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: SUNDAY VIEW;
'Crazy for You' Is Splashy, But Magical Would Be Better

BYLINE: By DAVID RICHARDS

 BODY:
"Crazy for you" has everything a 1930's-style musical comedy could want, except a leading man and a leading lady.
It features more than a dozen songs by George and Ira Gershwin -- some that are already etched in your memory; others, just out of the trunk, that in all likelihood you'll be hearing for the first time. The Technicolor sets, courtesy of Robin Wagner, recall the glory days of M-G-M, when M-G-M boasted the best sound stages in Hollywood for singing and dancing. Most impressive, it allows an abundantly gifted choreographer, Susan Stroman, opportunities galore to indulge her talents on a grand scale. 
 But where is the leading man in this -- the combination song-and-dance man, comic and general charmer, who can not only keep up with a frisky musical but is also capable of pulling out in front of it, showing the way, leading, in essence?
The task has fallen to Harry Groener, who plays Bobby Child, a dapper New York playboy sent by his wealthy mother to foreclose on a theater in Deadrock, Nev. Instead, he tumbles for the prettiest girl in town, the only girl in town, actually, and decides to save the theater by putting on a show. Mr. Groener's industriousness cannot be faulted for a moment. If hard work alone made you a star, he'd have his rightful corner of the firmament. He does all that's required of him, ably, proficiently.
What he doesn't do, however, is charge the atmosphere in the Shubert Theater. To stoop to the show's level of wit, Astaire is called for and Mr. Groener . . . is a half-step. For all the sparkle thrown off by his blue eyes, he even looks a bit cadaverous in the role.
Does it matter that much? I think so. His blandness inspires nothing but more blandness in his leading lady, Jodi Benson, unless her range of expressions is naturally limited. Ms. Benson, who was the voice of Disney's "Little Mermaid," has a bouncy manner. But her hair is bouncier. The flirtation between these two is lackluster and their clinches are passionless. If you don't buy their romance -- and I didn't -- a gorgeous song like "Embraceable You" goes only so far. There comes a point when they might as well be singing "The Star-Spangled Banner" to each other.
The producers could have had a knockout on their hands, and instead they've simply managed a pleasant evening of escapism to help ease us through the recession. "Crazy for You" is "Me and My Girl" without Robert Lindsay, or "The Will Rogers Follies" on a night Keith Carradine is at home with the flu. Plenty of splashy entertainment everywhere but dead center, where boy meets girl, boy catches girl up in his arms and boy waltzes girl right off her feet.
The musical is pretty much a top-to-bottom remake of "Girl Crazy," the Gershwin brothers' whoop-de-do for 1930, in which Ethel Merman announced "I Got Rhythm" to the startled eardrums of Broadway. That number is one of five holdovers from the original score. From other Gershwin endeavors come "They Can't Take That Away From Me," "Nice Work If You Can Get It" and "Someone to Watch Over Me," although in William D. Brohn's orchestrations, they sound fresh from the mint. The playwright Ken Ludwig has rewritten the inane story and rejuvenated some arthritic jokes, or tried to. (Cowboy: "I ain't seen so much excitement around here since my horse foaled." Dumb chorine: "Wow! It must be hard to fold a horse.") Being a great one for mistaken identity -- remember the double Otellos in "Lend Me a Tenor"? -- Mr. Ludwig obliges the hero to masquerade in Deadrock as Bela Zangler, a Florenz Ziegfeld clone. Then, of course, the real Zangler (Bruce Adler) comes crawling over the desert sands into town.
No one's going to be permitted to complain of too little. To that end, a reputed $7.5 million has been spent, re-creating the New York theater district by night; down-at-the-heels Deadrock by day; an 1884 opera house before and after a face lift; and an Art Deco dreamscape, by way of Busby Berkeley, that elevates Mr. Groener and Ms. Benson to the starry heavens. Despite the refurbishments, though, "Crazy for You" purposefully clings to a 1930's outlook: it has no content, other than performers performing. Or, if you want to be precise about it, performers performing performers performing. Chinese boxes almost. At the least, theater inside theater.
In this context, the corniness of the jokes doesn't really matter, as long as someone engaging is cracking them. The story need not surprise us, merely allow the cast to charm us. Personality counts for everything here. It greases the wheels, lifts a familiar ballad to the realm of the unfamiliar, adds a particular human shine to the bright lighting. So why, oh why, has the director Mike Ockrent surrendered the choicest roles to the least charismatic of actors?
It is indicative that the best numbers in "Crazy for You," the real audience-rousers, are group numbers. Ms. Stroman would be welcome in any season, but at a time when the ranks of Broadway choreographers have dwindled tragically, her emergence on the scene is the equivalent of the cavalry arriving in the last reel. As she has already demonstrated in the Off Broadway revue "And the World Goes 'Round," she has an uncanny ability to reinvent the standards by introducing into them a few unexpected props and a slightly off-center attitude. In "Slap That Bass," she fashions bass fiddles out of strands of rope and perky chorus girls. For "I Got Rhythm," the first-act finale, she has the company sliding, rat-a-tat-tat, over panels of corrugated tin, tap-dancing on metal sieves normally used for panning gold, and swinging back and forth on pickaxes as if they were the pendulums of so many grandfather clocks.
Instead of the traditional stairway to paradise, the cast members construct a mountain out of the gilded chairs in Deadrock's opera house, then scramble gleefully to the summit in "Stiff Upper Lip," a spirit-lifter that also takes a sly dig at the student revolutionaries mounting the barricade in "Les Miserables." The sheer athleticism of Ms. Stroman's choreography is a bracing reminder of Michael Kidd's. At the same time, she has the soul of a romantic who gets a big thrill out of a couple just swaying cheek to cheek under a pink-and-powder-blue sky.
The tighter the focus is on Ms. Benson and Mr. Groener, however, the more prosaic the show becomes, although I suppose "What Causes That?" must be considered at least a partial exception. The number pairs up Bela and Bobby, who, remember, is disguised as Bela, right down to the trim goatee and the silver streak in his skunk-black hair. Both men are heartsick, both hung over from the night before, both still befuddled enough to think, when they look at one another, that they're gazing in a mirror. The synchronized dance they do together couldn't be looser, the gentlemen being a bit unsteady on their feet. It's one thing to have the Rockettes behave with machinelike precision. What Ms. Stroman is synchronizing here is a lack of control, a queasiness that's capable of a few sudden, antic lurches. Brilliant notion, brilliantly executed by Mr. Groener and Mr. Adler, too.
Mr. Ockrent's staging is far less imaginative when it comes to giving the cliched characters even an appearance of novelty. As Bobby's jealous fiancee, Michele Pawk is standard-issue vixen, whose most original gesture consists of lying back on a saloon table and kicking her leg so far over her head that she knocks the saloonkeeper, seated behind her, off his chair. Jane Connell harrumphs predictably as Bobby's mother, and the chorus girls are of the gum-cracking, smart-talking variety, recycled from dozens of musicals about Broadway.
What you haven't seen on stage before, I venture, is their striding entrance into Dead rock. Arm in arm, their colored dresses swishing about their calves, they surge out of the desert and advance gaily on main street. For a moment, you could be watching one of those 1950's movie musical previews that showed the line of smiling stars who would be in your neighborhood playhouse the next week, if they didn't push the camera aside and step off the screen right then and there.
That's Ms. Stroman's work for you -- and not to be missed. As for "Crazy for You," it may be the first Broadway musical ever that left me eager to catch the replacement cast.
 
'Private Lives'
 Some tiny part of me -- the incurable optimist, I guess -- held out hope that Joan Collins might put her television persona momentarily aside and act the character of Amanda Prynne in Noel Coward's "Private Lives." Or at least give it a stab, go through a few motions. But that hope evaporated five minutes after she made her first entrance on the stage of the Broadhurst Theater the other night. Miss Collins is immutably Miss Collins. A monument, of sorts. You might as well expect the Arch of Triumph to turn into the Great Pyramid of Giza. It just ain't gonna happen.
However, this does make the question of whether to attend "Private Lives" an elementary one. Here is an unparalleled opportunity to watch Miss Collins, in the living flesh, sit down, stand up and move around. Those who are going to seize it already know who they are and don't need me and my two cents. For a couple of hours they will get to study Miss Collins's makeup, as artful as that of any Kabuki performer, contemplate her glamorous gowns and reflect on the reddest fingernail polish I, for one, have ever beheld. If that were not enough, the woman "Dynasty" made world-famous also sings a little and does the splits.
That a play is unfolding at the same time does not distract from the evening's deeper purpose. Miss Collins blots out her fellow actors (Simon Jones, Edward Duke and Jill Tasker) with a self-absorption that is remarkable in its fashion. While her performance isn't extroverted enough to leave her open to charges of being a showoff, you can't deny that she has approached "Private Lives" purely as a pretext to show herself off.
And she does. Look, she's leaning on the grand piano. Ohmigosh, she's putting her feet up on the sofa. Isn't that a cigarette she's lighting now? The wonders never stop.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harry Groener is surrounded by, from left, Paula Leggett, Jean Marie, Ida Henry, Pamela Everett and Judine Hawkins Richard -- Mining for Gershwin gold. (Joan Marcus/"Crazy for You"); Drawing: The songs of the Gershwin brothers, Ira and George, at top, are part of the musical "Crazy for You" at the Shubert Theater, with a cast that includes, from left foreground, Jodi Benson, Harry Groener, Jane Connell and, upper right, the Manhattan Rhythm Kings -- The choreography by Susan Stroman is not to be missed. (Drawing By Al Hirschfeld)(pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CRAZY FOR YOU (PLAY); PRIVATE LIVES (PLAY)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); DANCE (75%); INFLUENZA (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARDS, DAVID HARRY GROENER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



5 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 5; Page 23; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Redrawing the International Air Map

BYLINE: By SUZANNE MacNEILLE; SUZANNE MacNEILLE is a journalist who specializes in travel. Timothy S. Bralczyk assisted with research for the maps.

 BODY:
WITH the demise of three major United States airlines last year -- Eastern Airlines, Midway Airlines and Pan American World Airways -- and the recent filing for bankruptcy protection by Trans World Airlines, a new hierarchy is emerging in the volatile airline industry, particularly on routes between the United States and Latin America and the United States and Europe. The events gave impetus to a process that has been going on for nearly a decade, and now Delta, American and United are steadily and sometimes dramatically expanding their reach into foreign skies once dominated by Pan Am and T.W.A.
The most recent airline to go under was Pan Am, a company that since its founding in 1927 had a seemingly unshakable association with world travel. Unable to muster the financial strength to service its Latin American and Caribbean markets, which the airline had hoped to continue operating after giving up its trans-Atlantic routes, the airline died in December with little advance notice. The shutdown disrupted the winter travel plans of thousands of passengers headed to the Caribbean and various points south, and made many people wonder what was becoming of the airline business. 
 The division of the Pan Am spoils has done much to contribute to the changing personas of the two airlines that have gained the most from its demise: United, currently in the process of solidifying control over Pan Am's Latin American operations, and Delta, which bought most of the airline's trans-Atlantic routes, as well as Pan Am's Northeast shuttle last fall for $416 million and assumed liabilities.
Before it started flying Pan Am's European routes in November, Delta served only 12 cities on the Continent from 4 American gateways: Cincinnati, Dallas-Fort Worth, Atlanta and Orlando. Now, with the acquisition of rights to fly to 18 new European cities (many reached via the strategic Kennedy International Airport, a right Delta also acquired from Pan Am), Delta has more than doubled its European destinations -- to 32, including 5 in Eastern Europe and two independently developed routes into Spain.
Delta has also acquired other Pan Am assets, including routes into Bombay, Delhi, Moscow and Tel Aviv, many of them served through its new Frankfurt hub, yet another acquisition from Pan Am. Delta's ads say the line flies to the most cities across the Atlantic, and a spokesman for Delta, Clay McConnell, says the airline "is now in the process of consolidating its European service." But, he said, the airline also anticipated the opening of a new hub in Taipei in 1993, which would undoubtedly open up a whole new network of international flights, further magnifying Delta's international presence.
 
Taking Over Pacific Routes
 Scarcely a week after Pan Am expired, United, which had already acquired Pan Am's London routes, came up with the winning bid, $135 million, for the airline's Latin American operations. With that move, United, according to Kevin Murphy, an analyst with Morgan Stanley, managed to "take on the old Pan Am infrastructure," in the process becoming "the only global airline," with flights crisscrossing the Pacific (many of which were acquired from Pan Am in 1985), the Atlantic and now Latin America. Latin America was essentially new territory for United. Before the acquisition, the airline's only flights there were to Mexico City and Cancun.
United is still awaiting permanent authority from the Department of Transportation to fly its new routes; in the meantime the airline has been granted temporary clearance for some flights, including those from New York and Miami to Caracas and from New York to Trinidad, which, with great advertising fanfare, it started in January. By the end of the first half of this year United hopes to be flying to 11 Latin American countries. Besides the Latin American routes, the package also includes rights to Pan Am's Miami-Paris run, and landing and takeoff slots at three key domestic airports: Chicago's O'Hare International, Washington National and La Guardia.
 
A New No. 1 Airline?
 United could very well supplant American Airlines, which in recent years has been regarded by the Air Transport Association of America as the largest United States airline (using "paid passenger miles"), followed by United, Delta, Northwest and Continental. In 1989, American built on its growing reputation as an international carrier when it bought many of Eastern's old routes into Latin America. In 1991, the airline also acquired T.W.A.'s authority to fly in and out of London's Heathrow, a key airport for international tourism. In the past year American has started service to Heathrow from various United States cities, including Chicago, New York and Los Angeles. Many of the acquired Eastern routes, including Kennedy International Airport to Bogota, have been or will be inaugurated this year.
Not all the new international activity has been stimulated by the misfortunes of financially troubled companies. Other United States airlines are developing their own new international routes. For example, Northwest, which is continuously augmenting its presence in the Pacific, has just started flying from Los Angeles to Sydney, Australia. Also, this year Northwest began service between Boston and Paris and Minneapolis and Puerto Vallarta, Mexico.
Continental has been attempting to reorganize after declaring bankruptcy in 1990, and has limited itself thus far to six independently developed routes from the United States, including Newark to Frankfurt, Madrid, Munich and Mexico City; Honolulu to Melbourne, and Houston to Paris.
T.W.A., determined not to let itself shrink into oblivion despite its financial woes, has added Seville and Moscow as new destinations out of New York, and is also flying to the Bahamas from Miami -- routes it had acquired from Pan Am's commuter airline, Pan Am Express. USAir, expanding its presence beyond the domestic arena, has added some new European routes, including flights between Charlotte and Frankfurt and from Philadelphia to Paris.
 
The Effect on Fares
 What does all this new international activity mean to the customers? United -- whose spokeswoman, Lynn Martenstein, said in a recent interview that the activation of its new Latin American routes is "evolving as we speak" -- seems to be focusing on opening lucrative business-travel routes into, for example, Venezuela, Brazil and Argentina. United's increased activity in Latin America promises competition with American, the only other big United States carrier in that region, although recent fare checks showed essentially identical prices. For example, the cheapest round-trip ticket between New York and Buenos Aires was $1,222 for both airlines.
The Caribbean, however, "still belongs to American," said Mr. Murphy, the Morgan Stanley analyst. Having lost the active presence of Pan Am, American is now the major United States airline there, responsible for an estimated 45 percent of the total number of passenger seats from the United States and Canada, according to Michael Youngman, director of marketing of the Caribbean Tourism Organization. Despite the increased activity of some regional airlines, including B.W.I.A., as well as new service by other American carriers, among them Trump and Carnival, Mr. Youngman said that until "Pan Am's void is filled, there will be a shrinking number of seats devoted to promotional air fares."
Europe is a different story. Initial consumer fears concerning less-competitive fares to Europe when Pan Am receded from the trans-Atlantic picture have not been realized. Spurred on by the recession here, winter fares offered by some United States carriers, including United and Delta, have been lower than ever -- less than $350 round trip on some flights between, for example, New York and Paris or Frankfurt.
Noting that airlines will be investing $300 million in the promotion of European travel from the United States this year, Michel Bouquier, chairman of the European Travel Commission, said that all the new competition "guarantees competitive fares, at least for 1992, and probably for the next few years." Partly as a result of such low fares, Mr. Bouquier projects that at least seven million Americans will travel to Europe by the end of 1992, an increase of more than half a million from last year.

GRAPHIC: Maps: New or newly acquired major international routes, mainly flying between the United States and Europe or Latin America, are included. Those labeled 1991 are for June to December; those labeled 1992 are for the first six months of the year. Some 1992 routes await Government approval. (Maps by Natasha Perkel/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (88%); GERMANY (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (58%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: EASTERN AIRLINES INC; MIDWAY AIRLINES; PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC; UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES ; TRANS WORLD AIRLINES (TWA) EASTERN AIR LINES INC (92%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: EASTERN AIRLINES INC; MIDWAY AIRLINES; PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC; UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES ; TRANS WORLD AIRLINES (TWA)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (88%); GERMANY (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (58%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BANKRUPTCIES; NYTRAVEL AIRLINES (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (75%); 

PERSON: MACNEILLE, SUZANNE

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



6 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Talking: Damage;
Apartment Repairs: Who Pays?

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
THE question of who must pay for repairs to a rented apartment -- the landlord or the tenant -- has long been controversial.
Tenants say landlords are dilatory in making needed repairs. For their part, landlords complain that tenants, especially in rent-regulated areas like New York City, resist paying for repairs made necessary by their own negligence. 
 Many lawyers say that the courts and regulatory authorities have tended to side with tenants unless the damage was clearly due to a tenant's blatant or repeated abuse of the premises.
But a decision last May by the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the agency that administers rent regulation in New York State, set the stage for a change. The case involved a woman on West End Avenue in Manhattan whose landlord asked her to pay for repairs after his plumber found several swizzle sticks clogging a drain that the tenant had said needed cleaning.
Although the woman paid the landlord the requested $62, she immediately filed an overcharge complaint with the division. But instead of ordering the landlord to return the money, the agency found he had a right to seek reimbursement.
That decision followed a ruling by the Appellate Division, Second Department, in February 1990 that specifically warned the agency that it was incumbent upon it "to determine whether the tenants were negligent" and to take that into consideration. In this instance a spoon, lodged in a dishwasher, caused the motor to burn out.
"Before this time the responsibility was always put on the owners," said Roberta Bernstein, president of the Small Property Owners of New York. "If we tried to charge the tenants we would be accused of harassing them." Now, she predicted, it's going to make many more tenants responsible for what goes on inside the apartment.
In cases where landlords drag their heels on repairs that are their responsibility, tenants have several recourses. They can appeal to the regulatory authorities but they also should send certified letters to the landlord, and follow up with repeated phone calls. On dire occasions, a lawyer's letter may also be required.
But damage caused by the tenants should be approached with caution. Leonard Kaplain, a lawyer in Queens who often represents landlords, has already used the May ruling in a case where the doors to an apartment building had been repeatedly damaged by a tenant. The case was settled out of court -- mostly in the landlord's favor -- based on the division's decision and a provision in the lease specifically stating that the tenant was responsible for any damgage caused by his negligence, said Mr. Kaplain.
This does not mean tenants should rush out to make repairs themselves, or hire someone to do it for them, whether the apartment is rent regulated or not.
Warren Estes, a Manhattan lawyer also specializing in landlord-tenant matters, said owners still have a legal responsibility to keep their rental units safe and habitable.
Moreover, landlords often insist that their contractors make the repairs so they can have their own professional provide a written analysis of the likely cause of the damage, said Robert A. Jacobs, a lawyer in Manhattan with special expertise in rent regulation. This is why some landlords will not let tenants make repairs under any circumstances. In other instances, he said, they may be concerned that the quality of the repair may affect other people in the building.
Further, rushing out to make a repair without the landlord's permission could expose the tenant to liability, warned Andrea Bunis, president of ABR Management, also of Manhattan. "Say, for instance, you had broken the window and decided to replace the pane yourself," she said, "and then a couple of days later if fell onto the sidewalk and injured a pedestrian." If the repair was done without the landlord's permission or by someone who was neither licensed nor insured, she said, the tenant could be held responsible for the injury.
MS. BUNIS therefore advises tenants to immediately notify the managing agent or landlord, irrespective of the cause of the damage. If it's the tenant's fault the landlord may give the tenant the option of handling it personally. If so, she said, there are usually requirements, such as using only insured or licensed contractors or someone from an approved list.
Regulatory officials take the same approach. "As a general rule the owner will be responsible for making the repair," said Nathaniel Geller, assistant deputy counsel for the state housing agency. "But if it's a clear-cut case like the swivel sticks or a request for a reduction in rent because there's been a reduction in services -- like the case of the broken dishwasher -- the tenant will have to pay and we won't grant a reduction in rent." Who actually does the work can be decided between them, he added.
Nor can the tenant hope for relief if he or she refuses to cooperate. In September 1991, the state housing agency denied a request for reduced rent when a Greenwich Village tenant refused to allow access for needed repainting and plastering -- even though the landlord had given the required written notice.
Lawyers also warn that in an emergency, such as a broken water pipe or overflowing bath, the landlord has the right to come in and make the repairs.
To help tenants better understand their responsibilities, Ms. Bernstein has begun to add a rider to the leases for the 50 apartments she owns in Upper Yorkville, reiterating the tenant's obligations. This rider is read and signed by the tenant before the apartment is occupied.
Ms. Bernstein also walks new tenants through they apartments they are renting, making a checklist of current conditions that both sign. It will clearly record, for example, whether the walls were freshly painted and smooth or pocked with holes from the previous occupants. It will also confirm that appliances were clean and working. Such a list, she said, helps avoid controversy. Whenever there is doubt, she will offer to share the cost -- a compromise a tenant could also propose to a landlord.
In unregulated apartments, where the tenant is renting from a private landlord, it is not uncommon for the owner to require the tenant to pay the first $50 or so towards any repair, regardless of the reason for the breakdown.
The aim is to motivate the tenant to take good care of the apartment and everything in it. Such a charge is legal, lawyers say.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; HOME REPAIRS REAL ESTATE (90%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); APPEALS COURTS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



7 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 3; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Owners' Seminar;
Can Sun Set on Controls?

 BODY:
"Constitutional Challenges to Rent Control: Is It Time?" That will be the topic of discussion at a luncheon Tuesday sponsored by the Community Housing Improvement Program, a building owners' organization based in Manhattan.
The speaker will be George Kimble, a Los Angeles lawyer who has participated in several major cases that have resulted in the overturning of rent-control statutes. He is also involved in a case now before the United States Supreme Court, Yee v. Escondido, that deals with mobile homes and rent control. 
 "If there was a time when the rationale behind rent regulations in New York could be challenged, this is it," said Michael Kerr, the chairman of the Community Housing Improvement Program. "At a time when rents have been falling for three years and real estate is in recession, rent controls are a luxury that owners and the city cannot afford."
The luncheon, at the Macklowe Hotel, 145 West 44th Street, will begin at noon. Tickets are $45. Call 757-8975 for more information and reservations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENT CONTROL; RENTING AND LEASING RENT CONTROL (94%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); SUPREME COURTS (88%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (88%); LAWYERS (73%); MOBILE HOMES (72%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



8 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: Perspectives: High-End Condominiums;
Reaching for an Older Style of Apartment

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
WHATEVER Gerald Guterman had in mind, it was probably not what Jack C. Heller is doing at the former Adams Hotel on the south side of East 86th Street near Fifth Avenue.
Mr. Guterman is the aggressive and overextended conversion specialist of the 80's who lost most of his property to his lenders. Among these was the Adams, at 2 East 86th Street. Mr. Guterman had already started redevelopment work when the Fidelity Bank of New York, based in Garden City, L.I., foreclosed. 
 The buyer that emerged in December 1989 was Heller Equities. Now, in partnership with Investcorp International, the investment group from the Persian Gulf region that acquired Saks Fifth Avenue in 1989, Mr. Heller is overhauling the 23-story building, creating a condominium with large, lavishly appointed apartments that harken back to the prewar style in apartment layouts.
The Borough President's office approved the developer's application for a change of address to 1049 Fifth Avenue, although the site is separated from Fifth Avenue by buildings on the avenue. The corner plot is occupied by a large town house, 1047 Fifth Avenue. An arrow on a plaque newly placed on the town-house facade may help confused visitors, mail carriers and delivery people find their way to the 86th Street entrance of the condominium.
The special interest in the project lies in Mr. Heller's attempt to market 45 apartments in the 53-unit building (8 apartments remain occupied by renters, consolidated on lower floors) at the highest end of the sales market in a sluggish sales period.
Except for two apartments, prices range from $1 million to $7 million, but most apartments are priced between $2 million and $4 million. Two lower-floor apartments are being offered for $745,000 and $885,000. Most apartments are being priced at $800 to $1,500 a square foot, Mr. Heller said. The average for the building is $1,100 a square foot.
For so many new apartments to be on sale at such prices in the shell of a 1920's building is a first for the Manhattan condominium market. It calls attention to the depth of the market in the last few years for condominiums selling for over $1 million.
In number of sales, the market has shrunk since the mid-80's and stabilized in the last year. But as a percentage of total sales these high-priced apartments are more than holding their own against more modestly priced condominiums. And their prices have held up fairly well also.
Figures compiled by Yale Robbins, the real-estate publishing and consulting firm, show that there were 100 condominium sales for more than $1 million in Manhattan last year. That is down from 178 in 1989 and 162 in 1988, but about the same as the 104 sales in 1990.
When the total sale prices are analyzed, it turns out that the average prices per square foot were about $780 in 1989 and 1990, and $753 on last year's 100 sales. The highest average prices were achieved by Trump Tower at 721 Fifth Avenue, where 11 apartments transferred at an average of $1,000 a square foot, the Yale Robbins data show.
But the sales volume of expensive units as a percentage of the volume of all Manhattan condominium sales has risen. Condominiums selling for more than $1 million constituted 16 percent of the sales volume of $1.9 billion in 1989. Last year, they accounted for 25 percent of a total volume of $650 million.
That suggests that the market for more expensive condominiums is holding up better than the market for cheaper units. "It shows that there's more value in the bigger units," said Henry Robbins, a principal at Yale Robbins. It also shows that affluent people, including corporate buyers and foreigners benefiting from exchange-rate conditions, are more insulated than average Americans from the consequences of a weak economy.
No comparable information is available for co-ops because co-op sales are stock transfers that are not publicly recorded, but the picture is believed to be roughly similar there. Larger co-ops have held their value better than smaller ones, according to the Corcoran Report, a semi-annual survey of the Manhattan apartment-sales market.
Mr. Heller has his own report on the condominium market, a sales price index derived from an econometric model constructed by Susan M. Wachter, a professor at the Wharton Real Estate Center of the University of Pennsylvania. It tracks the resale prices of condominiums, starting in 1978, from 50th Street to 86th Street, river to river.
The latest report, covering sales through the end of last year, showed that 1991 prices declined 4 percent from 1990 on total sales that were almost unchanged from year to year -- 2,939 in 1991 compared with 2,902 the year before.
THE generally sluggish sales picture puts the ambitious Heller Equities project to the test. Heller paid $38 million at the foreclosure auction, or about $230 a square foot for a building of 160,000 gross square feet, and has spared little expense to create approximations of prewar apartments. The pure construction costs of the job are said to be running at about $145 a square foot, putting it at a level of cost for a new super-luxury building. The firm of Costas A. Kondylis is the architect and H.R.H. Construction Corporation is the construction manager.
The apartments offer the long galleries and wide foyers, living rooms with connected libraries, dining rooms, eat-in kitchens and several baths. Some of the apartments on the higher floors have fireplaces. Some also have views of Central Park across the low-lying town house of the Yivo Institute for Jewish Research on the Fifth Avenue corner.
Details and amenities are sufficient to gladden the millionaire heart: A heating and air-conditioning system that allows separate climate control in every room, including kitchen and baths; 12 separate telephone lines into each apartment; a coffered ceiling in living rooms and dining rooms, in which overhead beams run crisscross a few inches lower than the ceiling itself, giving a three-dimensional effect; "Chicago" windows, with two hand-operated panels on each side of a picture window; hand-laid rosewood floors with ebony borders and mahogany-paneled libraries with recessed lighting.
There are three units, of 1,890, 2,100 and 2,790 square feet, to the floor on the 7th through 12th floors; two, of 2,400 and 3,000 square feet, to the floor from the 14th to 19th floors, and one, of 3,500 square feet, per floor on the 20th through 23d floors.
The fourth and fifth floors have a combination of new apartment and renters' apartments, and the second floor is given over to medical and other offices. Rather than provide maid rooms within the apartments, the developer has set aside space on the third floor for 16 rooms, each with 150 square feet of space and a private bath, as staff quarters. They are priced at $80,000 to $125,000.
SALES began last November, Mr. Heller said, and occupancy is scheduled to start in July. Five sale contracts have been signed, he said, four by owners of co-ops within a walk of 1049 Fifth Avenue.
In two cases, the buyers are not putting their own co-ops on the market. "They are giving them to their kids," the developer said.
For the city, housing of this sort is a significant source of tax revenue. An analysis of taxes paid at recently finished condominiums at 30 East 85th and 60 East 88th Streets indicates they run at about $9.70 a square foot a year, based on an average assessment of $98 a square foot.
This means, for example, that the average tax this year for an 1,800-square-foot apartment, assessed at $176,400, would be about $17,400.
Mr. Heller, who is 35 years old, is a great-grandson of Charles Sabsevitz, who founded an international coal sales business, known eventually as the Foreston Group of Companies. The privately held company, based in Manhattan and later in Lake Success, L.I., was dissolved in 1990.
In his 20's Mr. Heller went into home building, completing 1,400 town houses, one-family homes and garden apartments at seven sites in New Jersey, on Long Island and in Virginia and Putnam County. In Manhattan, he completed Le Chambord, a 39-unit condominium at 350 East 72d Street, in 1987.
His plan for the future is to focus on Manhattan development. "There's too much travel time when you're building in several different places all at the same time," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The former Adams Hotel, at 2 East 86th Street, is being renovated into a condominium, with a new 1049 Fifth Avenue address. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); GULF STATES (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: HELLER EQUITIES; INVESTCORP INTERNATIONAL INC; ADAMS HOTEL (NYC) FIDELITY BANK HOLDINGS LTD (57%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HELLER EQUITIES; INVESTCORP INTERNATIONAL INC; ADAMS HOTEL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (91%); GULF STATES (57%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); FORECLOSURE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); APPROVALS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); 

PERSON: JACK C HELLER (91%); GERALD GUTERMAN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



9 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 6; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes: Readers' Questions;
A J.P. Morgan Brownstone and a Hospital for Italians

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
This is another in a series of columns answering questions from readers about New York's changing streetscapes.
 
A Gift From J.P. Morgan?
 Q. My landlord tells me that my building at 108 East 37th Street was built as a wedding gift from J. P. Morgan to his daughter. A walking tour guide told me the front of the building was actually construction-grade brick exposed when the brownstone facing was taken off. Are they both right? . . . Ann Shoemaker Maloney, Manhattan. 
 A. Your landlord is at least largely correct, but the walking tour guide is totally wrong. In 1919, Jane Nichols acquired the house, soon living there with her husband, George. They had been married in 1917 in Lattingtown, L.I., with a reception at the house of her father -- J.P. Morgan, a financier who followed in the footsteps of his father, who had the same name and established the Morgan Library.
In 1919, Flintlock Realty, a Morgan-family company, acquired the brownstone at 108 East 37th Street and then transferred it to Jane Nichols. Jane Page, the Nicholses' daughter, said there is no family story about a wedding gift, but that she suspects it is true.
The Nicholses hired the architect Charles Platt to put a new facade over the old brownstone and the soft, carefully chosen face brick is anything but 19th-century construction grade.
 
The Italian Hospital
 Q. Can you tell me about the Italian Hospital on the East River between 83d and 84th Streets? When was it built and what type of hospital was it? . . . Thomas Sullivan, Astoria, Queens.
A. The Italian Hospital was described in The New York Times in 1912 as an entirely new hospital accommodating 100 patients, "erected partly at the expense of the Italian Government" for the "care of Italians who have not learned English." A key figure in the project was Dr. Charles V. Paterno, whose family development firm was already established as major apartment builders on the West Side.
The hospital building itself was actually converted from a four-story factory of the International Bank Note Company. Gaetan Ajello, architect for the Paternos' other building projects, added a floor and made internal changes.
A 1920's view in the Wurts Collection at the Museum of the City of New York shows a very plain, industrial building with a large painted sign facing the river saying, "Please Avoid Unnecessary Noise." Period accounts indicate that the East River channel at this point echoed with whistles and horns from passing water traffic. The building was demolished for the 10 Gracie Square apartment house of 1931, in which the Paternos had no apparent part.
 
34 West 33d Street

Q. There are some unusual finishes on the top floor of our office building at 34 West 33d Street. I've heard there was originally a restaurant there. Is this true? . . . Morton J. Savada, Records Revisited, Manhattan.
A. There was more than a restaurant. According to the Real Estate Record & Guide in 1908 -- when the 12-story building was opened -- the top floor had "meeting rooms . . . social features, restaurant, billiard rooms" for the tenants of the Builders' Exchange, as the structure was styled. Designed in 1907 by Clinton & Russell, the building also had an exhibition hall on the second floor, with 212 stalls rented out for the display of materials and products.

 
 
Patchin Place
 Q. My mother, Margaret Toussaint Nicholson, was born in Patchin Place in 1879. Her father, Charles Toussaint, was chef cuisinier at the Hotel Brevoort, which, she said, built these houses for its French kitchen and dining room help. Can you tell me any more about these houses? . . . Frank Nicholson, Greenwich, Conn.
A. City directories list your grandfather at 8 Patchin Place only in 1879, moving from 155 West 27th Street en route to 96 Grove Street. The Brevoort anecdote, often identifying the kitchen help as Basque, is repeated in many guidebooks, but your grandfather's case is the only one to support it.
The Patchin Place houses were built in 1849 on land that was owned by the Patchin family from 1835 to 1896. However, the Hotel Brevoort was built in 1855 at the northeast corner of Eighth Street and Fifth Avenue by a syndicate that did not include any Patchins or identifiable Patchin relations.
An 1851 address directory for Patchin Place lists 33 identifiable occupations, including varnisher, carpenter, gilder and coachmaker.
Also listed in 1851 are Luke Blakelock, waiter, Alexander, baker and Charles A. Allen, steward, but it is not possible to determine where they worked at the time -- and at any rate the Brevoort was not yet built.
In the 1880 census, 135 residents were tallied on Patchin Place, four of whom were born in France or Spain. Sixty of these listed occupations, but only two of this number were cooks or waiters or similarly employed.
 
The Ziegfeld Theater
 Q. I attended P.S. 69 on West 54th between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, but details of the street have blurred since then. Was there a "Ziegfeld Theater" at the corner of Seventh Avenue? I recall a theater, but the name Ziegfeld does not ring a bell. . .. . Lillian M. Bartok, Manhattan.
A. Florenz Ziegfeld's 1,650-seat theater opened in 1927 at the northwest corner of 54th Street and Sixth Avenue and was replaced in 1969 by the present theater of the same name, part of a large office building. The 1927 building was a masterwork of its period, designed by Joseph Urban. Ely Jacques Kahn, writing in Architectural Record, described it as a building that "cannot be labeled historically."
The auditorium walls were free of the overblown plaster decorations typical of the period and were covered in sinuous, jungle-like murals.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Patchin Place, where the houses were built in 1849. The photograph was taken in 1920. (The New York Public Library); Italian Hospital on East River between 83d and 84th Streets in 1929. (Wurts Collection/Museum of the City of New York); The Ziegfeld Theater at 54th Street and Sixth Avenue in 1927. (The Architectural Record)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: J P MORGAN CANADA (93%); J P MORGAN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (52%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (52%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (52%); ITALIAN HOSPITAL (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: ITALIAN HOSPITAL (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES REAL ESTATE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOSPITALS (86%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); LIBRARIES (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); RIVERS (69%); 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



10 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: In the Region: Connecticut and Westchester;
The Live-Aboard Life: Not for Everyone

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
SAILING off into the sunset on a boat that is also a year-round home comes under the same heading as chucking the urban rat-race to open a country inn. It may be wonderful, but it's not for everyone.
While there are no statistics on the number of year-round houseboaters in Connecticut, nor even the number of marinas in the state, it is believed that there are several boats on which people live docked at most of some 200 coastal and upriver marinas. 
 "There are definitely fewer houseboats than in past years," said Herbert Holmstedt, deputy harbormaster on the Mystic River. "Concern for water pollution has discouraged them." Because there are few pumping stations where waste can be discharged legally from holding tanks, many marinas will not accommodate them.
At Harbor Square Marina in Stamford, slip leases are limited to six months for its three houseboaters -- who are called live-aboards -- enabling the management to get rid of troublemakers.
Houseboating costs about the same as householding. The price of a modest boat, a one-bedroom condominium or an entry-level house is the same -- $40,000 to $150,000. Marina slip rentals, electricity and water average $2,000 a year, less than residential taxes and utilities.
Boat dealers say that this is a good time to buy because prices for new or used boats, like those for houses, are at record lows, and slips -- almost unobtainable before the recession -- are available as more people are forced to give up their boats.
Al Sulla, a licensed charter-boat captain and live-aboard, earns extra income as a boat repossesser for New England Marine Recovery in Noank. "It's a booming market," he said.
"The biggest problem in selling boats now is getting a loan even for qualified buyers with 50 percent down," said Robert Gardella, owner of the Norwalk Cove Marina. Traditional lenders like Chase Manhattan and Union Trust no longer make boat loans. The Essex Credit Corporation in Essex and the First New England Credit Corporation of Norwalk, a unit of General Electric, will negotiate boat loans, but since they sell them to banks, live-aboards are usually rejected.
For those who buy boats outright the life can be idyllic and cheap, given a few adjustments. Fini Buck, for instance, must go ashore all winter to take a shower or use the toilet because the marina shuts off the water to avoid frozen pipes. More expensive marinas supply water all year by wrapping the water lines with electric heat tapes.
Nevertheless, Ms. Buck loves living on her 36-foot cabin cruiser in the Mystic River. "Someday I plan to marry, have children, and the boat is a good investment," she said. "It will give me a down payment on a house." The boat cost $45,000.
"Live-aboards find out real quick what's important in terms of possessions," said Bill Beck, brokerage manager at Rex Marine in Norwalk. "There is no room for anything extraneous." In listing costs he noted that a 6 percent Connecticut sales tax is due when the boat is bought, followed by a $150 annual Federal use tax, and an annual Connecticut registration fee based on size.
Marina fees in Fairfield County run high, around $90 a foot in summer and $35 in winter, or about $4,250 a year for a 34-footer, similar to real estate taxes on a family home.
Three years ago when their children entered college, an eastern Connecticut architect and his wife sold their house and bought a 38-foot sloop now berthed on the Pawcatuck River. "We love the water, and we wanted to simplify our lives," he said, unwilling, as many live-aboards are, to be identified.
"It's a national thing," he said, explaining his reticence to give his name, "a perception that undesirable people live on boats and don't pay taxes." Actually, they pay indirectly through the marina's slip rental fees, just as apartment dwellers pay taxes through the rent they pay to their landlords.
Peter Janssen has lived at Norwalk Cove Marina aboard his 36-foot trawler for three years with his 15-year-old son and 9-year-old daughter. "Living on a boat often happens when a crisis or change occurs in life," he said. In his case, it was a divorce. "It's a sense of starting over," he went on, "a break with everything you knew. But it's foolish to take it lightly. You have to know boating and how the system works. Living at a marina is very different from living on land. It's extremely organized."
AS the editor of Motor Boat & Sailing magazine in New York, and an experienced sailor, he was well qualified to be a houseboater. He would not divulge the price of the boat, but he said his Norwalk marina fees and insurance come to around $3,300. He spends part of the year cruising.
Susan Hurley, who works at the submarine base in Groton, bought her two-story cedar-shingled houseboat four years ago after the death of her parents. "I needed to take a closer look at my life," she said. "This is the best thing I ever did and I plan to live this way indefinitely."
She paid $65,000 cash for the boat. "I couldn't get insurance and without it I couldn't get a mortgage. I must have contacted 20 insurance companies, and when they heard 'wooden houseboat' the conversation ended." Her slip in Mystic, electricity and water cost $375 a month, and she learned to do her own plumbing and repairs. The 14- by 42-foot houseboat never leaves the dock. It has no engine and sits on a wooden hull protected in winter by a removable wooden shoe. Fiberglass boats can survive icy winters without help, although most marinas circulate the water mechanically to prevent freezing.
The Department of Environmental Protection frowns on stationary houseboats because their pollution potential is greater than for navigable boats that can get to pumping stations.
"There are no statutes or regulations prohibiting houseboats," said Yvonne Bolton, senior environmental analyst for the agency in Hartford, "but we have concerns about permanently moored structures."
The department took owners of four such boats to Superior Court last year for failure to obtain required state permits for permanent structures in the water. Ms. Bolton said three were towed elsewhere by the owners and the fourth was abandoned.
Giving up washer-dryers and closet space, contending with heavy weather and rules against dumping garbage overboard are negligible trade-offs for the dedicated houseboater, but as Ms. Hurley put it, "living aboard is never going to become epidemic."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Janssen aboard Daybreak, 36-foot trawler, his year-round home in Norwalk Cove Marina in Norwalk. (Sheila Hill)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); 

COMPANY: ESSEX CREDIT CORP (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOATS AND BOATING; HOUSEBOATS MARINAS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); SALES FINANCING (89%); BOAT DEALERS (79%); BOATING & RAFTING (79%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); RIVERS (75%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); WATER POLLUTION (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



11 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property: Downtown Detroit;
Hines Helps in Living Down a Disaster-Zone Image

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
IN the late 80's, when developers were pouring billions into commercial projects all over the country, David McGinnis, a vice president for development for the Hines Interests Limited Partnership of Houston, was struck by the repeated rejections of downtown Detroit as a development site.
Its disaster-zone image -- drugs, crime, race riots and decay -- had frightened off the smart money. Even the Japanese were investing primarily in the suburbs, which were nearer to their American-based auto operations. Compared with overpriced and overbuilt markets elsewhere, downtown began to look more and more like an out-of-favor stock. 
 Some of the city's prime sites facing Canada from the Detroit River were still grossly undervalued, Mr. McGinnis maintained. Further, city officials were offering a cornucopia of financial incentives. Best of all, there was almost no competition. "We saw good tenants sitting in 65-year-old buildings that were outmoded and obsolete," he said.
Thus he convinced his company that although rents were relatively low and unlikely to rise significantly -- they are still only around $18 a square foot for top-grade space -- lower co nstruction costs and an efficient floor plan could make the numbers work.
This led to the building of One Detroit Center, a glittering neo-Gothic building completed two months ago. It soars 43 stories, has a million square feet of space and was fully leased before completion. Moreover, even before tenants began moving in, preliminary talks were under way for the company to build a twin tower on an adjacent site.
Though decay still stalks the larger metropolitan area, downtown is entering the 1990's free of the excesses of the 80's. Total inventory of 13 million square feet is only 2.5 million more than in 1987. The 13.5 percent vacancy level is among the lowest of any major city center, according to Cushman & Wakefield, the national real estate firm. Those rates are now even lower than the 20.3 percent vacancy levels that have begun to plague the nearby suburbs of Southfield, Livonia and West Bloomfield.
In addition, a 13-year marketing effort by the Downtown Development Authority to pump new life into the 10-square-block downtown area is not only luring new commercial tenants but also generating lively pockets of riverfront residential activity.
INDEED, observers like Andrew R. Bass, a partner with the Detroit office of Arthur Andersen, the national accounting and consulting firm, insist that the strength of the downtown residential activity has been the most surprising. The area has 6,800 units of occupied housing compared with fewer than 1,000 in the late 1970's, according to figures from the development authority.
Much of the appeal has come from the use of "contained communities" -- multi-use development sites that offer apartments, town houses, shopping, health clubs, cultural festivals, restaurants and walkways in a restricted-access environment that offers safety and a sense of neighborhood.
An example is River Place, a 21-acre complex that combines 301 rental units, 770,000 square feet of office and retail space, a health club and a 108-room waterfront hotel. Formerly the headquarters and research site for Parke-Davis, the pharmaceutical company, it was built in the early 1900's as a cluster of four- to six-story red-brick buildings. It has 1,000 feet of river frontage facing Windsor, Ont.
River Place was acquired in the early 1980's by the Stroh family, local brewers, after being abandoned soon after Parke-Davis was taken over by Warner-Lambert. It is now being slowly renovated as a multi-use project offering loft-style offices and homes. Total acquisition and redevelopment costs are estimated at $180 million.
The fact that River Place offers rentals rather than condominiums is typical. Mr. Johnston said it was largely because he could get more financial incentives that way. However, Kenneth E. Dobson, executive vice president of the Downtown Development Authority, maintains that rentals are part of a larger strategy favored by most developers because they offer the easiest way to overcome decades of resistance to working and living downtown.
"RENTING gives people a taste of city living without any commitment," he said. Further, by concentrating on larger, two- and three-bedroom units with plenty of on-site recreational amenities, the homes were intended to duplicate the suburban setting rather than expose the newcomers to urban shock.
River Place has also managed to attract commercial tenants from outlying areas. Some months ago it sold its crown jewel, a majestic 70,000-square-foot building on the waterfront, to Talon, a regional drugstore chain formerly headquartered in suburban Roseville, Mich. The law firm of Marco, Timmis & Inman, currently in Grosse Point, Mich., will become a tenant of Talon. The sale price was not disclosed but Mr. Johnston said it was equal to the sum originally paid for the entire site.
Even so, commercial in-migration is still harder to achieve than finding residential tenants. Most companies taking space in One Detroit Center, for example, are there as a result of what residents call "musical buildings" -- a movement of existing downtown firms from other buildings. And landlords of those buildings, in turn, must now scramble to attract new tenants.
Right now, for example, Alan M. Kirluk, president of Kirco Development Interests and the immediate past chairman of the Central Business District Association, is planning a major renovation for 1 Kennedy Square, an ornate, 23-story office building built in 1911. The catalyst, he admits, was the loss to One Detroit Center in January of a major tenant that had occupied 50 percent of its 319,000 square feet.
Despite all this upbeat activity, most real estate practitionersare guarded in assessing the area's future. Even the city's strongest boosters concede that heavy coverage in the press and electronic media of flagging auto sales and layoffs continue to spill over into a lack of confidence by outsiders in the local property market -- even though auto operations have been decentralized around the country for more than a decade.
Further, there have been two high-profile failures: the 1991 foreclosure of 150 Jefferson Street, a 30-story tower completed in 1983; and the continued financial weakness of the Rennaissance Center, a cluster of five glass-and-chrome towers comprising 2.5 million square feet plus a hotel. The center was built in the 1970's, when downtown Detroit was losing many office tenants to the suburbs, as a symbol of Henry Ford's faith in the city's future.
Some say the Jefferson Street building, although 93 percent occupied, was so costly to build it could never become profitable, given the prevailing rent levels. Others, like Mr. Johnston, insist its only problem was that by the time it was ready to convert from construction to permanent financing it could no longer find a lender willing to make a long-term commercial commitment.
The Rennaissance Center, with its heavy emphasis on dramatic interior walkways alongside the river, is a reputed victim of lavish architecture that turned out to be more like an icon of the city's most distinguished families than a building in search of profitability. "Certainly the loan had to be restructured along the way to ease terms," said Jonathan Powell, a spokesman for the Aetna Life Insurance Company, one of four major insurance companies that hold the financing on the center.
All of which adds weight to prevailing national sentiment that it is tough, although not impossible, to generate profits in downtown Detroit -- an attitude city officials readily admit they have been unable to dispel.

GRAPHIC: Photos: One Detroit Center rising above smaller office buildings; part of River Place, 21-acre complex rehabilitated as residential and commercial space. (Photographs by Andree Brooks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (91%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (91%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: HINES INTERESTS LP (91%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); DETROIT CENTER (80%); DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT CENTER (80%); DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DETROIT (MICH) UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (95%); DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; HOUSING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (88%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); SUBURBS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); TRENDS (72%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (60%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (57%); RIOTS (57%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



12 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7; Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:

A Hybrid Tenancy
 
Question: Two relatives (not husband and wife) are jointly listed on a lease as tenants in a rent-stabilized apartment in a building that was converted into a co-op several years ago. The sponsor of the conversion, who did not sell all the apartments, is now offering them at substantially reduced prices to renters. One of the two relatives in this tenancy wants to accept the offer, the other does not. In such a case, would the nonpurchasing tenant have the right to continue his tenancy under rent stabilization? . . . Itzhak Sharav, Manhattan 

Answer: Yes. According to Joseph D'Agosta, assistant commissioner with the Office of Rent Administration in the state's Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the nonpurchasing tenant would have the right to remain after the sale of the apartment. Mr. D'Agosta said this sort of hybrid tenancy is unusual, but not without precedent.
"In the few cases we have seen where these circumstances apply," he said, "the nonpurchasing tenant pays the same amount of rent as when both parties were rent-regulated tenants. It is usually half of the regulated rent."
However, if for some reason the arrangement falls apart and the residents can no longer co-exist as owner and tenant, it would be up to the courts to determine how the relationship would be dissolved.
 
Noisy Radiators
 
Question: I bought my two-bedroom co-op apartment last spring. When the weather turned cold and the heating was turned on I found myself living in a noise factory. All four radiators in the apartment bang and clank and I can hear the sound of running water. Whose responsibility is it to correct the problem, mine or the corporation's? . . . Herbert Gin, Queens
 
Answer: It would depend on what is causing the noise. According to Marc Luxemburg, a lawyer who specializes in real estate matters and president of the Council of New York Cooperatives, the proprietary leases of most co-ops say that the corporation is responsible for maintenance and repairs to the building's structure.
"This is usually interpreted to mean," Mr. Luxemburg said, "that anything within the walls is the co-op's responsibility and what goes wrong within the apartment is the responsibility of the shareholder."
If the noise is caused by a problem with the radiator, the expense of correcting the problem would be yours. But if a check of the heating system showed that the noise was a result of a problem with the pipes, the co-op would have to pay for the repair work.
You might start by having a heating and plumbing specialist check your radiators. Noise is a common problem in steam-heating systems in older buildings. It could be caused by condensation that collects in the pipes resulting from worn-out steam traps or poor drainage.
 
Rules on Prepayment
 
Question: Often, I included an extra principal payment with my monthly mortgage payment. The lender will wait a month before reducing my principal balance, suspending the extra money in an account called "other" even though I write in the amount of the pre-payment on a line on the payment stub that says "additional principal" and include a note alerting them that the extra money is to be applied to the principal. As a result, for an entire month the extra money is neither earning interest nor is it reducing my principal. Is it legal for a mortgage lender to do this? . . . Gerard McTigue, Fairfield, Conn.
 
Answer: It probably is. The rules for prepayment set by the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, the largest buyer of home mortgages on the secondary market, do not specify how fast a lender must credit such a payment to the principal on the mortgage. According to a Gene Eisman, a spokesman for Fannie Mae, a one-month lag time is not unusual because crediting unscheduled mortgage payments is an extra step in the mortgage servicing process. An officer of Connecticut's Department of Banking says its regulations do not cover this issue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RENT CONTROL (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); LAWYERS (72%); PLUMBING & HVAC CONTRACTORS (67%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH D'AGOSTA (72%); MARC LUXEMBURG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



13 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: New Rochelle Invites Comment On Latest Plan For Davids Island

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE

 BODY:
A MODIFIED plan for the development of Davids Island will be the subject of intense scrutiny on March 9 when the New Rochelle City Council conducts a public hearing to consider extending the developer's exclusive contract to build a $1 billion residential project on the island.
At a special meeting last Tuesday night, Mayor Timothy C. Idoni announced that the Council had completed successful negotiations with the developer, Xanadu Properties Associates, which could lead the Council to extend the contract for five more years. 
 Although the Mayor called the modified plan outlined at Tuesday night's meeting "a major improvement over what was there before," he said he had not decided whether he would vote to approve an extended contract, adding that he and the other Council members would pay close attention to public reaction at next week's hearing.
 
Height Limited to 19 Floors
 The public hearing comes three days before Xanadu's current contract with the city expires and 18 months after the partnership withdrew an earlier proposal when it became apparent that a state agency was preparing to reject it on environmental grounds. The developers had taken similar action once before.
The latest proposal reduces the height of the tallest of four high-rise buildings to 19 stories from 31 stories and limits the other three to 15 stories. It also substantially increases public access and commits the developer to build a tertiary sewage-treatment plant on the island unless the New Rochelle plant is upgraded and the Davids Island project is allowed to connect to it.
There would still be 1,750 condominium units, a 3,465-foot-long bridge to connect the project to the mainland two-thirds of a mile away, a heliport and a marina with 800 boat slips.
To deflect criticism from some of the proposals, the bridge would be thinner and higher than originally planned, and 50 slips would be made available to the public. The heliport, originally was planned on a breakwater extending west toward the mainland, would be moved closer to the island.
The most significant modification is a waterfront public-access plan, consisting of a series of public walkways connected to different-size open spaces, nature walks and gardens running the length of the island's west side, facing the mainland. The walkways would be linked, by a pedestrian walk and bike path on the bridge, to both the county-owned Glen Island Park and the city-owned Neptune Park.
Open public space proposed for the island totals 19.5 acres, or about 25 percent of available acreage, and represents a substantial increase over the previous plan, which would have limited public access to less than one acre.
 
Stimulus or a Blow to Nature?
 Xanadu, a Manhattan-based development concern that has financial support from developers in Hawaii and Japan, has tried unsuccessfully for nearly a decade to win approval for its efforts to build the residential project, the largest and most expensive ever proposed for Westchester's Long Island Sound Shore.
Supporters say the Davids Island project will provide the economic stimulus the city desperately needs while opponents say it will provide the final environmental blow to the already fragile ecosystem of Long Island Sound.
The modified plan presented last week does not appear to have won many new supporters. A visibly angry Stephen A. Tenore, chairman of the County Board of Legislators and a New Rochelle resident, emerged from the City Council meeting calling the new proposal "smoke and mirrors presented with the adroitness of a snake oil salesman."
County legislative support will be needed to approve the sale of 2.3 acres of Glen Island to Xanadu to provide a mainland connection for the bridge, support that Mr. Tenore said does not currently exist.
"The bridge would destroy one of only two county-owned beaches while providing the public with access to a breakwater and a sewage-treatment plant," Mr. Tenore said, adding that the public would not be allowed on the east side of the island where beaches face the Sound. He also said that if the developers receive an extension to the exclusive contract but fail to win approval for the bridge, "development in New Rochelle will be held hostage for another five years."
Robert Funicello, former president of the Federated Conservationists of Westchester County and in the past a leading opponent of the project, said the modified plan offers few changes. "The 1,750 units with the same basic density is still there," he said, "and the bridge is still there."
 
Opposed to Continuing Monopoly
 He is opposed to extending a contract that he said would unfairly continue the monopoly the developer has held to develop the site. Mr. Funicello added: "People would kill for such a deal like that."
Guests attending a special presentation at the New Rochelle Chamber of Commerce last Wednesday were more enthusiastic. "I was very impressed," said Robert J. Streger, president of the 700-member organization. "The demands for public access have been more than met."
Mr. Streger said that if the city had approved the Davids Island plan before now, the city's firemen and policemen might not be facing layoffs.
Gordon Marshall, one of the partners in the development company, said he hoped the modified plan this time would be sufficiently attractive to win state and Federal approval. "We made each change with the intention of winning that approval," he said, adding that he hoped the public would also approve. "We have dealt directly with the perceptions of the public who expressed their dissatisfaction with the project."
 
Other Approvals Needed
 In addition to winning approval from the county, the Davids Island project needs to be approved by the state's Department of State, which supervises the Coastal Zone Management Plan that provides criteria to measure the impact of development projects on the environment.
The project also requires approval by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, which is responsible for issuing water-quality permits, and by the United States Coast Guard, which would need to issue a permit to allow the bridge to be built.
The amended agreement now under consideration by the New Rochelle City Council requires the Davids Island developers to file their plans with the Department of State by June 15, a process that would again start the regulatory clock ticking, providing six months for the state agency to schedule public hearings and make a decision.
Last week, a spokesman for Secretary of State Gail F. Shaffer said the modified proposal reflected "significant changes, and we are certainly encouraged by them." But the spokesman, William F. Brown, said no proposal has been submitted for review, and when it does arrive, "We will give it the same rigorous scrutiny."

GRAPHIC: Map highlighting the location of Davids Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XANADU PROPERTIES ASSOCIATES XANADU PROPERTIES ASSOCIATES (76%); NEW ROCHELLE CITY COUNCIL (89%); CITY COUNCIL (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: XANADU PROPERTIES ASSOCIATES NEW ROCHELLE CITY COUNCIL (89%); CITY COUNCIL (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DAVIDS ISLAND (NY); NEW ROCHELLE (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONTRACTS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MARINAS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (67%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA; IDONI, TIMOTHY C (MAYOR) STEPHEN A TENORE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



14 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Commerz's Trusty Computer

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
Heinz J. Hochmann, chief investment officer for Commerz International Capital Management in Frankfurt, is a portfolio manager who guides his investment decisions from a computer console.
So what? Is a computer jockey better than a savvy portfolio manager without a keyboard? It depends. Some computers do better than humans; some do not. 
 For the investor, it seems to be more a question of style. The choice is between a computer model that chooses its markets with an emphasis on history, and a human who is more likely to tinker with any data-driven decision to try for a better return.
Mr. Hochmann follows set formulas that give his portfolio a rigidly that some investors might not relish. The computer, usually, is not second-guessed. His computer's tastes produce some uneven results, like those this quarter, but a fair return over time.
"This is an investment technique for people who are going to leave the money with us for some time," Mr. Hochmann said in an interview in New York last week. "We sell a structured, disciplined way of decision making; not the superstar approach where the return is based on the genius of one or two managers."
For the first quarter of 1992, the black box churned out an equity strategy that put much of Commerz's $2.8 billion portfolio into French stocks, which have been a great bet. The French stock market, according to the Financial Times index of world markets, is up 11.7 percent in francs this year.
But the computer's conclusions also had Commerz underinvested in the United States, where the market only fell 0.8 percent, and overloaded in Japan, where the market has fallen 9.9 percent.
The computer did kept the portfolio in the black. The big bet in France and Europe offset the "mistakes" in the United States and Japan, Mr. Hochmann said.
However, the dollar forecast, which was generated by another computer model, was way off. Instead of falling, the dollar rose, eating up all the gains made in Europe. And for the first month of the year, the Commerz global portfolio was down 3.05 percent in dollar terms. Commerz's benchmark for performance, the Morgan Stanley Capital Index for world markets, was down only 1.89 percent, because it had more money in the United States and less in Japan.
Commerz's performance proves the computer can be wrong. But in the last three years, Commerz has outperformed the Morgan Stanley index, rising 15.6 percent compared with a jump of 14.5 percent.
And industry data indicates that computers fare just as well as humans. Madelyn Smith, who monitors the performance of both types of portfolio managers for the Frank Russell Company in Tacoma, Wash., said, "I think you would find it's mixed. Some did well and some did not do well."
The difference between Commerz's approach and that of portfolio managers who rely on personal judgment is the discipline of the process, which requires reliance on the computer-driven judgments.
The biggest mistake Mr. Hochmann and his associates have made has been to allow human judgment to override the computer. In the beginning of 1991, they decided that they had to factor in the Persian Gulf War because their clients expected them to. So they kept 25 percent of their portfolio in cash, thinking, as did many other analysts, that stock markets would fall. So when equity markets rallied around the world on the Allied forces' success, Commerz, like many others, was left out.
The Commerz process ranks major stock markets based on valuation factors, like price/earnings ratios and book value, and broader economic forces, like interest rates and liquidity.
When summed up, these measures rate markets in terms of expected growth, with, for example, Japan first, France fifth and the United States tenth.
But Mr. Hochmann and his associates do not dole out their portfolio on this first conclusion. They now employ the computer to see how well the data they have used have worked at predicting the performance of stock markets in the past.
And they review the historical performance of markets when they have had the same computer rankings. This analysis shows that when the Japanese market has been considered inexpensive by the valuation measures, it has not normally had a big rally. So the weight of this measure is downgraded. But these measures have been a more reliable predictor for France, so its market moves up in the rankings.
After a trip through a computer optimizer to further refine the choices, France, for the first quarter of this year, ended up No. 1 in the global portfolio for dollar investors, whether the portfolio is all stocks or divided up among stocks, bonds and cash. Japan dropped to No. 2 and the United States was at or near the bottom.
Mr. Hochmann said that he does not expect significant shifts in the Commerz strategy when it begins its quarterly review in mid-March. Unless the computer says so, there will be no tinkering to make up for first-quarter e "mistakes." So goes the discipline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (90%); GERMANY (88%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (78%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%); 

CITY: TACOMA, WA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: COMMERZ INTERNATIONAL CAPITAL MANAGEMENT RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (82%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%); COMMERZ INTERNATIONAL CAPITAL MANAGEMENT GMBH (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERZ INTERNATIONAL CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (90%); GERMANY (88%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (78%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%); TACOMA, WA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); CURRENCIES (86%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); US DOLLAR (76%); BONDS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; HOCHMANN, HEINZ J HEINZ J HOCHMANN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



15 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2635 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
Rendering Unto Littler Caesars

BYLINE: By TOM SAWYER; Tom Sawyer is a freelance writer based in Brooklyn who covers tax issues.

 BODY:
These are perilous times for state taxpayers. Thanks in large part to cutbacks in financial aid from Washington and to the effects of a lingering recession, the tax burden has become more complicated -- and more costly -- in many states.
One area in which the impact has been particularly dramatic is the Northeast. The income tax rate in New Jersey, for example, is now double what it was in 1990. Connecticut, which didn't have an income tax, got one last year, along with a complex sales tax revision. And proposals to raise New York City taxes on commuters are threatening to ignite a border tax war with both New Jersey and Connecticut. 
 What follows are profiles of taxpayers in the New York metropolitan area and the tangled new tax realities they are facing.
Jim Hannan used to spend four hours on six different trains to get back and forth between his home in Haddonfield, N.J., and his job as a publishing executive in New York City. When it came time to file his taxes, he found that commuting also required a different kind of extra effort.
For example, his tax was apportioned between the two states according to the number of working days he spent in his office in Manhattan, which are taxed by New York, as opposed to days spent attending to business anywhere else, which are taxed by New Jersey. For every day spent in the New York office, he also paid a small income tax to New York City.
"What you have to do is simply keep very detailed records of when you are not doing business in the state of New York," said Mr. Hannan, who is 45 years old.
New York's insistence on capturing tax on income earned within its borders meant that Mr. Hannan did not benefit much from the years in which New Jersey's tax rates were far below New York's.
Now, for the first time in 15 years, Mr. Hannan is unemployed, having lost his job in a corporate restructuring. He is confident of getting another position soon, but just in case, he is working on a plan for opening a business of his own.
That means that Mr. Hannan could end up making most of his income in New Jersey in 1992 -- a case of bad timing, given the state's growing income tax bite. Last year, New Jersey raised its top rate to 7 percent, from 3.5 percent, as part of a $2.8 billion tax package approved in 1990.
In fact, taxpayers in New Jersey -- and in Connecticut -- will have "sticker shock" when they see the bottom line on this year's state returns, said Phil Krevitsky, New York regional director of state and local tax services at the national accounting firm of Ernst & Young. New York is no longer necessarily the high-tax state in the area, he said.
So while Mr. Hannan may be able to kiss his punishing commute goodbye, most of the tax advantages that might have come from earning his income in New Jersey are no more.
So far, though, Mr. Hannan has only "philosophical" anger about Gov. Jim Florio's income-tax policy. Since he was still working in New York last year, his overall 1991 state tax bill is "basically a wash," Mr. Hannan said.
For 1991, his tax filings will involve the familiar drudgery of two-state record-keeping and a state tax bill owed mostly to New York. His is a single-income family of five with relatively few investments and his Federal adjustments and deductions include a home equity loan, a mortgage and real estate taxes.
Few deductions are available on the New Jersey form, however, and none will be applicable to Mr. Hannan. He will get exemptions for the individuals in his household: $1,000 for himself, $1,500 for each dependent and an extra $1,000 for having a dependent in college. Accountants refer to New Jersey as a "gross income state" because its taxes are computed almost directly on that.

 
 
NEW YORK
Paying Up With a Smile
 The New York form Mr. Hannan files as a nonresident includes more adjustments and deductions as it determines his New York Adjusted Gross Income, which includes everything he earns, even if it has nothing to do with New York. New York uses Mr. Hannan's "world-wide income" to find his rate level in the graduated tax tables, and then uses that rate to calculate a tax on his income from sources within the state.
New York used to consider only the New York-source income of nonresidents before going to the rate tables, treating them as if their in-state income was all they made. By using the larger figure, the reasoning goes, the state taxes nonresidents at rates more appropriate to their actual income. The practice has survived legal challenges.
In any event, the highest bracket for joint filers in New York is at such a low income level anyway -- $26,000 -- that overturning New York's practice would not make much difference to most commuters.
But it does show that even after states have raised rates and caught up with their "high tax" neighbors, it remains tricky to compare tax burdens. Comparing the income taxes of New York, with its top rate of 7.875 percent, Connecticut (4.5 percent) and New Jersey (7 percent), is not simple.
By contrast to New York's $26,000 trigger, for example, New Jersey's top rate of 7 percent isn't reached by a married couple filing jointly until their income hits $150,000. And accountants caution that this isn't the only complication, given the different state approaches toward deductions.
"Apples, oranges and pears, you've really got to do separate calculations to see what's going on," said Mr. Krevitsky.
SOME taxpayers take things in stride. They calculate their taxes due and pay with cheerful willingness, no matter how complicated things get. The Franks are just such people.
"You want the garbage picked up and the police on the street, you have to pay for it," said Joseph Frank, a 61-year-old associate professor of engineering who lives in Brooklyn and works in Newark. Dr. Frank is employed by the New Jersey Institute of Technology. His wife, Blanche, 57, also a Ph.D., is chief of epidemiology with the New York State Division of Substance Abuse Services.
The Franks have been preparing their own taxes for many years. Paying taxes to New Jersey doesn't increase the couple's overall tax bill, Dr. Frank said, since the New York rate is still higher. The tax spared by New Jersey's lower rate is taken by New York anyway. (A taxpayer's home state may impose a tax on job-related income generated in another state, less a credit for any tax imposed by that other state. Dividends and interest are taxed by the home state.)
"It's just a little bit more paperwork that's involved, a little bit more of a nuisance," Dr. Frank said of the need to file returns to both states. "The actual amount of money is no different."
Indeed, crossing the Hudson from New York City only adds commuting costs, not taxes, said Karen Mullin, assistant controller for payroll at the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, which is preparing to transfer about 600 employees, many of them New York residents, from Manhattan to new offices in Jersey City.
Miss Mullin said many of the employees who live in New York have been concerned about the personal economic consequences of the move, so her department calculated their withholding amounts before and after the move. "For most New York residents, the bottom line stays the same," she said. "New Jersey residents will see a reduction in taxes, in part because there is no commuter tax like New York City's."
That situation could soon become more complicated because of a threatened "border tax war" between New York and New Jersey. New Jersey State Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat who represents part of Hudson County, introduced a bill Feb. 10 that would impose a retaliatory tax on commuters from New York -- like Joseph Frank -- if New York City follows through on its plan to raise taxes on people commuting there from outside New York State. There have also been warnings that Connecticut would retaliate if New York acts. The city wants to raise the rates on nonresidents to 0.75 percent, from 0.45, for wage earners, and to 0.95 percent, from 0.65, for the self-employed.
Among other things, the Menendez bill would require nonresident commuters to calculate their tax as if they were paying it in their home jurisdiction, and pay that amount to New Jersey. That would eliminate any differential between New Jersey and New York rates for those people and hurt New York's revenues because New York is now accustomed to pocketing the difference.
While the politicians fight over the pie, Joseph Frank generally credits government officials with having good motives for the constant rule changes and manipulations of deductions, rates and credits.
"They're trying to make the thing more equitable and more palatable," he said, adding, however, that tax forms and instructions are too complex.
For tax-planning purposes, the Franks intend to stick with the approach that has served them well in the past. They give "a lot" to charity, Joseph Frank said, and keep most of their investments in a triple-tax-free bond fund. They are salting away money in tax-deferred savings accounts for their retirement. The one thing they are not doing is spending a lot of time worrying about taxes.
"For those fortunate enough to have a job, income taxes are a pretty fair way" to pay for services, Joseph Frank said, adding, "Sometimes, I think we could do even more."
 
CONNECTICUT
A Windfall for Commuters
 Dr. Cathleen Raggio, a pediatric orthopedic surgeon who lives in Westport, Conn., but works in Queens, says her state's new income tax package makes her "a winner" because she commutes, and commuters are getting the tax law's sugar coating without having to take its medicine.
As Connecticut struggles to implement its income tax -- a system already marked by flawed forms and tax tables in which a dollar more in income can greatly change a person's tax obligations -- Dr. Raggio, as a net gainer in the changes, says she feels a bit cut off from her fellow citizens. "The income tax creates a more divisive society," she said.
But while Dr. Raggio decries what she sees as the law's inequities, she also follows her accountant's advice and will trim her taxes this year because of it.
Because she earns all of her salary out of state -- and transferred savings into short-term certificates of deposit that allowed her to defer earnings until 1992 -- she expects a smaller state tax burden than ever.
When Connecticut residents file their first state income tax returns on April 15, those whose earnings are from other jurisdictions, like New York City, will be credited, dollar-for-dollar, for the nonresident income taxes paid to the jurisdictions where they work, up to the amount they owe Connecticut. As a result, most of the state's commuters will owe the same kind of taxes they have always paid, and no tax on income to Connecticut, whose top rate is lower than that in New York and New Jersey.
But the commuters will reap significant benefits from some of the other tax law changes -- like lower sales taxes and reduced taxes on investment gains -- that were included to make the income tax more palatable. In the short run, anyway, for the commuters it's a case of all gain, no pain.
"I end up giving the same amount of money to another state, and giving less to Connecticut," Dr. Raggio said.
Connecticut had long been taxing capital gains at rates of up to 7 percent, and interest and dividends at rates of up to 14 percent, depending on income level. With the new tax law, however, those rates were reduced in 1991 and then dropped again to a flat 4.5 percent this year.
Last fall, Dr. Raggio's accountants at the Coopers & Lybrand office in Stamford advised her to shift regular passbook savings and money market funds into C.D.'s maturing in 1992 to avoid receiving interest payments in 1991.
The drop in the 1992 tax on interest and dividends from 14 percent to 4.5 percent is "a real big savings for me," Dr. Raggio said. "It was an attempt by the state to say, 'We're not going to tax what you save, we'll tax what you earn.' But a good number of Fairfield County people are like me, they commute. And a lot of commuters make big bucks. What the state did was give us commuters a tax break.
"People who live in, and work in, the state, the state gave them a whammy," Dr. Raggio said. "They also don't even get deductions for charity donations and mortgage interest," as they would on Federal returns.
Commuter or not, Dr. Raggio will soon get to share in the pain. The state's new budget features deep cuts in aid to cities and towns, despite the new income tax. That could well lead to higher real estate taxes, she said. What's more, she says an increase in the amount of vacant commercial space in her area is signaling a contraction in the tax base, as workers relocate. She says she fears the trend will continue, and that the state's commercial vitality is slipping away.
State officials contend, however, that the tax package as a whole is fair, notwithstanding the breaks received by Dr. Raggio and other commuters. They say it will give Connecticut a firm basis for growth.
The lower tax on capital gains, interest and dividends will remove the incentive for wealthy people to leave Connecticut, said Bill Cibes, head of the state's Office of Policy and Management. Overall, the tax package gives state revenues stability and predictability, he said. "The implementation has gone comparatively smoothly," Mr. Cibes added.
But accountants say the period of adjustment will continue for some time. For the state's wage earners, it has not been an easy process so far. "Phasing-in" began last fall with the imposition of a 6 percent withholding rate on paychecks for the last three months of the year. That hit wallets hard. And the pain was compounded by the structure of the first withholding tables, which did not allow for credits designed to ease the tax burden of those with lower incomes. After an uproar, the tables were revised.
The intent of the three-month withholding at 6 percent was to collect what would be the equivalent of a 1.5 percent income tax for all of 1991. That figure will be reflected on the state tax forms filed April 15. Accountants point out, however, that the overall rate from here on out is 4.5 percent, meaning that the total tax bill this April will be only one third of what taxpayers can expect to pay in April 1993.
Meanwhile, errors continue to be found. For instance, a Stamford accountant, Michael Kanter, says parts of the tax form instructions are so badly written they can be easily misunderstood. And he warns of several "tax cliffs" -- sudden, sharp increases in liability.
For example, after calculating their tax, taxpayers discount the final figure by a "personal tax credit." For those married filing jointly, with an adjusted gross income of $30,000, the credit is 75 percent of the tax bill. However, by earning just $1 more, the credit drops to 35 percent. (The next increment drops to 15 percent if adjusted income is increased by another $10,000.)
But as fraught with problems as it has been, the phasing-in period has offered opportunities that Dr. Raggio said have been simple to take advantage of. "They were just practical and easy things to do, just being aware of dates," she said. "Instead of selling stock in November, we just held off until after December."
She said she and her husband even delayed buying a new sink and other "big ticket items" for a home renovation project until after last October's drop of the sales tax rate to 6 percent, from 8 percent.
Her tax plan for 1992 is to continue to let Connecticut's tax laws work to her advantage and to invest conservatively. "I don't want to wind up like Connecticut," she said, "old and broke with nothing to do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jim Hannan, of Haddonfield, N.J., does his taxes on a computer as children James, 8, and Erin, 12, look on (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times) (pg. 17); Blanche and Joseph Frank contemplate tax forms at their home in Brooklyn. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); Dr. Cathleen L. Raggio (left), a Connecticut resident, at work in a New York hospital. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times) (pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (50%); NEW YORK (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (94%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX LAW (89%); CITIES (75%); SALES TAX (73%); DISMISSALS (67%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (50%); 

PERSON: SAWYER, TOM JIM HANNAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



16 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
Making a Grimy Business Shine

BYLINE: By Diana B. Henriques

 BODY:
For companies whose fortunes are hitched to the manufacturing engines of the world, most of the surprises on the bottom line in the last few quarters have been nasty ones, as this oft-predicted, still-awaited recovery has left inventories high, future sales uncertain and corporate executives grim.
Samuel W. Bodman 3d, the chairman and chief executive of the Cabot Corporation in Boston, is no more sanguine than anyone. He sees only the slightest glimmer of improvement in his company's worldwide business, chiefly of making and selling grimy but essential industrial chemicals called "carbon blacks." And he is solemn about how much remains to be done before this venerable company is as strong as he wants it to be. 
 Thus, no one would be astonished to learn that Cabot's most recent quarterly earnings did not match Wall Street's estimates. But one might be surprised to learn that the earnings were higher than expected, not lower. Indeed, a few savvy folks think that, after a long season of discontent, this surprise is the first sign of spring at Cabot.
It's been a long process -- one that began in 1986, when Mr. Bodman was recruited by the board of directors to become Cabot's president, and intensified in 1988, when Cabot briefly was threatened by the GAF Corporation, which had already taken a raiderly run at Borg Warner and at Union Carbide. (It was the latter sortie, of course, that led to GAF's being accused in 1988 of conspiring to manipulate Carbide's stock. A 1990 conviction on those criminal charges was overturned last March.)
In Cabot's case, GAF had more than 5 percent of the company's stock and was complaining to security analysts that Cabot was worth more dead than alive and should be broken up and sold for the benefit of shareholders. A chunk of those shareholders, however, were Cabot family heirs who apparently weren't eager to dismember their birthright, so GAF was stymied.
But even before GAF showed up, the non-management Cabot board members had sought out fresh leadership. The man they chose was Sam Bodman, 52 years old, who at the time was the president and second-ranking executive at the FMR Corporation, the mutual-fund holding company.
It seemed an odd choice, but Mr. Bodman's pre-FMR resume solves the puzzle. He holds a doctorate in chemical engineering, was on the Massachusetts Institute of Technology faculty and is a friend of Paul E. Gray, the M.I.T. president who served at that time on Cabot's board. He is at ease explaining the mysteries of fumed silica or tantalum -- two of Cabot's esoteric raw materials.
Mr. Bodman is equally at home with the mysteries of financial engineering, as Cabot illustrated last spring when it spun off its energy exploration business, the Cabot Oil and Gas Corporation, in an unusual tax-free exchange offer that left the parent with 25 percent fewer shares outstanding. Mr. Bodman said the spinoff has helped distinguish the two companies. "Instead of falling between the cracks, half oil and half chemicals, we now have two distinctive assets," he said. "We wanted our shareholders to look at us and decide which part they wanted."
In addition, Cabot has pulled the plug on unprofitable sidelines. It is facing up to its various environmental liabilities, taking writeoffs and pushing to settle outstanding disputes with regulators. And it has invested fresh capital -- borrowed, unfortunately, to the detriment of its balance sheet -- in modernizing its production facilities.
The result of all this remodeling is a once-diverse company that is now focused on a handful of basic products and services, in most of which it has a dominant market share. The heart of the lineup is carbon black, a microscopic form of carbon used, in its less sophisticated forms, as a key ingredient in the rubber-based recipe for tires. A more profitable line of designer carbons, known as special blacks, are used in plastics and inks -- most notably, the less-smudgy publishing inks that make newspaper reading a less-grimy experience. In addition, Cabot sells tantalum, a rare element used in electronics, and fumed silica, a versatile snow-like powder that thickens liquids and helps other powders flow more smoothly.
The company also has two distinctive non-chemical operations: Cabot Safety, which virtually owns the market for disposable protective earplugs used in high-noise environments, and Cabot LNG, which operates a liquefied natural gas terminal in Massachusetts. Meshing with these is a growing European plastics recycling operation, a coal fuel services business and a 51-percent stake in American Oil and Gas, a publicly traded gas pipeline company.
The new focus has attracted some notice among savvy professionals. Lehman Ark Management Company, a money management firm in New York, has a big Cabot stake, as does the State of Wisconsin pension fund. And William D. Hyler, a well-regarded oil analyst at Oppenheimer & Company, has recently restored Cabot to his firm's recommended list, citing its "dominant market share in key chemical lines" and a set of undervalued energy assets. In a recent report, Mr. Hyler noted that, while these energy assets are not on the block, they are "readily saleable" and offer "an important degree of comfort for those investors concerned about current debt levels."
One financial quarter -- with fully diluted earnings of 81 cents a share, when the Street was expecting only about 68 cents -- does not constitute a turnaround, of course. And Cabot's board clearly does not steer by three-month signposts. But even Mr. Bodman allows that progress has been made, despite the economy's failure to cooperate. "I've likened our situation now to Winston Churchill's comments after the battle of El Alamein," he said in a recent interview in his modest Boston office. "We're not at 'the end,' or even at 'the beginning of the end,' but we are at 'the end of the beginning.' "

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Different Mix," shows Cabot's income from its non-energy operations, which include rubber blacks, special blacks for inks and plastics, and other divisions, 1988-1991 (Source: Oppenheimer & Co.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBT (NYSE) (72%); BWA (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (83%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (83%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (81%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (81%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2895 CARBON BLACK (72%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CABOT CORP G-I HOLDINGS INC (83%); FMR CORP (81%); CABOT CORP (72%); BORGWARNER INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CABOT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; COMPANY REPORTS EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); CHEMICALS MFG (78%); CARBON BLACK MFG (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ENGINEERING (71%); CONSPIRACY (70%); CARBON BLACK (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; BODMAN, SAMUEL W 3D SAMUEL W BODMAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



17 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2817 words

HEADLINE: The New Marching Orders at Aetna

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: HARTFORD

 BODY:
Ronald E. Compton, sailing his boat north from Maryland to begin a new assignment at the Aetna Life and Casualty Company headquarters here, was caught off guard near Montauk Point, L.I., by a storm that was not in the forecasts. "It got to be really heavy going," he recalled. "The wind was coming exactly from where we wanted to go."
After three hours of battling the worsening winds and growing darkness, Mr. Compton made what associates and competitors say was a characteristic decision: he cut his losses. Turning about, he ran before the winds straight into the safety of New York harbor. Five years later, he remembers the experience fondly, as though turning back and taking the safer course up the East River into the quiet of Long Island Sound had been planned from the outset. 
 To many who know Aetna well, the story is telling. Captain Compton is again at the helm, taking over today as chairman of the insurance giant, and preaching the virtues of a dramatic course correction. Whether the nation's largest publicly held financial services company can come about fast enough, but not so fast as to destroy the employee loyalty that has marked its culture, is not yet clear.
Like the other huge multi-line insurers, notably the Travelers Corporation and Cigna, Aetna is pressed by tightening government regulations, consumer revolts over prices and battered real estate holdings. All have launched plans to cut middle management and reduce unprofitable lines of business.
But the "re-engineering" of Aetna, as Mr. Compton has dubbed it, stands out. Because Aetna is so much bigger than its rivals and so much more a symbol of the paternalistic, old-line insurance industry that once held itself out as the bastion of American economic stability, the changes under the old gold Aetna dome here amount almost to a re-invention.
Over the last year, a company that once made a point of pride of offering almost any insurance for any market has begun to rethink what it sells, where it sells, how it sells, and to ruthlessly cut adrift anything that even smells of a loss.
 
Breaking a Little China
 Under Mr. Compton's direction as president, the post he assumed in 1988, the company pulled out of automobile insurance in 28 states, sometimes at significant short-term cost. It paid $87.5 million to the State of Massachusetts in January to sever its ties there. Last year, it sold its money-losing individual health insurance unit to Mutual of Omaha.
More than 2,600 jobs have been eliminated in the last nine months, mostly through layoffs. That's about one in 20 jobs in the Aetna work force in general and a far higher proportion in some departments and across the ranks of middle management here in Hartford.
But some of the most far-reaching changes have come in how the company deals with its customers. State Farm, for example, the nation's largest automobile insurer, has employees to sell its products. Aetna, since the Civil War, has relied exclusively on independent agents who work on commission and act as intermediaries between the company and the consumer. No longer.
Agents still sell insurance, though often at reduced commissions, but their role as intermediaries is being diminished. In January, Aetna launched in Indianapolis its first full-scale re-engineered claims department. The idea is to encourage customers to bypass the neighborhood agent when they have a claim and instead call the company directly. Such streamlining, the theory goes, will cut costs.
In Florida last year, the company, in partnership with a Citicorp subsidiary, began to hawk homeowners' insurance to people whose mortgages have just been approved.
Mr. Compton, a 59-year-old with 34 years at Aetna, conceded that his changes "break a little china in and out of the company." Employees and former employees say that morale has slipped badly, that burn-out is a threat to those left in Aetna's thinning ranks. Agents, smarting from the pinch on commissions, are moving to sometimes-open antagonism.
Company officials and outside analysts alike say that in the long view, such hostility is good. "We historically have tended to make slight adjustments around the same theme," said Hank Hubbard, Aetna's vice president who oversees relations with agents. "Now we're talking about breaking it all apart, to take a look at the entire delivery process. If we're not making people somewhat uncomfortable, then we probably aren't talking about the right things."
Making people uncomfortable or angry has not yet translated into profits. Over the first two months in the Citicorp plan, for example, only 15 policies were sold. Then came worse news: A January letter from the Florida Department of Insurance said that based on a preliminary investigation -- sparked by agents' protests -- it appeared that out-of-state banks were prohibited from selling insurance in Florida. The letter asked Aetna to halt sales until the questions could be resolved.
 
Lost Traditions
 Often-repeated tales inside Aetna concern the employee cafeteria, once absorbing a $1 loss on every meal sold, and a subsidized store for employees that stocked everything from running shoes to ashtrays. One employee likened the old Aetna to a vast "mom and pop" business. If a particular line had trouble, other "family members" stepped in to pick up the slack. A manager could count on the security of years of service and company commitment.
Those days are gone. Last year, Aetna's three main divisions -- commercial insurance, personal insurance and business services -- were torn apart and reconstituted as 15 stand-alone units that cannot run for cover if performance falters. They will profit, Mr. Compton has declared, or they will perish.
Along with that structural change, employees and analysts say, has come a sea change in the Aetna family feeling. Lauded for years by groups like the Families and Work Institute in New York, which rates companies on how they handle employees, Aetna has swept through many departments like a tornado.
In the claims division alone, 700 jobs, one in ten, have been eliminated. More will probably go as re-engineering spreads this year to New Orleans and Dallas, then farther afield, said George M. Reider, a vice president of field claim operations.
In fact, the new spirit sometimes smacks of sheer fear. Mr. Compton, known as a restless and imperious executive, has gained a reputation for stalking the halls, eyes peeled for inefficiencies. Employees say even the appearance of idleness has caught his attention.
The new chairman, who sprinkles tough-talk speeches with anecdotes from his childhood in Chicago's less-than-genteel South Side, conceded that some people don't like the new order, the less-defined jobs in the strategic business units.
"People who don't feel right unless they're boxed in and snug don't feel right about it," he said. On the other hand, "People who love ill-defined jobs because they see real opportunity to get out there -- they love it."
"As far as being a paternalistic company," he continued, "a company that is cradle to grave -- we never were that. We never told people we were that. Nobody owns a job, nobody owns a market, nobody owns a product. Somebody out there can always take it away from you."
 
Needed: Reassurance>
 The telephone on Christopher E. Heller's desk rings four or five times a week with a call from a policyholder that only a few short years ago would have seemed like a crank call or a joke. How secure is the company? What do the rating agencies say?
Part of Mr. Heller's job, as an assistant vice president of financial communications, is to reassure such people and he does so with an aplomb that says much about the new Aetna. In addition to supplying such soothing voices, the company began last year sending quarterly audio tapes to pension funds to help convince them and their members that the money invested by Aetna is safe.
Company officials had been reassuring industry analysts in similar fashion until last October, when a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission disclosed that $1.2 billion of Aetna's real estate portfolio was likely to become troubled within a year. That on top of $3.5 billion in properties already non-performing, repossessed or refinanced.
In all, 20 percent of Aetna's $23.5 billion real estate properties are "troubled." Furthermore, Aetna has a far greater proportion of assets devoted to real estate than most insurers, twice the industry norm in some cases. At Aetna Life Insurance, for instance, 54 percent of the $38.5 billion portfolio is tied to mortgages or real estate.
After the October disclosure, those rating agencies that had not already done so downgraded the once-gilt-edged company, albeit stressing that there was no danger of failure. Analysts, stung by the sudden announcement, began questioning the adequacy of reserves.
With the failure of several major life insurers -- notably Executive Life and Mutual Benefit Life of New Jersey -- still ringing in the news, shoring up confidence became critical. Not an easy task.
"It's almost like letting toothpaste out of the tube -- once the public loses confidence in a financial institution of that type, how do you get it back?" said Joseph Belth, a professor of insurance at Indiana University.
Analysts generally agree that Aetna did not dive wildly into the real estate speculation of the 1980's. The company's conservative standards -- no more than 75 percent loaned on any one property -- were adhered to.
What changed, essentially, was everything else. Competitors, especially banks and savings and loans, overbuilt the real estate market. Saving and investment patterns changed. People turned away from whole-life insurance for better returns elsewhere, but as companies were taken over or split apart in the 80's, their pension funds began looking for higher yields and turned to Aetna. Aetna's total assets soared to $92 billion last year.
That meant Aetna had both vastly larger sums to invest and a need to satisfy the hunger of policyholders and investors for high returns.
Meanwhile, the manner in which the company had to invest the funds also changed. Horizons shortened. Before the 80's, life insurance companies held mostly long-view investments, meant to be held for decades until the whole-life policies matured. That allowed 25- to 30-year mortgages on real estate. In the 80's, however, the driving force of Aetna's portfolio became the so-called guaranteed investment contract, or GIC, which many insurance companies began to offer in response to investor demands for higher returns.
The GIC's typically ran five to seven years. That mandated the rise of five- to seven-year balloon mortgages, which require that the whole loan be paid at the end of the mortgage, or rolled into some new mortgage. It is those properties, disproportionately, that have stumbled as owners found refinancing scarce.
The irony is that within the company, the health and life sections tied to the real estate assets are the most profitable, in part because of a booming business in managing other company's health plans. On the automobile and homeowners' insurance side, by contrast, where most of the dramatic reorganization plans are taking place, profits have been battered by competition and rate regulation, but the assets are secure, backed mainly by government bonds.
 
The Continuing Squeeze
 The crucial point is the one where those two forces merge, analysts say: the return on equity. The pressure for safe investments is forcing Aetna toward stable, secure investments -- lower-return vehicles that put pressure on the profitability of the life and health insurance units. On the property-casualty side meanwhile, it has been blocked from raising rates much because of competition or regulation, and forced instead into drastic cost-cutting measures.
"They're realizing that they are going to have to do something to improve profitability," said Alice L. Cornish, a managing director at Northington Partners, a Hartford research firm. "The multi-line companies, at this stage, can't look hard enough at what they need to do."
Although Aetna has remained profitable, those profits have been sliding steadily since 1986. Savings from the reorganization plans, still mostly to come, ultimately could be substantial -- $100 million a year in the claims department alone, company officials say. But every gain will have to be etched out against the backdrop of continuing large real estate losses, and the buildup in reserves -- $154 million in the latest quarter alone -- to cover those losses.
Mr. Compton still sees it in nautical terms. The future, he said, is coming in a series of ever-bigger, ever-faster waves. "A lot of us have believed that we could just sort of ride over the tops of those waves," he said. "But that won't work anymore."
 
 
TROUBLE WITH THE AGENTS
 Like other insurance companies, Aetna has changed its ways of selling insurance through independent agents, but it's traveling a rough road. If the company moves too fast, it risks the enmity of one of the most powerful lobbying groups in Washington, the 220,000-member Independent Insurance Agents of America. If it moves too slowly, it risks convincing Wall Street that cutting costs is not a priority.
One sure-fire approach is to cut commissions, which many insurers have done. But Aetna has gone further still. Most agents now get paid not just by the volume of Aetna insurance they sell, but also by whether the insurance is from a profitable line or a money loser. Company officials concede that it's not a popular change.
But the greatest concern at the agents' group is Aetna's partnership with Citicorp to sell insurance in Florida. The arrangement, made possible under a Delaware law that allows bank subsidiaries in that state to market insurance in other states, has been vehemently attacked by the group, which went all the way to the Supreme Court with a failed challenge last year. In January. Florida asked Aetna to halt the practice, pending resolution of questions about its legality.
"We think Citicorp is just the tip of the iceberg," said Robert Rusbuldt, a vice president at the agents' group, expressing concern that other insurers and banks will try similar tactics.
In the face of such hostility, Aetna has appeared to waver. Initial news reports said, for example, that the Citicorp plan would be expanded to California, and eventually 17 states. Aetna spokesmen later hastened to clarify: just Florida, and maybe California.
James T. Lynn, who retires as Aetna's chairman today, three days after his 65th birthday, said that the question of how agents will ultimately fit into the new Aetna is not yet clear: "How many there'll be, and what that proportion is to the total distribution system out there -- what's that old expression they say on radio? 'Stay tuned.' "

 
 
THE REGULATORS STEP UP THE PRESSURE
 In Washington, and in state capitols across the nation, laws and regulations are in flux as politicians react to concerns about the costs of insurance and the solvency of the providers. And many of the clouds on the horizon are dark indeed from the perspective of Hartford.
Rollbacks on automobile insurance rates in California and New Jersey have made those states loss-leaders for insurers. Other states, stung by the failure of regulators to detect or disclose problems with possible insolvency, have zeroed in as well, asking more and harder questions.
Fifteen months ago, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners created new accreditation guidelines that required tighter solvency tests for insurers and beefed up staffs to make sure the tests were administered. Last year, 40 states enacted legislation to try to reach the guidelines, according the group's president, William H. McCartney.
But the most fundamental questions are coming out of Washington. Bills have been proposed that would create an entirely new Federal system of insurance industry regulation; other proposals would only tinker with the state-based system that now exists. Battle lines are also expected to be drawn over whether an insurance bill would address the question of allowing banks into the industry.
In his State of the Union address, President Bush also issued a list of proposed tax changes that made insurance executives blanch. He specifically proposed curtailing tax benefits on new annuity plans sold to individuals, a major revenue source for many insurers, including Aetna.
Annuity plans, like Individual Retirement Accounts, were created to allow people to build up retirement assets, tax-free. The President's proposal would make income from the plans taxable unless the investor chose a steady payout -- instead of the lump-sum payout most annuity holders now take.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald E. Compton, chairman of Aetna: "Nobody owns a job, nobody owns a market, nobody owns a product." (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "AETNA," graphs track revenues, net earnings and assets of Aetna, 1981-1991 (Source: Company reports); "Lines of Business," shows breakdown of premiums for Aetna's different business lines in 1991 (Source: Company reports) (pg. 6)
 
Table: "How the U.S. Insurance Industry Stacks Up," lists the top five life insurers and top five property and casualty insurers and their 1990 assets (Source: A. M. Best Company) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (96%); CI (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (83%); C (BMV) (83%); 8710 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (96%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AETNA LIFE AND CASUALTY CO AETNA INC (96%); CIGNA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (83%); TRAVELERS CORP (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: AETNA LIFE AND CASUALTY CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FINANCES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INSURANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); 

PERSON: COMPTON, RONALD E; JOHNSON, KIRK MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



18 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 26; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
In a Bind

 BODY:
The current tax picture is framed by paradox. Income tax rates have been slashed in the past decade, yet the tax burden remains heavy because deductions and other breaks were curtailed.
 Now, given the added pressure of a recession in a presidential election year, both the Democrats and the Republicans in Washington have responded with a plethora of proposals to provide relief, particularly to the middle class.
 
 Yet the tax bite in the United States is small in comparison with that in Japan, Germany and several other leading industrialized countries. And Americans are not clamoring to put the brakes on Federal spending.
 There is nothing paradoxical about the result of all this: as the Federal budget continues to grow, so does the deficit.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Cost to Individual Taxpayers Has Soared ...", tracks indirect taxes, social security taxes and income tax for family of four with two wage earners at median family income of $53,265 in 1991, for 1981-1991 (1991, estimate) (Source: Tax Foundation)
 
"... Flattening Out Real Family Income," tracks two-earner median family income before and after taxes and inflation, in 1991 dollars, 1981-1991 (1991, estimate) (Source: Tax Foundation)
 
"Congress Cut Marginal Income Tax Rates . . ." tracks effective and marginal federal tax rates, 1981-1991 (Source: Tax Foundation; Commerce Clearing House; Treasury Dept)
 
Chart: ". . . But It Also Squeezed Deductions"
 
 Eliminated in Tax Reform Act of 1986:
* Consumer interest, like car, credit card, student or personal loans.
* State and local sales tax.
 
 Curtailed in Tax Reform Act of 1986:
* Miscellaneous itemized deductions may be taken only to the extent they exceed 2 percent of adjusted gross income.
* Medical expenses are deductible only in excess of 7.5 percent of A.G.I.
* Deductions for unrecovered casualty losses like theft or hurricane damage may be taken only to the extent they exceed 10 percent of A.G.I. plus $100 for each occurrence.
* Deductions for home mortgage interest are limited to first and second homes with debt not to exceed $1 million.
 
Benefits Curbed:
* Tax shelters were knocked out by decreeing that passive losses may be deducted only against passive income, not against ordinary income or investment income.
* Real estate investments were declared passive; many upper-income taxpayers are unable to deduct losses from depreciation.
 
 This Year's Haircuts:
* Itemized deductions will be reduced by 3 percent of the amount that A.G.I. exceeds $100,000.
* Personal exemptions will be phased out, starting with A.G.I. of $150,000.
 
Chart: "Taxes Cut Your Dollar to 60 Cents," shows breakdown of expenses for each family dollar in 1992 (Source: Tax Foundation)
 
Table: "The Top 10% Bear Half the Burden," lists share of Federal Income Taxes paid by taxpayers broken into six wage groups, for 1981 and 1991 (Source: Tax Foundation)
 
Table: "It's Worse Abroad," lists total tax returns as percentage of gross domestic product of seven industrialized countries including the U.S., France, Japan, Germany, Britain, Italy, and Canada (Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Debelopment)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (85%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (85%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (75%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); ELECTIONS (85%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (85%); RECESSION (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (84%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (84%); PUBLIC FINANCE (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



19 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/February 23-28

BYLINE: By Joel Kurtzman

 BODY:

ECONOMY
 
Playing Veto Games With the Tax Bill 

Considering the hype, you would have expected the Democrats' tax bill to pass by more than 221 to 209. After all, it was supposed to return America "to the time-honored tradition of taxing people according to their ability to pay," said Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, a principal author. It was also supposed to stimulate growth. The bill cuts taxes on the middle class by $45.9 billion, raises them on the wealthy by $64.1 billion, and uses the difference to pay for things like indexing capital gains and increasing deductions for business. But the total bite is about the same. That may be the problem. "It's very hard to understand how a revenue neutral bill will stimulate the economy," said Norman Ornstein, a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. So why pass it? Politics, he said. "They wanted to send something to Bush he would have to veto. They had to hold their noses on this one."
 
G.D.P. Up, Forecasts Flat
 
The Commerce Department said the nation's gross domestic product grew by 0.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 1991, not by 0.3 percent as it had originally reported. But that change is not that meaningful. "Expected," said Samuel D. Kahan, chief economist at Fuji Securities. "It came from changes in inventories." According to the department, consumers spent $7.3 billion more than it had originally thought. But even with the uptick, economists are not rushing to alter their forecasts. "My estimate is still for 1 percent growth in the first quarter," Mr. Kahan said.
 
The Gloom-and-Doom Consumer
 
It's been 17 years since consumers felt this gloomy about the economy, the Conference Board said last week. Its index of consumer confidence fell to 46.3 in February from 50.3 the month before. The index was a robust 100 in 1985. Back in 1974, when consumers last felt this bad, they had good reason. The economy was mired in recession, the Vietnam War was raging and President Richard M. Nixon was forced to resign. But now? The index shows consumers are worried most about layoffs. Since worried consumers don't spend, a robust recovery may still be some time away.
 
Brady's Furry-Feathery Guys
 
Consumers are mopey, but someone is buying durable goods. According to the Commerce Department, sales of long-lasting, big-ticket items like dishwashers, trucks and airplanes rose by 1.5 percent in January. That upturn was enough to make Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady sound a little, well, giddy. "I see robins on the lawn in the economy now," Mr. Brady told the National Association of Business Economists last week. And then he added: "I went out last weekend and bought two new tires." Tires are not in the durable category.
 
Can't Brady's Bunch Count?
 
When Secretary Brady went to Congress last week, it was to ask for money. He wants $55 billion to bail out the nation's savings and loan institutions. But hold on, where did the first $105 billion go? According to the General Accounting Office, Congress's investigative arm, no one knows for sure. It reports that the Resolution Trust Corporation, which oversees the bailout, has not only lost track of billions of dollars in loans, real estate and other assets seized from failed institutions, but also has lost track of the cash it got when those assets were sold. Those are powerful accusations. In one instance, the G.A.O. said, $7 billion appears to have vanished from the Government's books, but it does not know whether that is due to fraud, incompetence or simply poor record-keeping. The R.T.C. acknowledges it has problems.
 
Over the Slump's Hump?
 
Little by little, Detroit is moving the metal. Sales of domestically built cars and light trucks rose by 4 percent in mid-February. Though it was too early to declare the slump over, analysts were optimistic since most of the sales were to customers entering the showrooms, not to rental fleets. "We're seeing a semblance of recovery," said Jack V. Kirnan, an analyst at Kidder Peabody.
 
For Greenspan, Four More Years
 
Even though Alan Greenspan was a shoo-in for the job, President Bush did not nominate him to a second four-year term as chairman of the Federal Reserve until the eleventh hour. It took last summer's jittery bond markets to nudge Mr. Bush along. Since then, Mr. Greenspan, a hard-money man, has been whacking away at interest rates and pumping up the money supply. That policy won the Senate over. Last week he was confirmed.
 
 
 
COMPANIES

 
In the Image of Toyota?
 
 Last week, the the General Motors Corporation announced losses of $4.45 billion for 1991 and detailed the first stage in its plan to shrink the company by eliminating 71,000 jobs and closing 21 plants. But cost-cutting alone may not be enough. "Almost all of its costs are fixed. The U.S. market is the world's most cyclical. That kills them," said James Womack, co-author of "The Machine That Changed the World." "Toyota is different. It manufactures only 50 percent of its vehicles -- the rest are contracted out -- and makes only 25 percent of its parts. The rest come from suppliers. It employs only a fraction of the people G.M. does, yet it maintains its quality." For G.M. to compete, it must remake itself, Mr. Womack said. "We're a long way from the end of this tale," he added.
 
A Chip That Can Grow Old
 
Behind every successful computer, there is a chip. Trouble is, over time, even the best ones become outmoded. So last week, the Digital Equipment Corporation, the nation's No. 2 computer maker, said it was introducing a 64-bit microprocessor called Alpha. Alpha chips, which are far faster than most other microprocessors in use, will be at the heart of Digital's next-generation machines. Digital, which spent $1 billion to develop the Alpha in a bet-the-company strategy, plans to license the technology to other manufacturers. "People are going to have to get a good running start to leap over Digital with this one," said Terry Shannon, a consultant in Ashland, Mass., who follows Digital.
 
Park American
 
Japan bashing has taken an interesting turn. Workers at the Ford Motor Company's Escort plant in Wayne, Mich., have decided that foreign cars can no longer be parked in the lot nearest the plant. Those spaces are now reserved for drivers of domestic cars. But that presents a problem for those who drive the Escorts made at that plant. The car was designed by Mazda Motors and has a Japanese engine, transmission and running gear.
 
Mob Ruling
 
Putting the mob out of business is not easy. Last week, the Government settled charges against Thomas and Joseph Gambino, sons of the late Carlo Gambino, the crime boss, for $12 million and a pledge to stay out of the trucking business in New York's garment district. The Gambino brothers, co-defendants in a monthlong trial in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, were accused of controlling trucking in the garment district. That added to the price of finished goods and kept others from competing. The settlement gives the Gambino brothers until March 1993 to sell their companies. They have until 1995 to pay their fines, which, presumably, can come from the proceeds of the sales. With $70 million to $100 million in the bank and their other trucking businesses in New York left intact, no wonder the brothers left the courthouse smiling.
 
Sit Down and Shop
 
Most couch potatoes get their exercise walking through the junk-food aisle at the supermarket. But soon they may not even do that. The Hewlett-Packard Company and TV Answer Inc. last week announced plans to join forces to create interactive televisions. Hewlett will manufacture a $700 computer that will enable a TV set to be connected to TV Answer's information service. The service will allow viewers to buy groceries, order pizza and pay their bills -- for a fee. It will also provide TV listings. TV Answer, in Reston, Va., will transmit its service on a portion of the radio spectrum allocated for that use last month by the Federal Communications Commission. The F.C.C. is expected to start licensing the service by the end of the year.
 
Last week William Aramony, president of the United Way of America, was forced to retire. Disclosures of high-expense-account living and questionable management practices created dissension among the agency's network of local affiliates.
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
China, a Favored Nation
 
China has been a darling of the Administration. Even though it has a poor of record on human rights and a large trade surplus with the United States, the Administration has supported renewing its most-favored-nation trade status when it expires in June. That allows China to sell goods in the United States with the lowest possible duties. But China is no darling to the Senate. Last week it voted 55 to 44 for severe conditions on renewal. It is asking Beijing to account for and release from prison all citizens who have been accused of expressing their political beliefs nonviolently. The bill requires President Bush to certify that China has changed its ways on human rights to keep its trade status in effect. The Administration must also certify that China has made progress in opening its markets to American goods and has stopped shipping arms to countries hostile to the United States. China opposes those conditions. The White House has threatened to veto the bill.
 
Buying the Source
 
Two of Europe's best-known business names, Nestle S.A. of Switzerland and the Agnelli family of Italy (it owns most of Fiat) are fighting for control of Source Perrier S.A. That's the company that bottles France's best-known fizzy water; it is also one of France's largest cheese producers. The bidding has reached a stalemate. The Agnellis, who control 49.3 percent of Perrier's parent company, made a bid for the remaining shares for $1.21 billion -- about $265.28 a share. Nestle, which bid $2.4 billion for all of Perrier, is also offering $265.28 a share. Both groups have resisted increasing their bids but also refuse to give up. At the rate it is going, Perrier could remain French for quite some time.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dan Rostenkowski (Associated Press); Thomas Gambino (Associated Press)
 
Graphs: Track monthly index of consumer confidence, Feb. 1991-Feb. 1992 (Source: The Conference Board); monthly percent change in durable goods orders, Jan. 1991-Jan. 1992 (Source: Commerce Dept.); General Motors' net profits and losses, 1987-1991 (Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TAX LAW (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); VETO (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); RECESSION (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); TIRES (63%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (60%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



20 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1854 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
Once Again, Repair Crews Rush In

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
Swiss folklore holds that people are driven mad each spring by the Fohn, the hot wind that blows in from the south, melting the Alpine snows. If the Fohn has a counterpart in America, it is undoubtedly the hot air emanating from Capitol Hill, where legislation to change the nation's tax laws is, once again, being debated.
"Americans are fed up with constant changes, which affect any long-range planning," said Joel S. Isaacson, who is in charge of personal financial planning at Clarfeld & Company, a New York certified public accounting firm. That is particularly true, Mr. Isaacson added, when the changes are "politically driven and ill-conceived." 
 David A. Berenson, national director of tax policy for Ernst & Young in Washington, said: "It's easier to live with bad tax law than uncertain tax law." Nevertheless, change is in the air again, and at a time when taxpayers are already being driven a bit mad by the demands of preparing their 1991 returns, under the rule changes passed in 1990.
Last Thursday, the House passed a broad tax package backed by the Democratic leadership. This week, the Senate Finance Committee is expected to unveil its plan. President Bush, arguing for his own ambitious package, has threatened to veto any final legislation that resembles the House bill.
The President is demanding sharp cuts in long-term capital gains rates with several breaks for the middle class, while the Democrats, in proposing their own set of benefits for the middle class, argue that the rich should pay higher taxes to underwrite the changes.
The debate in Washington is being fueled by election-year concerns over the recession. But critics contend that once the election is over, less palatable tax changes will be voted because of the burgeoning deficit.
"There's a feeding frenzy before an election," Mr. Berenson said. "Who can give more to the middle class? It's a repeat of 1981. The very next year we had the biggest tax increase ever, the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982." He foresees a similar pattern in 1992 and 1993. "Give money before an election and take it away after," he said. "We're still going to pay the piper. We're staring down the barrel of a $400 billion deficit."
Many of the proposals now being put forth are intended to put more money in taxpayers' pockets. Yet without knowing which changes will be adopted -- or even whether any will -- taxpayers who want to adjust their own financial plans for 1992 must make judgment calls.
Discussing last week's House vote, Pamela J. Pecarich, national director of tax policy for Coopers & Lybrand in Washington, said: "Much of this is political posturing. We have to look past it and say what might be in the final package."
Her assessment is that the big Democratic majority in the House forged a highly partisan bill, but that the Senate will produce a more bipartisan package. The important question, she said, is what will emerge from the conference committee. "Will they send the President something that he can sign or something that he will veto?" she asked.
Of course, President Bush, as well as Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat who heads the Senate Finance Committee, and Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and principal architect of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, have considerable political capital at stake. They would rather forge an agreement they can present as a victory than end up stalemated.
The 1986 act is behind all the talk of change. When it was passed with bipartisan support, its framers stressed three goals: fairness, simplicity and economic growth. The act, the most massive overhaul of the nation's tax laws since World War II, was intended to meet these goals by eliminating a host of deductions and provisions used by the rich -- it shot down shelters, for example -- and, in turn, slashing their rates to 28 percent from a 50 percent maximum. As a result, economic incentives were supposed to outweigh tax incentives in business decisions.
Most tax professionals dissented at the time. For example, they argued -- rightly as it turned out -- that the act would devastate the real estate industry, which had boomed since the Economic Recovery and Tax Act of 1981 brought it more favorable treatment than even industry leaders had sought.
Now, if President Bush and Congress have not come around to their way of thinking -- tax professionals, after all, tend to speak more for upper-income clients than for the mass of voters -- they have, nevertheless, decided that with the economy lagging as November approaches, change is in order. Is the 1986 law about to be undone?
"It's a slow unravelling," Mr. Berenson said. "It's not completely gone, but we're more than halfway there." He cited the new 31 percent top rate and the erosion of itemized deductions and personal exemptions that upper-income taxpayers are already facing on their 1991 returns. And more such change, clearly, is on the way, he added.
Ms. Pecarich predicted, "In the end, to get capital gains relief, we're going to see a 35 percent top rate and a millionaires' surtax." She added, "That's a commonly believed trade-off."
And there are reasons for that trade-off. The 1986 law made life simpler for many middle-class Americans; 65 percent earn $35,000 a year or less, and many of them came out ahead filing a short tax form, 1040A or 1040EZ, instead of the longer Form 1040, once the standard deduction and personal exemptions were raised.
"But millionaires were the clear winners," Jack Porter, national director of tax policy for BDO Seidman in Washington, said. "No one could shelter that much money," and with the rate cut, they paid less. On the other hand, an analysis by his firm showed, people making $60,000 to $100,000 a year, as a group, about broke even with the changes.
Now, if rates are to rise, one obvious strategy is to accelerate income, if possible, into 1992 so that it will be taxed at 31 percent, instead of at a future higher rate.
"We have been urging folks to consider that for some time," Ms. Pecarich said. "Now, by historical standards, rates are low, and individual analyses should be done to determine whether it makes sense to accelerate income."
Another obvious strategy is to delay taking capital gains, in the hope President Bush's proposals for a 15.4 percent top rate on assets held three years or longer will be enacted. Obvious, but not necessarily right.
"I'd execute gains first on economics," said George E. L. Barbee, executive director of client services for Price Waterhouse. "Think first of the market. Tax considerations are second."
Ms. Pecarich agreed that "market economics should dominate most transactions." In some cases, like selling a family business, either family circumstances or a business opportunity may dictate when the sale is to be made, she added. There are techniques, like installment sales, she continued, that would give sellers some protection in the event of a change in the law.
Herbert Paul, who heads his own law and accounting firm in New York, as well as teaching tax law at New York University, said that for stock market investors "postponing capital gains is a clear winner." They can using hedging strategies to lock in gains now, he noted, and take them later.
Mr. Barbee, discussing opportunities that President Bush's proposals might present to middle-class taxpayers, said, "The flexible I.R.A. could be nice," since it would enable people to save for children's education or home-building without incurring the penalties for taking money from a regular Individual Retirement Account before age 59 1/2. Contributions to flexible I.R.A.'s would not be tax-deductible, but earnings could be withdrawn tax-free after seven years.
Another proposal from the President, a $5,000 credit for first-time home buyers, could also be helpful, Mr. Barbee said. "For someone who is leaning toward buying, that could be a consideration."
On the other hand, the President's unilateral decision to lower withholding for all but upper-income workers could create problems for many in April 1993, Mr. Barbee warned, when they find refunds are smaller, or worse, that they owe money. The change, announced by Mr. Bush in his State of the Union address, has already been taken by many employers ahead of today's deadline.
"A lot of people may want to file a new Form W-4 with their employers to counter it," Mr. Barbee said.
Mr. Berenson, calling the move "a step backward in simplification," said that 15 percent of the taxpayers who now get refunds would owe taxes unless they filed new W-4's. "It used to be that only upper-income people and business had to project income and do tax planning," he said. "Now middle-income people need to do that as well."
One reason that many upper-income taxpayers, and some middle-income taxpayers as well, need to do careful projections of their income and the tax consequences, he continued, is the alternative minimum tax. The A.M.T. is intended to make sure that no one of means escapes with little or no tax, and it does so by imposing a different set of rules, taking away some tax benefits entirely and postponing others until a future year when the taxpayer is liable for the regular tax, instead of the A.M.T.
The gap between the A.M.T. and the top regular rate is only seven percentage points, 24 percent on a larger base once the tax breaks are added back into income versus a regular top rate of 31 percent and 28 percent on capital gains, Mr. Berenson noted, so more people are being snared than when there was a greater rate difference. Deductions for high state and local taxes and preferential treatment of incentive stock options are two common reasons the trap is sprung.
Before 1986, he added, preferential treatment of capital gains often subjected investors to the A.M.T., and if a new preferential treatment is voted, the same thing could happen next year. "The left hand gives, and the right hand takes away," he said.
Retirement savings could be similarly buffetted, he continued. Such savings would be encouraged through the new flexible I.R.A. but discouraged if a proposal is enacted that would effectively take away the tax deferral on most annuities sold as supplemental retirement plans.
Over the longer term, Mr. Berenson said, "I consider itemized deductions an endangered species. One could say that the '86 act groomed the way for future tax increases by wiping out deductions."
What should taxpayers do now? "Stay flexible," Mr. Isaacson said. "Don't go into too many illiquid situations like annuities, insurance or real estate."
Within a few weeks, things may look less uncertain, and taxpayers who have prepared a set of alternative strategies will have a clearer idea which way to go.
Sidney Kess, a New York certified public accountant and lawyer, said, "Stay abreast of the changes." Change is generally effective as of the date of enactment, not retroactively. "Many times when there are changes in the law, people have saved fortunes by coming in before the bell tolls," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Individual Taxpayer Carries the Load," shows breakdown of receipts and outlays of estimated Federal budgest for fiscal 1992 (Sosurce: Office of Management and Budget)
 
Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (93%); LEGISLATION (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); VETO (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); ACCOUNTING (55%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



21 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
Proposed Changes in the Tax Code: The Administration vs. the House

 BODY:
Since President Bush proposed a number of tax breaks in his State of the Union address in January, the House has passed a Democratic alternative. The Senate Finance Committee plans to work on its version this week, using the House bill as the starting point for many of of its provisions. Under consideration are tax relief for the middle class and favorable treatment of capital gains, with a top tax bracket of 35 percent and a millionaires' surtax to pay for the new benefits. The accounting and consulting firm Coopers & Lybrand cites these as the key provisions that would affect individual taxpayers.
 
 
I.R.A.'s
BOTH
* Permit penalty-free withdrawals from an existing I.R.A. for first-time home purchases, medical expenses and educational expenses. The Administration wants priority for home buyers.
PRESIDENT BUSH
* Allow contributions to a flexible I.R.A. to accumulate tax-free earnings if held at least seven years. Contributions, to be capped at $2,500 annually per person, would not be tax deductible. For 1992 only, permit rollover of current I.R.A. balances into a F.I.R.A. Withdrawals made between three and seven years would be subject to income tax. Withdrawals before three years would be subject to a 10 percent penalty and income tax. F.I.R.A.'s would be available to single persons with adjusted gross income under $60,000 and to married couples filing jointly with A.G.I. under $120,000.

 
 
Tax Credits
PRESIDENT BUSH
* Provide first-time home buyers with a tax credit equal to 10 percent of the purchase price, to be capped at $5,000 and spread evenly over two tax years. To qualify, purchasers must not have owned a home in the three-year period prior to purchase. The Administration gave priority to this proposal.
HOUSE
* Provide a refundable credit for 20 percent of Social Security and Medicare payroll taxes. Credit is capped at $200 for individuals and $400 for couples.
* Provide a tax credit equal to 15 percent of total annual student loan interest, capped at $300. The credit, to be phased out for upper-income taxpayers, would be raised to $500 if the total interest exceeds 10 percent of A.G.I.

 
 
Capital Gains
PRESIDENT BUSH
* Exclude 45 percent of gains on assets held three years or more, 30 percent on assets held two to three years, and 15 percent on assets held one to two years. The full 45 percent exclusion would apply to gains on assets sold in 1992. Alternative minimum tax preferences would apply. In its priority package, the Administration extended the capital gains exclusion to the A.M.T. for gains on sales of closely held businesses and real estate.
HOUSE
* Index to inflation the basis of certain assets acquired after Feb. 1, 1992.
* Exclude 50 percent of the gain realized on dispositions of certain small business stock held for more than five years.

 
 
Other Provisions
PRESIDENT BUSH
* Increase the personal exemption by $500 per child.
* Repeal the luxury tax on airplanes and boats.
* Allow a deduction when a personal residence is sold at a loss.
* Permit the deduction of up to $3,000 of costs associated with the adoption of children with special needs.
* Permit deductions for certain student loan interest.
HOUSE
* Beginning in 1993, add a 35 percent income tax rate for joint filers with income over $145,000 and single filers over $85,000.
* Impose a 10 percent surtax for incomes over $1 million.
* Increase the A.M.T. rate to 25 percent from 24 percent with a 2.5 percent millionaires' surtax.
* Increase the number of miles moved to claim a moving expense deduction.
* Repeal the luxury tax on boats, airplanes, jewelry and furs, and index the threshold for cars.
* Delay the expiration date of rules requiring higher-income taxpayers to reduce itemized deductions by 3 percent and phase out personal exemptions.
* Modify individual estimated tax rules to require taxpayers relying on amounts paid in the prior year to pay 115 percent of last year's liability.
* Index $125,000 exclusion for capital gains upon the sale of a principal residence to inflation, and extend the exclusion to permanently and totally disabled persons.
BOTH
* Impose diesel tax on pleasure boats.
* Extend the exclusion for transit passes to $60 a month.
* Extend the health insurance deduction for the self-employed.
* Repeal A.M.T. preference treatment for charitable contributions of appreciated property.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541219 OTHER ACCOUNTING SERVICES (71%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (71%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (71%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COOPERS & LYBRAND (71%); COOPERS & LYBRAND (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (93%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); STUDENT EXPENSES (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (70%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); MARRIAGE (64%); MEDICARE (62%); CORPORATE TAX (62%); STUDENT LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



22 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
The Year That Was: Refinancing, Recession and War

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
With interest rates in last year's recession-battered economy at their lowest point since the seventies, many homeowners refinanced their mortgages. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of lives were disrupted as the recession led to layoffs and a search for new jobs, and the Gulf War brought many into military service.
Following is a discussion of the tax consequences of these events, as well as of new concerns this year about the "kiddie tax," in light of changes on parents' returns.
 
Refinancing a Home
 Tax professionals report a widespread misconception among homeowners: mortgage interest is deductible; therefore, any refinancing costs will be deductible, they believe. 
 Tax law is complex, and individual refinancings must be examined carefully for possible exceptions. But in general, the belief about refinancing overlooks two common problems. First, points paid on a refinancing must be amortized over the life of the loan, rather than be deducted upfront. Second, deductions for mortgage interest are limited to acquisition costs and to home-equity loans of up to $100,000.
Acquisition costs apply to buying, building or substantially improving a principal or second residence, and interest on acquisition debt of up to $1 million is deductible. A refinancing is considered acquisition debt only to the extent of the unpaid balance of the acquisition debt prior to the refinancing.
Sidney Kess, a New York certified public accountant and lawyer, gave this example. "Suppose a taxpayer who still owed $200,000 on a high-interest mortgage refinanced that amount. The interest would still be deductible. But suppose another taxpayer who had bought a house back in the seventies for $50,000 and had paid off the mortgage took advantage of the appreciation since then to refinance for $200,000."
The second taxpayer can deduct only one half the interest (because $100,000 qualifies as home equity). If a portion of the loan is used for home improvements, the interest on that portion could be deducted, too.
Mr. Kess noted that the Internal Revenue Service had liberalized its treatment of points for home buyers. Now, points are generally deductible up front, even if a separate check is not written for them, but that liberalization does not apply to home-improvement loans.
Each point is equal to 1 percent of the mortgage. A taxpayer who paid three points in a $150,000 refinancing would have incurred a $4,500 charge that would have to be amortized over the life of the loan, he said.
Avery E. Neumark, a partner in Weber, Lipshie & Company, a New York-based accounting firm, said that if people claimed upfront deductions for points paid on a refinancing, "This is clearly something that will be scrutinized by the service -- this is not a gray area." Points now have to be reported by the lender to the I.R.S.
Despite the complexities involved in mortgage interest, many tax professionals continue to recommend home-equity loans to their clients because personal interest is no longer deductible. Therefore, people who have car loans or high-interest credit card debt may save tax dollars by taking out a home-equity loan and paying off those debts. The interest rate could be substantially lower as well.
 
Job Searches
 Expenses in searching for a new job in the same field are deductible even if the search is not successful, Mr. Neumark noted, although expenses incurred while looking for a job in a different field are not, even if one is found.
He cited these examples of deductible expenses: transportation to and from interviews, employment-agency fees, job-counseling costs, charges for typing, printing and mailing resumes and letters of application; telephone charges, and 80 percent of the costs of meals and entertainment incurred in connection with a job search.
George E. L. Barbee, executive director of client services for Price Waterhouse, noted that these deductions are part of the miscellaneous itemized deductions that can be taken only to the extent they exceed 2 percent of adjusted gross income.
However, he said, in many cases in the past year a job search led to consulting work, rather than to employment. These taxpayers must file a Schedule C for self-employment income, and may therefore have expenses that are deductible on the Schedule C without the 2 percent limit, he said.
"People are often distraught and panicked when they lose their jobs," he said. "When you are looking for a job, you should hold onto every receipt, but many do not realize that." However, they may be able to reconstruct their 1991 records right now, he said.
Mr. Barbee, who has offices in both New York and Boston, advised anyone affected to go through his or her pocket diary or desk calendar for records of interviews or "networking, like meetings of business or professional associations." The I.R.S. will accept a taxpayer's diary as reasonable evidence, and from it the taxpayer should be able to reconstruct out-of-pocket expenses and establish which charges to credit cards were related to the job search or consulting contract.
 
Operation Desert Storm
 Chuck DeLanoy, a senior tax fellow in the national office of BDO Seidman in Washington, noted that people who served in Operation Desert Storm may be entitled to tax breaks for 1991, as well as for 1990.
Enlisted personnel can exclude from taxable income any pay they received while serving in the combat area or were in a hospital, and officers can exclude up to $500 a month.
An important consideration for families of those who died overseas in military service is that all tax liability for the year is wiped out, he said, so the executor of the estate will need to file a return to recover any tax that was withheld.
In addition, the due date of the return is extended for those who were in the combat zone. This covers not only military personnel but also some civilians like employees of the Government or relief agencies or accredited news correspondents. The date of the extension depends on when a person left the combat zone.
Those who may be affected should refer to I.R.S. publication 945 for details. In addition, Mr. DeLanoy noted, the call-up meant many in the services incurred other expenses, including child-care, moving and even home sales that may qualify for preferential tax treatment.
 
Kiddie Tax
 The "kiddie tax" imposed by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 makes 1991 income above $1,100 from investments held in the name of children under age 14 taxable at their parents' rate. Subsequently, for ease in filing, parents were allowed to include such income up to $5,000 on their own returns, instead of having to file separate children's returns. But with 1991's shaving of deductions and exemptions for upper-income taxpayers, there is a new wrinkle.
Including the children's income will increase the parents' adjusted gross income, and for upper-income taxpayers, that would mean an additional erosion in the value of their itemized deductions and personal exemptions. Many states follow the Federal model, so state taxes could rise as well.
Hal M. Cohen, director of executive financial consulting for Deloitte & Touche, in Parsippany, N.J., said that parents needed to weigh the time and expense of preparing separate returns against the convenience of including the income on their own. If a child has earned income, a separate return must be filed, he noted.
If a child under 14 has only unearned income like interest and dividends, the first $550 is tax-free on a separate return, Mr. Cohen noted, the next $550 is taxed at 15 percent, and anything above that amount at the parents' rate. If the child earns income from baby-sitting or a paper route, for example, the standard deduction is the greater of $550 or the earned income up to the normal single filer's standard deduction of $3,400. (Parents who provide more than half their children's support may still claim them as dependents.)
If, for example, a child earned $1,000 and had interest and dividends of $2,000, the $1,000 would be tax-free, $1,100 of the interest and dividends would be taxable at 15 percent and $900 at the parents' rate.
Mr. Cohen noted that one way to shelter the children's earned income from taxes would be to establish an Individual Retirement Account in the child's name, and contribute an amount equaling the child's earned income or $2,000, whichever is less.
Using this to teach the child how the money will compound and how the tax laws work is a good way to give children a sound financial education, he said.

GRAPHIC: Heading home from Desert Storm last March. (Associated Press)
 
Graph: "Loan Rates Compared," compares typical loan rates for credit cards (19%), unsecured equity personal loan (14%), home equity (before tax) (10%) and home equity (after tax) (6.9%) (Source: Deloitte and Touche)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; MORTGAGES; CREDIT; HOUSING; PERSIAN GULF WAR; LABOR; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (91%); DESERT STORM (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (76%); LAYOFFS (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); INCOME TAX (69%); ACCOUNTING (65%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M AVERY E NEUMARK (56%); SIDNEY KESS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



23 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 26; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
Taxes, Deficits and the American Way

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
Familiarity breeds contempt: Ten years after economists began warning that mega-deficits meant mega-trouble, Congress is flirting with another budget-busting tax cut. The deficit, it seems, has been demoted from impending crisis to nagging worry, one ranking somewhere between the population explosion and failure to floss.
Were the economists, in fact, just a bunch of Chicken Littles? Can Washington indefinitely spend $5 for every $4 it collects? 
 Most analysts now agree that the much-feared "hard landing" -- in which the dollar collapsed and Washington was forced to auction off Yellowstone Park -- was never a remotely probable consequence of big deficits. Most would agree, moreover, that one dollar of deficit is not equal to every other.
The composition of spending matters -- borrowing a dollar to build a new road is far less problematic than borrowing a dollar to finance a pension. So does the timing: deficit finance exacts little or no cost when the economy is in recession and there is plenty of unused productive capacity.
But mainstream economists would still argue that chronic deficit financing has enormous impact: the failure to tax more or spend less in this decade, they say, virtually guarantees lower living standards in the next. And while some would concede that Americans are not morally obliged to sacrifice the good life in order to guarantee a better one for the next generation, there is little reason to believe this momentous choice is being made by an electorate with its eyes open. Chronic deficits, concludes Richard Cooper of Harvard, are just "the accidental result of political impasse."
Hardly anybody in the Reagan Administration expected the big deficits, a product of the humongous tax cuts of 1982, to endure. Conventionally minded analysts, notably Budget Director David Stockman, assumed that Washington would be forced to slash spending to bring the budget into balance. And unconventional supply-siders thought the economy would grow the budget into the black, as lower tax rates unleashed a surge of savings, investment and tax revenue.
But rising Federal spending was not checked, and visions of supply side nirvana went unfulfilled. More surprising, perhaps, Uncle Sam's borrowing never drove up interest rates in the 1980's, and thus never forced business to cut back on investment. Asians, Europeans and Latin Americans proved willing and able to fill the savings plate that would otherwise have been picked clean by the U.S. Treasury.
This unexpected turn of events stimulated an orgy of revisionism. Supply siders made much of the fact that Japan, too, ran chronic deficits, and still managed to double output every decade or so. Some liberal economists, notably Robert Eisner of Northwestern University, argued that the deficit was a statistical mirage -- that the U.S. Government should be no more obliged to balance its cash budget than a corporation that finances its growth through borrowing.
But the revisionists have not made much intellectual headway among the mainstreamers. The heart of the matter, they say, is still the adequacy of national savings and investment.
The Japanese Government can afford to spend more than it takes in, they point out, because corporations and individuals save more than enough to finance ambitious levels of private investment. America did get away with big deficits in the 1980's without a credit crunch. And as long as the economy is chugging along at half speed, an extra dollar of Government consumption need not crowd out a dollar of private investment.
But eventually, the mainstreamers argue, the economy will recover, and eventually foreign savers will want their money back. Then, the chickens must come home to roost in the form of slow or no growth in American living standards.
By the same token, Mr. Eisner may be correct that a proper accounting would show Uncle Sam invests as much as he borrows. But Robert Solow of M.I.T. contends that the revision is not relevant to the question at hand: What matters, he says, is that Uncle is consuming far more than he did before the tax cuts, and has thus contributed to the overall decline in national savings.
Perhaps the choice is conscious; perhaps Americans are prepared to accept the trade of more consumption today for less in the long term. Mr. Solow scoffs at the suggestion. There is not a shred of evidence, he argues, to show that the Americans raised in the rapid growth era of the 1950's and 60's would willingly settle for anything less for their children.
Robert Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget Office, goes further. America, he argues, is a heterogeneous nation united by a common dream of economic mobility. But if the pie stops expanding, the success of some will only come at the expense of others -- a sure recipe for bitter conflict. "We require rapid growth," he concludes, "to maintain social stability."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Uncle Sam's $4 Trillion Headache," tracks Federal Government outlays, deficit, receipts, and cumulative debt, 1981-1992 (1992, estimate) (Source: Office of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (55%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (55%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LIFE STYLES; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); LIBERALISM (65%); INTEREST RATES (61%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ROBERT MERTON SOLOW (56%); ROBERT EISNER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



24 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Trade Is More Critical Than Productivity

 BODY:
To the Editor:
American industry is, indeed, in serious trouble ("Attention, America! Snap Out of It!", Feb. 9). But lack of productivity growth is not the key problem. More important is the trade imbalance and its effect on employment. Since manufacturing is the most productive economic activity, when we import a large proportion of manufactured goods, we lose the best-paying jobs and their contribution to the Federal budget. The deficit is caused by the trade imbalance -- not the other way around. 
 It is also time to lay to rest the myth that Americans save too little and spend too much. In 1991, we saved, through Social Security, 12.4 percent of wages up to $53,400, in addition to the 4.7 percent cited in the article. Since Social Security payments are for pensions, they constitute the same kind of savings that the Japanese accumulate in banks. That they are not available as capital for industrial investment is not the fault of American workers but of the accounting system that uses these funds to paper over deficits.
The most important problem is the failure of government to recognize that a problem exists, together with the Administration's mystical (and totally unfounded) belief that nothing need be done.
 
WILLIAM F. SCHREIBER
Cambridge, Mass., Feb. 15
 
The author is professor of electrical engineering, emeritus, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (67%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); WRITERS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); ENGINEERING (64%); 

PERSON: SCHREIBER, WILLIAM F (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



25 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Why Marginal Changes Don't Rescue the Welfare System

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

 BODY:
From the White House down, public officials are talking tough about welfare and pledging to put the system right. But less is likely to come of it than meets the ear. In the states, much of the activity is prompted by budget crises. Some officials are proposing plain old cutbacks dressed up in talk about prompting self-reliance. Others add a carrot to the stick, offering to pay the poor to stay in school, seek health care or marry.
Some of the proposals seem cynically calculated to appeal to conservative middle-class voters; others spring from genuine concern, and may even bring small accomplishments. But none are remotely likely to fix what is really broken. 
 Last week George Bush became the latest leader to talk tough, airing campaign commercials in Georgia that promise to "change welfare and make the able-bodied work." Vice President Dan Quayle made a trip to New York on Thursday and denounced the failure of the "liberal vision of a happy, productive and content welfare state."
The White House seems to have arrived at the issue after discovering that the President's remarks on welfare in the State of the Union address drew a warm response from a focus group watching the speech. But his plan comes after three years of virtual silence about welfare, and thus far consists of "waiving certain Federal regulations" so states can conduct more experiments.
At once, he managed to combine bold talk with tepid action and the implicit argument that the problem is someone else's to fix.
It is easy to see why no one likes welfare. Its cost has never been as large as its controversy -- the average state spends 3.4 percent of its budget on welfare. But the society that sends the check resents its support of people who might be supporting themselves. And the families that receive it resent its meager sum, its stigma, its prying social workers.
In truth, welfare serves two sets of people, neither particularly well. More than half the women who enter the system stay for less than four years, never to return. But a quarter will stay for more than 10 years, and such long-term recipients make up about 56 percent of the rolls at any given time.
Both groups get by on cash payments that inflation has eroded by 41 percent over the last two decades, down to a monthly average of $402 for a family of three. Adding in food stamps, the monthly average is $623. That combined total buys 27 percent less than the typical grant did in 1972.
Faced with welfare rolls that now reach new records every month, the country seems stuck. It cannot increase payments without making welfare more attractive. It cannot cut them more without risking further harm to the 13 million people on welfare, nine million of whom are children. Either direction promises more misery.
And neither takes account of outside forces beyond the control of the welfare system: the erosion of wages for low-skilled employees, which makes work look unattractive, and the rise in female-headed households in all income classes.
 
$100 Incentives
 The problem with many of the current reform proposals is that they assume that small incentives -- cuts or bonuses of $50 or $100 a month -- will cause big changes in behavior. But three decades of experimentation show the opposite to be true: that benefit levels have little impact on decisions to work, marry or bear children.
"There's absolutely no evidence that small changes have more than a tiny, tiny impact," said David T. Ellwood, a professor of public policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, who has studied past welfare experiments.
Professor Ellwood notes that there is already a natural experiment in progress: the combined levels of welfare and food stamps vary widely by state -- from $401 a month for a mother with two children in Alabama to $826 for the same family in California. Yet no one has suggested that Alabama has half of California's problems with dependency.
Ohio is now offering a bonus of $62 a month for teenage welfare parents who stay in school, and subtracting $62 a month from the grants of those who don't.
Maryland Governor William Donald Schaefer has proposed cutting benefits by 30 percent if welfare parents don't pay their rent, seek preventive health care, or make sure their children stay in school.
New Jersey just passed a measure that will deny extra benefits for women who have more children while on welfare. This may or may not have an effect, but it's hard to argue that it addresses a fundamental problem with the welfare system. The number of children in the average welfare family has already shrunk substantially, dropping in the last 20 years from three to two. Only 10 percent of all welfare families have more than three.
When California's Governor Pete Wilson recently proposed to cut grants as much as 25 percent, aides went so far as to present this as a measure to help welfare recipients become self-sufficient. Kassy Perry, a spokeswoman for the state Health and Welfare Agency, said the proposed cuts were part of a package of "new tools to break out of the cycle of dependency."
"By providing the impetus to get out of the house and work a few hours, they're going to be honing job skills," she said in a telephone interview.
Is there, she was asked, any evidence to suggest that such incentives work?
"I don't know," she said.
The casual observer may have gotten the impression that the country just went through a round of fundamental reform with the passage of the 1988 Family Support Act. One of its chief architects, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat, has alternated between characterizing it as a policy revolution and a modest first step. Most observers accept the latter judgment.
 
Work or Be Trained
 When it is fully in place, the law will require 20 percent of those eligible to join a work or training program. But about half the women on welfare are exempt, either because their children are too young or they lack transporation and day care. So even at full speed, only about one welfare recipient in 10 will be included.
While welfare experts often say these programs succeed, their idea of success rarely matches the public's idea of fundamental change. A study in Arkansas, for example, showed that during three years in a welfare-to-work program, participants spent 15 months on welfare -- just 10 weeks less than a control group of similar women.
Mr. Moynihan was among those angered by the Bush commercials in Georgia. In response, he announced plans to introduce a bill that would increase spending on the training programs from $1 billion to $5 billion, and seek to enroll all of the eligible participants.
"If we're going to play the race card and make that talk -- here it is: $5 billion," Mr. Moynihan said, daring the President to back his words with taxpayers' dollars. He called on the White House to "put up or please to shut up."
There are bolder plans, but they come with higher price tags. Professor Ellwood of Harvard, for instance, has been pushing a plan that is both "tougher" than anything conservatives are calling for, and yet far more generous than the current system.
On the tough side, Professor Ellwood would place a time limit on welfare of one to three years -- enough to give a divorced mother, for example, time to get back on her feet. On the generous side, he calls for stepped-up enforcement of child support payments, with the Government making the payment itself if it fails to collect from absent fathers.
He would also provide health care, day care and enough tax credits to lift low-paid workers out of poverty.
Then, for those who do not find jobs within the time limit, there would be a last resort: a government job at the minimum wage.
This plan, of course, has potential weaknesses. Guaranteed child support has been called welfare in disguise. A guaranteed jobs program could turn into a boondoggle. Professor Ellwood has said his plan's full cost could be as high as $30 billion a year, though he argues that pieces of it, like child support insurance, could be done for much less.
The point is not that Professor Ellwood has the solution, but rather that he has a vision as large as the politicians' rhetoric.
"I'm just waiting for the candidates to get beyond the cut-welfare/don't-cut-welfare debate," he said. "They've got to get beyond tinkering with welfare and replace it with something that works."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many welfare recipients are required to attend work or education programs. Women in such a program study for their high school equivalency degree in Tulsa, Okla. (Steve Jennings for The New York Times)
 
Table: "The Welfare Pinch" lists state changes in Aid to Families with Dependent Children. Figures are in 1991 dollars. (Source: House Ways and Means Committee)
 
Graph: "Fewer Poor Children Get Welfare," tracks percent of children living in poverty who are on welfare and percent of the population on welfare, 1970-1991 (Source: House Ways and Means Committee); "Number of Children in Welfare Families," show breakdown of children in welfare families for 1991 (Source: Dept. of Health and Human Resources)
 
Map: "Recent Changes in Welfare," shows states that are cutting welfare benefits, those raising benefits, those remaining the same and those tightening eligibility (Source: Center on Social Welfare and the Law)
 
Chart: "Some Experimental Reforms"
 
NEW JERSEY
Denies additional benefits if a woman on welfare has more children. Allows women to keep some benefits after marrying.
 
MARYLAND
Governor's plan would cut beneftis 30 percent if a parent failed to pay rent, get health care for children or keep them in school.
 
CONNECTICUT
Welfare Department suggests dropping drug abusers who refuse treatment from rolls.
 
CALIFORNIA
Governor's plan would cut benefits 25 percent for those who stay on welfare for more than six months. It would also deny benefits for new children, require teen-agers to live with their parents, pay teen-age parents $50 extra a month to stay in school. New state residents would get no more money than they did in the states they came from.
 
WISCONSIN
Benefits cut by up to $200 per month per child if children are not in school. Governor's plan would give extra cash to parents who marry and deny benefits for new children. It would require teen-age mother to live with parents or guardians.
 
OHIO
Offers a $62-a-month bonus to teen-age parents who stay in school.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION BUDGETS (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); FOCUS GROUPS (66%); POVERTY RATES (63%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



26 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Tax Bills and a Capital Gains Cut Turn Into Capitol Games

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The Congressional debate over growth and taxes suggests that there may be a way to balance the Federal budget after all. It cannot be found in the hundreds of pages of the bill the Democrats pushed through the House, nor in the Bush Administration program the House rejected. But actions by Congress and the White House in recent weeks suggest that a lot of money could be raised by just one more violation of the "no new taxes" rule, a tax on political gamesmanship. Consider just a few examples:
The ploys began with Mr. Bush proposing that Congress put aside partisanship and pass a cut in capital gains taxes, which has been one of the most partisan issues in Washington for years. 
 The House Democrats quickly followed his lead, by having Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the majority leader, introduce all the tax measures in Mr. Bush's budget as a bill in the House. Saying they were only trying to help Mr. Bush out, they put "by request" next to Mr. Gephardt's name on the bill, to imply that the President had asked for the favor. Democrats quickly attacked the bill as sure to raise the deficit -- even though they left out the spending cuts Mr. Bush had also proposed to pay for the tax cuts.
Then the House Republicans almost wept as they begged the Democrats to take their middle-class tax cut back and "work in a bipartisan way," as their leader, Representative Robert H. Michel of Illinois, urged after saying that Democratic economic policy had gone from "malaise in 1980 to malarkey in 1992."
Last Thursday's 221 to 209 vote to pass the Democratic bill sent the issue to the Senate. The partisanship there may be a little less intense, if only because neither party is as united there as it is in the House, and because Senate leaders, at least, work with each other some of the time. Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, chairman of the Finance Committee, is intent on getting a bill out of committee this week. Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, predicted Friday that some Democratic bill would get out of the Finance Committee quickly and might even be passed this week.
But that may prove to be no more than a fresh stage for making political arguments. The Democrats believe, and see political gain in proclaiming, that some tax break should go to the middle class, and it should be paid for out of higher taxes on people with high incomes.
The Republicans believe, and see political advantage in arguing, that economic growth can be spurred by cutting taxes on capital gains, but that it would defeat that purpose to raise taxes at the same time. There doesn't have to be anything silly or petty about making those arguments and trying to win votes with them, although in the current irritable mood of the House it may be too much to hope for a thoughtful approach.
And perhaps those principles really matter to each side. So far the Democrats insist they will not abandon the higher taxes on the upper brackets. And Mr. Bush insists he will not sign a bill that raises taxes.
 
Talking It Over
 Sometimes those postures preclude negotiation and compromise. And sometimes they are just a part of negotiation. Last year, for example, the civil rights bill and the extension of unemployment benefits both faced apparently firm Presidential opposition at first, and became law after both sides gave some ground.
But there are several reasons why there seems to be less yielding this time. One is a lack of public outcry for action. While Mr. Bush claims that the American people want his program enacted, lawmakers of both parties say they have generally heard no clamor for his bill, or any other. As Mr. Dole said Friday: "The Kansas people I've heard from don't expect much from the Congress. There's not much we can do."
In the absence of real public pressure, the years-long stalemate over capital gains seems unlikely to be broken. Democrats regularly offer to lower those taxes in exchange for some sort of increase in income taxes. Republicans regularly reject those offers. There is just such a plan in the House Democrats' bill; Republicans found no virtue in it. Another reason is the budget agreement of 1990. Neither Mr. Bush nor the House Democrats offered a plan that the other side did not condemn for violating that deal's promise that cuts in taxes or spending increases would be offset by measures to bring in revenue.
The biggest obstacle to a tax agreement is probably Patrick J. Buchanan. Mr. Bush, stung by conservatives who found faithless his previous acceptance of higher taxes, might have had no room to compromise this year anyway. Some of his Congressional allies think he might have accepted a new tax on incomes of more than a million dollars, but nothing more. And some doubt that he could have accepted even that modest measure.
But with Mr. Buchanan suddenly a serious political force, Mr. Bush seems left with no maneuvering room. Some politicians might have responded to Mr. Buchanan's success in New Hampshire by pushing for quick action on the middle-class tax cut that Mr. Bush has on the back shelf of his tax closet. But Mr. Bush stuck with his original plan. A middle-class tax cut, after all, almost certainly requires tax increases somewhere else.
Still, the public may come to pressure Washington for action, especially if the latest wave of recovery hopes subsides. Mr. Gephardt has said that even though Congress cannot override a veto on taxes, it might send the President another bill, and even another after that.
Mr. Dole and House Speaker Thomas S. Foley, two of Congress's more skilled conciliators when they want to be, both suggested that a time might come when all parties would sit down and talk.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); TAX LAW (92%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM RICHARD A GEPHARDT (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



27 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: SO NEAR, YET ...;
Democrats See Their Chance, And Worry That They'll Miss It

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
Democrats are almost giddy as they watch the onetime Colossus of the Persian Gulf slog his way across Georgia in an ugly primary battle with Patrick J. Buchanan. They can hardly believe the 45-point slide in President Bush's approval ratings since March 1991. They are stunned at the shakiness of the once-legendary Republican political machine.
"He seems to me to be in even worse trouble than Carter in '80," says Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat. "I can't remember the last time George Bush had a good day politically since the Soviet coup failed." In short, the zeitgeist has changed, and more and more Democrats are convinced that their party has been handed a historic opportunity to oust a President. What is far less certain is whether this party, and these candidates, will be able to seize it. The Democrats' gloating over Mr. Bush's troubles is tempered by their own anxieties. 
 To begin with, some Democrats worry that the political ground shifted too quickly for their party to adjust; their Presidential field would almost certainly have included bigger names and loftier reputations if Mr. Bush had looked less invincible last year. Now many analysts believe it would take a major breakdown in the system -- a deadlock in the race or the collapse of one of the top campaigns -- for another candidate to make a realistic drive for the nomination. This might have happened just after New Hampshire if Governor Bill Clinton, widely considered the frontrunner in the party, had not managed to survive allegations of infidelity and draft evasion and finish a respectable second to former Senator Paul E. Tsongas.
But in recent weeks, the filing deadlines have passed for one state after another; the party's rules and schedule of primaries and caucuses may have frozen-in this field. Kevin Phillips, a conservative analyst, argues that there is still a powerful political rationale for the entry of a stronger candidate. "I have a hard time seeing the Democratic Party looking at a late 20th-century re-enactment of 1912, 1932 or 1976 and giving the nomination to either of the two front-runners," he said, alluding to other watershed elections. There are, in fact, continued fears in the party about the long-term effect of Mr. Clinton's "character issues" and the breadth of Mr. Tsongas's appeal in a general election.
And some leading Democrats privately say that if the race remains a muddle, with two or three candidates accumulating delegates in a state by state war of attrition, but none breaking from the pack, it is conceivable that the party could approach the end of its primary season with the outcome very much in doubt -- another scenario for a late entry.
But many Democrats are now trying to live with the candidates they have, seeking virtue in necessity and touting their youth, their anti-Washington appeals, the ability of Mr. Clinton to bounce back and the decidedly non-slick style of Mr. Tsongas. Mr. Frank noted that the 1976 breakthrough against an incumbent Republican was achieved by another candidate considered an improbable nominee -- Jimmy Carter, who not coincidentally was visited by Mr. Tsongas in Plains last week. Ronald H. Brown, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said: "I'm very pleased with the current field. Some are looking for a knight in shining armor, but I'm not sure there is one in politics."
In interviews last week, several leading Democrats argued that if the times are right and the message is right, these candidates can rise to the moment. Representative Vic Fazio, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said, "These races are ultimately up or down on the incumbent -- the President yes or no." These Democrats believe that the party has already found a powerful message for the times and simply needs to stick with it: Casting Mr. Bush as a failed President who does not understand the suffering of the recession, keeping the focus on bread-and-butter issues like jobs and health care, conveying a sense of urgency about the country's direction, appealing far more directly to the concerns of the middle class. The politics of the 1980's is exhausted, they argue, and the American people are ready for change. "I really believe that the public is looking this time for a campaign on the issues," Mr. Fazio said.
It would also be helpful, many Democrats said, if the candidates restrained their natural tendencies to destroy one another in the battle for the nomination. The contest took a particularly bitter turn last week, with Mr. Clinton assailing Mr. Tsongas for "cold-blooded" economics, Mr. Tsongas accusing Mr. Clinton of distortion, and Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska arguing that Mr. Clinton's draft record made him a ripe target for Mr. Bush in the general election. With candidates who are so little known, this kind of slashing politics can damage both the attacker and the one attacked, many Democrats said.
The public, after all, seems hungry for a serious election, fed up with politics as usual, increasingly dubious of Mr. Bush but not entirely convinced that the Democrats are fielding their top team, judging from much of the recent polling. It would be a tragedy, many Democrats believe, if the failings of individual leaders kept their party from stepping up to the moment. "He keeps trying to give us the ball, and we don't seem to reach for it," said John White, a former chairman of the Democratic National Committee. "I have to presume that we'll get our act together sooner or later."
Many Democratic leaders note, however, that all politics is relative. Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic polltaker, acknowledged that "in terms of developing the personae of the candidates, Democrats are probably a little bit behind the curve right now, and the squabbling isn't helping." Still, he added, "George Bush's problems run so deep that whoever the Democrats nominate in New York this summer will be competitive with him."
The candidates are keenly aware of the mood in the party, the determination not to kick away the White House the way many Democrats felt it was kicked away in 1988; this explains why the candidates spend so much time touting their "electability" against Mr. Bush. As Mr. Clinton heads into the round of primaries and caucuses in the South over the next two weeks, many of his allies are convinced that his candidacy is on the mend. As Mr. Tsongas shoots up in the polls in Colorado and other upcoming primary states, his admirers argue that he is clearly making the transition from regional to national candidate. Mr. Kerrey, for his part, revived his candidacy with a victory in South Dakota last week.
Between now and March 17, when the race for the nomination roars through the South and West and heads back North to Illinois and Michigan, someone could catch fire, could win convincingly in regions around the country and in the hearts of Democratic officeholders and political professionals. In the meantime, the apprehension remains in the Democratic Party. "It's always messy," said Bob Squier, the Democratic media consultant. "Democracy's messy. But I'd rather have our mess than Bush's mess right now."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA (73%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA (73%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAUCUSES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COUPS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARNEY FRANK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



28 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
What Clinton and Tsongas Want to Do With the Economy

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In their economic proposals, both Gov. Bill Clinton and former Senator Paul E. Tsongas share such an eagerness to break with many Democratic traditions that they sometimes sound like classic conservatives.
Mr. Clinton says Democrats must move beyond thinking government can tax and spend its way out of every problem, and he pledges to limit Federal growth. Mr. Tsongas blames the Democrats for taking an us-vs.-them attitude toward business, and he makes a capital gains tax cut, anathema to liberals, a centerpiece of his program. 
 While these two Democrats, whose economic plans have attracted the most attention, agree on the need for a new economic path, they vehemently disagree on one of the hottest economic topics: income tax cuts. Mr. Clinton wants to cut taxes for the middle class by 10 percent, and to pay for this he proposes increasing taxes for families earning $200,000 or more.
Irked that Mr. Tsongas has won wide praise for eschewing politically popular tax cuts, Mr. Clinton said on Thursday, "I am tired of what is cold-blooded being passed off as courageous." Mr. Tsongas responded, "To suggest that saying yes to middle-class tax cuts is an example of profiles in courage is a phenomenally interesting definition of the term."
With his emphasis on helping business and spurring wealth creation, Mr. Tsongas often sounds like a Republican. "Democrats are going to have to go back to the original act -- the creation of national wealth," he said. While embracing Democratic concerns about social justice, he said, "You cannot redistribute wealth that is never created."
Mr. Clinton's economic plan seems a potpourri of populist flourishes and proposals from policy think tanks. He appeals to the left by wanting to bar companies from taking unlimited tax deductions for excessive executive pay. He appeals to the right by pledging to slash government administrative costs by 3 percent a year and to limit increases in government spending to the rate of growth of the economy. He wants to expand the earned income tax credit to give poor Americans greater incentives to work. To help compete with Germany and Japan, he wants to improve the skills of blue-collar workers through continuous training and apprenticeship programs for high-school students.
 
High-Powered Advisers
 Both candidates have high-powered economic advisers. Lester Thurow, dean of the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T., is Mr. Tsongas's economic guru, while Mr. Clinton is advised by Robert Reich, a professor at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, and Robert Shapiro, an economist with the liberal Progressive Policy Institute in Washington.
One thing the two Democrats share is a preoccupation with improving the nation's competitiveness to keep living standards from slipping. The two Democrats would have the Government play a far larger role in boosting competitiveness than has President Bush. Both would set up a new agency to coordinate basic civilian research. Both support a French-style program in which companies either train workers themselves or pay 1 percent of their revenues toward a state-run training program. Both say improving education is crucial to competitiveness, and both support standardized national exams and greater spending for schools.
To increase investment, Mr. Clinton supports a targeted investment tax credit for small and medium-sized businesses and extending loans to low-income entrepreneurs. Mr. Tsongas supports a temporary tax credit and emphasizes increasing the amount of savings available for private investment. He says schools should work with banks to give every child a savings account, and suggests that the children's money be pooled into children's mutual funds.
 
Capital Gains
 As far as increasing competitiveness is concerned, the biggest difference between the two is Mr. Tsongas's emphasis on cutting capital gains taxes. He would lower the tax on stocks, but not on real estate, and he would cut capital gains taxes more the longer investors hold their stocks. Mr. Clinton would cut capital gains taxes only for the original investment in a start-up company.
"Tsongas is like Bush -- he believes that the cost of capital for business is the overwhelming important issue," said Jeff Faux, director of the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal study group. "Clinton places more emphasis on education and training to increase the nation's productivity."
On trade, Mr. Tsongas said protectionism was a "tragic mistake," but added that countries must end their unfair trade practices as a condition to enter the American market. While saying he supports an open trading system, Mr. Clinton uses more muscular language, proposing to strengthen measures allowing retaliation against countries with closed markets.
To end the recession, Mr. Clinton wants to cut middle-class taxes and pressure banks to lend more. Mr. Tsongas supports a temporary investment tax credit and jawboning the Federal Reserve to reduce interest rates. Both want to accelerate highway construction to create more jobs and favor preventing banks from foreclosing on cash-strapped homeowners.
Partly because the two men have shunned many traditional Democratic policies, they have received some praise from conservatives.
"Clinton is absolutely correct that government overhead is higher than it should be," said Edward Hudgins, an economist with the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group. "Tsongas's main strength is that he understands that a healthy business community is important for creating jobs." But there are still differences between 1990's Democrats and conservative Republicans. Mr. Hudgins said Mr. Clinton's proposals to raise taxes for the rich would discourage people from being enterprising. And while praising Mr. Tsongas for being pro-business, Mr. Hudgins said he "tended too much to want the Government to manage the economy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Clinton (Ted Soqui/Impact Visuals); Paul E. Tsongas (Richard Sobol/Sipa)
 
Chart: "Dueling Visions"
 Gov. Bill Clinton and former Senator Paul E. Tsongas agree that the economy is the main campaign issue. But they offer strikingly different prescriptions for turning it around. Here is a summary of what each would do as President.
 
TAXES
 
CLINTON PROGRAM: Cut taxes 10 percent for middle class; increase taxes for household earning more than $200,000 a year; replace current $2,150 dependent exemption with $800 tax credit per child.
 
TSONGAS PROGRAM: No middle-class tax cut; cut capital gains for stocks but not real estate, with cuts deepening the longer one holds stocks; increase taxes on those earning more than $200,000.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
CLINTON PROGRAM: Make R.& D. tax credit permanent; establish agency to coordinate basic civilian research.
 
TSONGAS PROGRAM: Give. R.& D. tax credit and set up Federal office to coordinate technological spending and stragtegy; increase funding for National Science Foundation, National Institutes of Health.
 
TO INCREASE INVESTMENT
 
CLINTON PROGRAM: Give targeted investment tax credit to small and medium businesses; extend loans to low-income entreprenuers.
 
TSONGAS PROGRAM: Give temporary investment tax credit; increase pool of savings available for investment; set up additional I.R.A.'s and programs for schoolchildren to save money.
 
TO REDUCE DEFICIT
 
CLINTON PROGRAM: Limit increase in Government spending to no more than rate of nation's economic growth; limit Government administrative costs by 3 percent a year.
 
TSONGAS PROGRAM: Enact flexible freeze requiring cutting costs of some programs if costs of others are raised; raise gasoline tax by up to 5 cents a year over 10 years.
 
TRADE
 
CLINTON PROGRAM: Expand trad on 'just and fair' terms; strengthen American laws that allow retaliation against countries deemed unfair traders.
 
TSONGAS PROGRAM: Fight protectionism but encourage American consumers to show loyalty to domestic companies.
 
JOB TRAINING
 
CLINTON PROGRAM: Use apprenticeship to train high-school students not bound for college; require employers either to have training program or pay 1 percent of revenues into state fund to finance training.
 
TSONGAS PROGRAM: Require employers either to have training program or pay 1 percent of revenues into state fund to finance training.
 
EDUCATION
 
CLINTON PROGRAM: Administer national exams to elementary and secondary students; issue annual report measuring progress of states, school districts and individual schools toward national goals; give assistance to every student who wants it, to be paid back after graduation in dollars or public service.
 
TSONGAS PROGRAM: Increase financing and structural reforms, including merit pay; establish uniform school days, school-bases management, and standards for teacher competence.
 
OTHER MEASURE
 
CLINTON PROGRAM: Get banks to lower interest rates on credit cards; expand earned-income tax credit; bar companies from taking unlimited tax deducation on excessive executive pay.
 
TSONGAS PROGRAM: Ease anti-trust laws for American companies in areas affecting nation's capabilities in international trade; require directors to include long-term competitiveness as part of their decision-making process.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); TSONGAS, PAUL E BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



29 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION;
A Tax Boon, Or Boondoggle?

BYLINE: By SARAH BARTLETT

 BODY:
Almost weekly there are calls for New York City's government to change the way it operates -- whether it is downsizing, "rightsizing," consolidating umpteen departments or privatizing services, all efforts requiring a broadside on the status quo. Just as frequently, members of the Dinkins administration and the City Council respond that they are indeed engaged in revamping government.
Then along comes an issue like the Industrial and Commercial Incentive Program to remind everyone of just how hard wholesale change is. On Tuesday, with the Dinkins administration's blessing, the City Council voted 44 to 6 to extend the I.C.I.P. program, as it is known, for six months. To those familiar with the controversies surrounding the program, the decision speaks volumes about the current state of local politics. 
 The program was created in 1984 to encourage economic development, especially in marginal areas of the city and by manufacturers, by offering tax exemptions for construction or rehabilitation of commercial and industrial buildings. From 1977 until 1984, the Industrial and Commercial Incentive Board reviewed each applicant's request and granted exemptions based on an applicant's need and the impact a project might have on the economy.
In the early 1980's, critics charged that the board doled out exemptions too freely, that much of the subsidized development would have occurred anyway and that the board's all-powerful position had created the potential for corruption, although no specific allegations were ever made.
Instead of instilling closer oversight, the City Council and State Legislature responded by making the program available to nearly anyone on an as-of-right basis, and I.C.I.B. became I.C.I.P.
The I. C. I. P. has become the city's largest single economic development program. Developers have received hundreds of millions of dollars in exemptions that free them from tax increases normally levied on any improvements to a building or site. Although some of those taxes are deferred, the city only receives the revenues many years hence, in less valuable dollars. This fiscal year alone, the value of the exemptions is estimated by the Department of Finance to total $110 million, with another $47 million from the earlier board.
Depending on location and project, a developer can enjoy anywhere from a three-year full deferral, with the obligation to pay taxes back 11 to 20 years later, to a full exemption for 13 years, phased out over the next nine years.
 
'A Total Flop'
 The I.C.I.P. has been a bonanza for developers of all kinds. State Senator Franz S. Leichter, a Democrat from Manhattan, had his office study the program to figure out exactly who benefited. From 1984 to 1988 it found that of the $3.4 billion in construction value for which exemptions had been applied for, about $1.5 billion was for office buildings and hotels in Manhattan. About $543 million was for retail stores, $103 million for movie theaters, $34 million for doctors' offices and $9 million for fast-food restaurants like McDonald's and White Castle. Only $191 million, or 5.6 percent, was for industrial projects, one of the program's main goals, a far smaller proportion than under the old system. A later report covering 1988 to 1990 found that those trends had continued. One Brooklyn McDonald's has received an exemption on $186,000 of its assessed value until 2002, with the exemption declining at 10 percent a year for the next nine years. There were more White Castles and sports clubs among the applications, and an Elks Club on Staten Island. Just 6.6 percent of the construction cost was for projects in the Bronx. Over 30 percent was for projects in mid and lower Manhattan, mainly office buildings, luxury hotels, restaurants and movie theaters.
"I've been critical of I.C.I.P. all along because it tends to go to people who don't need it and for development that doesn't necessarily create jobs," said Senator Leichter. "It's a total flop." City officials have defended the program by stating that if just one of every 19 projects was built because of a subsidy, it was worthwhile because tax revenues generated by that one compensated for those lost or deferred elsewhere.
Ruth Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, has called the argument "ridiculous." There is no evidence to determine exactly how many projects were built because of the incentives plan, she said. Even if some were, she asked, why not try to eliminate the others so tax benefits are not needlessly given away? If I.C.I.P. exemptions had been 4 percent less, she said, the city would have avoided laying off 158 public health assistants in school health programs and TB clinics.
The Dinkins administration has been trying for over a year to tailor a program that would eliminate exemptions for new construction of commercial properties south of 96th Street in Manhattan yet help developers in Lower Manhattan upgrade older buildings. But because of jurisdictional disputes with the Council, and opposition from the real estate community, the program was allowed to expire last December.
By voting to extend it until July, the city has revived a program that subsidizes new construction when the vacancy rate for commercial buildings hovers around 17 percent. The six-month period presents another window of opportunity for those adept at tapping public subsidy programs. When it appeared the program might expire last year, there was a flurry of applications including ones from Donald Trump for the office and retail portion of his Penn Yards project and a developer seeking to build a new hotel on West 55th Street.
The City Council and City Hall have now given themselves six months to prove they can do better. That interval should provide clues on whether it is still business as usual in city politics.

GRAPHIC: Photo: This McDonald's restaurant in downtown Brooklyn received an exemption on $186,000 of its assessed value until 2002. (Steve Brown)
 
Graph: "Deferred," tracks values of exemptions given by New York City's industrial and commercial incentive programs in fiscal years, 1986-1991 (Source: New York City Dept. of Finance)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALF (LSE) (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: ALLANFIELD GROUP PLC (57%); CITY COUNCIL (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX INCREASES (73%); TRENDS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); CORRUPTION (65%); 

PERSON: BARTLETT, SARAH

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



30 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
As the U.N.'s Armies Grow, The Talk Is of Preventing War

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

 BODY:
The United Nations has just presented the world with its biggest peacekeeping bill ever -- more than $3 billion for operations designed to still the guns and sheathe the knives in Yugoslavia and Cambodia. Finding the money will not be easy, but the very decision to spend it reflects a new reality: With the cold war over, the major powers appear to have accepted the notion that peacekeeping in distant places is less costly than letting the fighting continue. And there is also more interest in what might be the cheapest course of all -- preventing the fighting in the first place.
On Friday the Security Council voted to send Cambodia a 22,000-strong mixed military, civil and police force at a cost of some $1.9 billion with a further $850 million for resettling refugees. Meanwhile, it has dispatched an advance guard to Yugoslavia while it tries to reduce a bill initially put at $634 million. 
 The total cost of these two operations is more than four times the roughly $715 million the world paid for all other peacekeeping operations last year, and getting the bill paid could prove tricky. The United Nations is already owed $377 million in unpaid peacekeeping dues; the United States, whose share of such bills is 30 per cent, owes $140 million and the former Soviet Union $127 million. Congress may be reluctant to give nearly $1 billion to foreigners during a recession-impacted election year, and the Soviet Union, whose people are wracked by economic chaos, doesn't even exist any more.
But none of that changes the fact that making peace is still a lot cheaper than making war. Operation Desert Storm cost $1.5 billion a day and the four warring factions in Cambodia alone have received more than $3 billion in subsidies and arms from their rival backers during the 21 years they have been fighting one another.
Above all, the big new peacekeeping bills point to two significant developments in the United Nations' approach to the trouble spots in the post-cold war world.
First, peacekeeping operations are becoming more ambitious and complex as the United Nations steps up its efforts to engineer political solutions to intractable disputes. Second, there is a growing realization that preventing conflicts is cheaper than cleaning up afterward.
 
Lingering Commitments
 The United Nations has always tried to combine keeping the peace with making peace so its soldiers could go home again, though it has not always been successful. Blue-helmeted peacekeeping forces were first sent to patrol the mountains of Kashmir in 1949, and they are still in place. So is the 300-strong United Nations Truce Supervision Organization, which arrived in the Middle East in 1948 at the end of the first Arab-Israeli war. The United Nations Disengagement Observer Force has been on the Golan Heights since 1974, and the ineptly named United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon was first deployed in 1978. Peacekeepers have been on Cyprus now for 27 years.
But recently the United Nations has started having better luck with its peacemaking efforts. In territories as diverse as Namibia and Central America it has persuaded the parties to disputes to resolve their differences through the ballot box, bringing in peacekeeping soldiers and police officers to insure a free and fair electoral campaign by disarming guerrilla forces, confining the army to barracks and supervising the local police.
The demise of the cold war is a major reason for these peacemaking successes; it has allowed Moscow, Washington and Beijing to pull back from their three-way involvement in Cambodia's civil war, for example, and it allowed Washington to let the United Nations into its Central American back yard for the first time.
"With the end of the cold war we see new well-rounded operations that enforce human rights and transform the situation in a country instead of keeping the lid on a crisis," Sir Brian Urquhart, a former Under Secretary General in charge of peacekeeping, said.
At the same time, the Security Council has drawn the obvious lesson from the steep peacekeeping bills; in January it asked Secretary General Boutros Ghali to suggest what more the United Nations might do to settle disputes before they lead to fighting and expensive cleanup operations.
Various ideas have been suggested in the past for giving the United Nations a stronger role in preventive diplomacy. The Secretary General might undertake more personal initiatives to patch up budding quarrels, for example. He could report potential threats to peace to the Security Council more rapidly. The Council might summon antagonists to appear before it and order them to accept mediation. It could agree to deploy peacekeeping forces in countries that feel threatened.
Sir Brian and other experts have gone further, calling for a United Nations rapid deployment force able to intervene in countries like Somalia, where all semblance of government has collapsed amid civil war.
In its summit declaration the Security Council also widened its definition of what constitutes a threat to peace and security in today's world, saying this now includes "proliferation of all weapons of mass destruction" as well as "nonmilitary sources of instability in the economic, social, humanitarian and ecological fields."
Such language seems to cover just about anything that could go wrong in the present-day world. So a more politically intrusive United Nations may be the real price the world must pay if it wants fewer conflicts and smaller peacekeeping bills in the future.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Under the U.N. Flag," lists number of United Nations personnel in peacekeeping operations and in which country or region (Source: United Nations)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (94%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (79%); INDIA (55%); 

STATE: JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMBODIA (94%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (79%); INDIA (55%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: PEACEKEEPING (90%); ARMIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); DESERT STORM (71%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (71%); POLICE FORCES (69%); POLITICS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



31 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
India Flirts With Hope, Despite Disasters

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN

DATELINE: NEW DELHI

 BODY:
The curtain descended with some finality last week on the political era in which India emerged from colonialism. For the first time in more than four decades, the country's dominant Congress Party -- the party of Jawaharlal Nehru, his daughter Indira Gandhi and her son Rajiv -- reconstituted itself outside the dynasty's shadow. Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao, an elderly, achingly uncharismatic, life-long party loyalist was, not surprisingly, elected party president and, in the party's first semblance of democracy in decades, something approaching elections were held for senior party posts.
The transformation of the Congress Party mirrors broader changes at work in the country today, changes reflecting India's efforts to reorder its economy, find its place in a radically changed world and begin to address the welter of social problems the country faces. 
 Just nine months ago, in the aftermath of Rajiv Gandhi's assassination, India's plight seemed so acute -- a collapsing economy, talk of national disintegration, surging sectarian conflicts -- that despair over the country's future had settled over even the wildest optimists.
"I am amazed that during the last eight months, things don't look that bad anymore," said Venkat S. Narayan, a prominent columnist here. "The thing about India is that it's so big. Every day 50,000 people are being born. There's such a disparity between rich and poor. But when you judge our country, don't compare us with the West. Judge India with the other third-world countries. The fact that this country is being run on democratic lines, even though everybody can't read and write and even though there isn't always enough to eat for everybody -- it may not be the most perfect system in the world, but we're trying to make the best of it."
Indeed, in the last eight months, Mr. Rao has shed so many of India's hallowed traditions and has reshaped so many fundamental policies that his colleagues in the Congress Party and the opposition in Parliament have been left largely open-mouthed. In short order, the Prime Minister abandoned the rickety socialist economic structure left to him by the Gandhis, declared that foreign investors were welcome, established full diplomatic relations with Israel and began to respond with some warmth to American overtures.
Still, the economic restructuring that Mr. Rao has begun comes at a price. Like Eastern Europe, India is confronting sudden inflation as long-suppressed prices are allowed to drift toward their real level, and unemployment is threatened as large state enterprises face the need to scale back on unproductive payrolls. India's 150 million farmers are upset that fertilizer subsidies are being cut, and many of the 19 million government bureaucrats fear that they will not be needed. Industrialists, confronted by the new challenge of foreign competition, worry that their products may not measure up.
As yet, there is no serious parliamentary opposition to Mr. Rao's new order. The largest opposition party, the Bharatiya Janata Party, a Hindu revivalist organization that has mushroomed by appealing to deep-seated Hindu prejudices and anti-Muslim rhetoric, has, with a few quibbles, declared its support of the Government. "As of today," said Jay Dubashi, the economic spokesman for the party, "we would not be very different. And Lal Kishanchand Advani, the party's leader in Parliament, expressed a combination of admiration and disbelief at Mr. Rao's performance so far. "It is not a small thing," Mr. Advani said, "for a party to discard a policy they have placed on a pedestal for 40 years."
 
Grave Problems, Little Dissent
 The disintegrating parties on the left, including the Communists, are up in arms over the economic changes because, they predict, the poor will suffer. But there is little they can actually do now to stop Mr. Rao.
Even internationally, Mr. Rao faces little criticism, except again from the left. With the Soviet Union a receding memory, India struck out onto unfamiliar ground in foreign policy. Mr. Rao scuttled the knee-jerk anti-American rhetoric of the past, made overtures to Western Europe and Japan, and voted against Libya, a former third-world ally, at the United Nations. Even with Pakistan, tensions are relatively subdued.
Despite these initiatives, however, Mr. Rao does confront a number of grave problems at home. In Kashmir, India is fighting a full-scale separatist insurgency in a valley where four million Muslims live and over which India and Pakistan have fought before. In the war, Indian security forces are regularly accused of horrendous human rights violations. In the Sikh-dominated Punjab, the site of another secessionist guerrilla campaign, the Government tried to stage elections for Parliament and the local state assembly, the first in five years. But only 20 percent of the eligible voters -- most of them Hindus -- cast ballots, and they did so under the gun barrels of 250,000 troops. So the sweeping victory for Congress Party candidates was unconvincing, and many Sikhs who never expressed support for secession appear to be abandoning whatever faith they had in New Delhi.
Other glaring problems are receiving short shrift. Virtually no attention has been paid to India's unchecked explosion in population, which grew by 23.5 percent over the last decade to 850 million. Half of India's people are illiterate and massacres committed by one caste group against another are still a common occurrence.
At the moment though, even the persistence of such crushing problems has not gotten in the way of a sense that changes -- fundamental and permanent changes -- may at last be coming. As Mr. Narayan, the columnist put it, "My optimism is slowly but definitely returning about the future of my country."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister, P. V. Narasimha Rao represents a new political era. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;INDIA INDIA (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); TRENDS (69%); WRITERS (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%); FERTILIZERS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%); 

PERSON: GARGAN, EDWARD A MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



32 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
How Big a Military Does A Superpower Need?

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
It took 40 years and more than $11 trillion to win the cold war. Now that it's over, the question is, how much defense is enough?
It may be the most vexing public policy question of the decade because, in a real sense, the largest thing standing in the way of financing a new domestic agenda in America is the annual allocation for national defense. 
 Also standing in the way are some new warnings against cutting defense too quickly or too deeply because it might: (1) sap the potency of the American superpower by weakening the fabric of military organizations, and (2) put two million defense industry workers on the street while the economy is weak.
The problem for most in government is to know how to cut.
Many Americans are reluctant to jeopardize the superpower status the United States acquired during World War II and has retained for half a century, both to counter an expansionist Soviet Union and to project itself as an enforcer of stability. But few think a robust American military role in the world should come at the expense of stinting on research, investment and productivity.
If there is one thing for certain, the Pentagon is not going to take the first step in significantly reducing its role or its claim on national resources.
That was evident in two unrelated recent events.
On Feb. 4, the Pentagon leadership sent classified instructions to the military services to plan their force and weapon requirements for the rest of the decade based on seven "illustrative" scenarios of future foreign conflicts that might draw the United States into combat.
It wasn't that these scenarios weren't prudent planning tools in a long tradition of internal Pentagon war gaming, but the point that struck some Pentagon critics was that these scenarios seemed to have been tailored to justify the existing "Base Force" plan for a 1.6 million-member military, down to the last man and howitzer. The problem remains that the Base Force was conceived in 1990, before the collapse of the Soviet Union and the splintering of its vaunted military establishment.
With the Pentagon's largest enemy devolving into much-reduced republican defense forces across Eurasia, critics asked, is there no room to consider a more modest force level?
Then, on Feb. 11, the American attack submarine U.S.S. Baton Rouge collided with a Russian submarine within sight of the Russian shoreline. The Navy declared that the sub, whose armaments include torpedoes, Tomahawk cruise missiles and, at times, tactical nuclear weapons, was on a routine patrol to monitor Russian naval movements.
But some American defense experts wondered why the Navy was undertaking such provocative maneuvers at a time when the former Soviet military had all but stood down.
 
'What's Going On?'
 Representative Les Aspin, Democrat of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said that when he picked up his newspaper and read of the submarine incident, he gasped, "What the hell is going on?"
It wasn't that the Navy should not be conducting routine patrols in international waters or that the United States shouldn't be monitoring the former Soviet Navy, but sending lethal and stealthy submarines near the Russian coast to play cat-and-mouse with Russian subs was hardly a gesture worthy of the new era.
Whatever "routine" mission the Navy's submariners were undertaking the day the Russian Sierra-class attack boat crashed into the Baton Rouge, the episode raised the same question as the war scenario instructions to the individual services: are the engines of the post-cold war American military revving too high?
The military leadership says no. The Pentagon's Undersecterary for Policy, Paul W. Wolfowitz, who supervised the war scenario study, was the first Administration official last week to try to debunk any notion that the Pentagon remains trapped by its cold war mentality. "It's a lot of nonsense," he said in a television interview. But when asked whether the Pentagon could compromise on its Base Force, he paused, and finally said, "I think the United States can afford the security that we're buying with this program, and has to afford it."
William W. Kaufmann, professor emeritus at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, adviser to several cold war defense secretaries, and a proponent of cutting the cold war military in half, says from his perch at the Brookings Institution: "I really think Paul Wolfowitz should be ashamed of himself; he should go and hide instead of defend this. I think it is sort of self-evident that they fake these scenarios and end up with contingencies that just so happen to justify the Base Force."
But Professor Kaufmann and Mr. Wolfowitz know that this question will not be settled in the Pentagon or in the halls of Washington's think tanks, but rather in the Congress, where politicians answerable to taxpayers and voters must decide.
With its lock on a quarter of the budget pie, defense is the only pool of money that Congress can raid to get more resources for any of the other roughly equal parts: national debt repayment, entitlements like Social Security, and everything else, including health, education, environment and science programs.
 
Letting a Commission Do It
 It may be that Congress ultimately turns to a nonpartisan commission to recommend defense priorities for the future, to give political cover for some cuts that could disrupt communities in the same way base closings did. One good example is the Navy aircraft carrier that is planned for 1995. The ship's nuclear reactors have to be ordered and funded this year, so deeper cuts in the Navy could put tens of thousands of workers out of jobs in Newport News, Va., home of the only carrier-building shipyard.
Part of the answer on defense cuts will come this year. The plan that Mr. Bush sent to Congress in January holds on to the Base Force, but trims $43 billion from the $1.2 trillion five-year defense spending plan. Mr. Aspin, laying down what he considers a centrist Democratic alternative, has suggested doubling this cut to $91 billion over five years, with deeper cuts if the world continues to become a safer place.
But as Mr. Aspin acknowledged in his presentation to the House Budget Committee, "This year, more than any in the recent past, there will be real pain, including pink slips, associated with cutting defense. Enthusiasm for cutting defense may be hard to sustain, if there is no possibility of spending the savings on reinvestment and domestic programs."
Finally, Mr. Aspin had to acknowledge that in Congress, where a majority must be found among Democrats and Republicans to pass any defense bill, "deficit reduction, while important, may not be a goal worth the pain really large defense cuts will inflict."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE COLD WAR (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E PAUL W WOLFOWITZ (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



33 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Another Losing Battle With Japan?

 BODY:
As the United States has lost ground to Japan in so many ways, Americans have at least been able to take heart in knowing that their country is unsurpassed in the amount its industry spends for research and development. But now even that edge might be slipping.
In February a Federal agency reported that for the first time since the 1970's American spending on research and development, including Government and private money, has begun to shrink. This week the Competitiveness Policy Council, recently created by Congress, is expected to report that in terms of research spending Japanese business is now No. 1 
 The United States has already conceded the lead in capital investment. Though Japan has half the population of America and an economy two-thirds the size, it spent $586 billion on new factories and equipment in 1990, compared with $524 billion by the United States.
Federal officials continue to insist that American business retains the lead in research spending. But some of their critics question the methods used to calculate the expenditures. Because exchange rates can swing wildly and are considered poor indicators of a currency's buying power, economists try to give a truer picture by making adjustments. Under this weighted system, the dollar was worth an average of 204 yen in 1989, though its actual market value was 138 yen. By that measure, Japan spent the equivalent of $41.90 billion, or a little more than half the American sum, on research in 1989. But if calculated at market exchange rates, the figure jumps to $61.83 billion. And as calculated by the Japanese, it jumps to $71.10 billion or roughly what American business spent.
Complicating the debate is the fact that the American Government, unlike the Japanese, spends huge amounts on research. But the results often end up in the public domain, free to anyone who can read a scientific journal.
New Technology Week, a trade publication based in Washington, noted that no matter who is right, the overall trend is clear. "The R.& D. growth rate in Japan has been consistently over 10 percent for the past three years," it said. "Meanwhile, the growth rate of industrial R.& D. in the United States has been virtually stagnant."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (95%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); TRENDS (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CURRENCIES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



34 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: U.S. MOVES TO BAR AMERICANS' BUYING SOVIET TECHNOLOGY

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
The Bush Administration has quietly blocked the purchase of missiles, rocket engines, satellites, space reactors, spacecraft and other aerospace technology from the former Soviet Union, Federal and industry officials said last week.
The Federal officials said their opposition to the purchases is part of an Administration policy intended to force the Russian space and military industry into such a decline that it poses no future threat to the United States. 
 But the policy, which threatens hundreds of potential deals by Government agencies and American industry, has come under mounting criticism both in the United States and abroad, and some analysts predict it may be relaxed or reversed.
 
Russia Offers Trade-Off
 The Russian Government is trying to reverse the policy by telling the White House privately that in exchange for the recent easing of its longstanding objections to development of an antimissile system, it wants Washington to allow the importing of high-tech Russian goods.
This trade-off was discussed by President Boris N. Yeltsin during his meeting with President Bush at Camp David, Md., the Presidential retreat, on Feb. 1, said a Federal official who spoke on condition of anonymity. No agreement was reached, however, the official said.
In recent months, teams of Federal and civilian bargain hunters have combed the former Soviet Union for the cream of its industrial complex, which centers on rocketry and space goods. The items are often more advanced than similar ones in West and can be purchased at close-out sale prices. So far, however, the shopping spree has fizzled.
The Government can control the flow of Russian space goods into this country through import rules and licenses, and Federal and industry officials said they did not believe a single major deal had been approved.
Federal officials say their policy is based largely on the belief that many space products have potential military uses. Large rockets, the officials note, can loft either astronauts or nuclear warheads.
The import ban is seen as complementing the Bush Administration's bid to redirect Russian nuclear bomb designers. The Administration recently pledged $25 million to help establish an institute to keep them occupied with peaceful scientific work. In each case, the idea is to defuse what the Administration regards as a potential military threat.
But American critics of this policy, including some Federal officials, say the acquisition of Moscow's best technologies could save Washington and American industry many billions of dollars in development costs, ease Russia's economic woes, discourage the spread of Russian scientists, engineers and technicians to the third world and help the United States compete with foreign rivals.
 
High Criteria Set
 Publicly, the Defense and State Departments have shown great reluctance to support any purchases. And privately, while apparently issuing no blanket prohibitions, the departments are making the criteria for any deal so tough as to be virtually impossible to meet, industry experts say.
Donald J. Atwood, Deputy Secretary of Defense, told the Senate committee that considers defense appropriations last week that he had blocked his department from buying a Russian space reactor, saying the Administration had "great concern" about aiding the military-industrial complex of the former Soviet Union.
John P. Boright, the State Department's deputy assistant secretary for scientific affairs, said the issue was "sensitive and complex" since most of Moscow's space complex is "tied to military operations."
The United States, Dr. Boright told a Congressional hearing on Feb. 21, had to be "cautious not to inadvertently support organizations and capabilities that could represent a future threat."
That stance was challenged last week by two Senators, Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, and Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, both of whom argued that potential military threats had been eclipsed by economic ones.
On Tuesday, Senator Mikulski, who chairs the Appropriations subcommittee that oversees NASA, wrote President Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d urging that a special Federal working group be created to see if Moscow's space assets might aid the American civilian space program. She said America's foreign rivals were sure to seize the opportunity if the United States did not.
"It is my hope," Senator Mikulski wrote Mr. Bush, "that our nation will not be placed at an economic disadvantage."
In recent months, virtually the entire Russian arsenal and space program has gone up for sale.
While tanks, ships, jets and other military items are up for grabs, American experts are tantalized mainly by high-technology items relating to rocketry and space, in which the Soviet Union often excelled. Many of the items in the Soviet space inventory are not even made in the West, while others are often regarded as superior quality, making the catalogue of Russian products a high-tech bonanza.
Federal experts have traveled frequently and quietly to Moscow and other points in Russia in recent months to inspect the merchandise. Among the American companies interested in the Russian wares are Aerojet General and the Pratt & Whitney Company.
Russian goods that American officials have examined include an advanced rocket engine known as the RD-170, said to be the most powerful liquid-fueled rocket engine in the world. It powers the first stage of Russia's relatively new 20-story Energiya, the world's largest rocket, which is designed for carrying payloads deep into space.
Another item being offered for sale is a compact nuclear reactor for generating power in space, similar to those used by some Soviet spy satellites. Last year, Pentagon officials announced they intended to spend $12 million to buy a Topaz 2 nuclear space reactor from Russia and that the deal was almost complete. Mr. Atwood, however, has repeatedly blocked the sale.
 
NASA and Pentagon Eager
 Leaders of the Pentagon's Strategic Defense Initiative, the antimissile research program known informally as "Star Wars," are now pressing to buy more than 50 technologies from their Russian counterparts, including high-temperature electrical switches called tacitrons and neutral particle beam technologies for space weapons.
For its part, NASA has been eager to study and possibly buy a wide range of technologies, including rendezvous and docking equipment for spacecraft. Months ago it asked the State Department for permission to approach the Russians.
"To date," said a NASA official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, "we've been sandbagged."
Publicly, the Federal official most vocal against buying Russian technology has been Mr. Atwood. Last year, he traveled to Moscow and toured a number of weapon plants and industries, afterward expressing skepticism that Russia was really trying to shift from a military to a civilian economy.
 
Russian 'Obsession' Cited
 He told reporters he was worried about what he called a Russian "obsession" with military-related high technology. A worrisome example, Mr. Atwood said, was a rocket being marketed for lofting peaceful payloads into space that could also fire nuclear warheads. "I want to make sure," he told reporters, "that we don't encourage" that kind of technology.
Upon returning to Washington, Mr. Atwood barred Pentagon officials from traveling to Russia without approval from him or Defense Secretary Dick Cheney.
For their part, Russian officials have publicly expressed growing frustration with the ban on purchases and the lack of cooperation among technical experts of East and West. "We have been talking about this for far too long," Dr. Yuri P. Semyonov, general director of NPO Energiya, a top maker of Russian rockets, told a Senate subcommittee hearing on Feb. 21. "It is time to pass from words to deeds."
Analysts say the Russian antimissile offer might tempt the Bush Administration, despite its goal of dismantling Moscow's military production complex. Among other things, Russian assent is ultimately necessary if the United States is to deploy any kind of antimissile system, since it would require a renegotiation of the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, which bans such endeavors.
But skeptics about joint work on antimissile defenses say trade with the Russians is still a good thing since it could help stabilize the Russian economy and avert a relapse of totalitarianism.
"Our current policy is to disarm them so when there's a reaction they'll be less armed," said John E. Pike, head of space policy at the Federation of American Scientists, a private Washington group. "What we should do is engage them so they'll be less likely to have that reaction."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC) ; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ARMS SALES ABROAD; MISSILES; ROCKETS AND ROCKET PROPULSION; AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES AND SCIENCES; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SPACE PROPULSION (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TRENDS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (58%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



35 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-14
 
SPACE DEALS WITH RUSSIA BLOCKED 
 The Bush Administration has quietly blocked the purchase of missiles, rocket engines, satellites, space reactors, spacecraft and other aerospace technology from the former Soviet Union. 1
 
RUSSIANS COPING WITH CAPITALISM
Eight weeks into Russia's gamble with economic reform, which brought skyrocketing prices, most people have learned to cope with the Government's economic "shock therapy." 1
 
RIGHTS MISSION TO IRAQ IS SOUGHT
Britain and France are pushing for the United Nations to send a special envoy to Iraq to report on the plight of the Kurds and other oppressed groups, diplomats said. 3
 
PRETORIA AID TO INKATHA ADMITTED
The South African armed forces secretly spent more than $1 million for paramilitary training and wages for 200 loyalists of the Zulu political movement Inkatha, a former aide to Inkatha's leader acknowledged. 3
 
SAUDIS CAMPAIGN AGAINST ZEALOTS
Saudi Arabia's Government is beginning a quiet campaign to persuade wealthy Saudis who give money to Islamic causes to beware of financing radical fundamentalist. 8
 
GERMANY OFFERS TO MEDIATE
Germany has agreed to mediate between Japan and Russia on a longstanding territorial dispute that has blocked large-scale Japanese aid for the former Soviet Union. 14
 
A Yugoslav republic was tense on the eve of elections. 6
 
Foreign visitors to Kenya's game parks have been attacked. 7
 
National 16-24
 
FLAW IN MEDICARE BILLING
A new Federal law designed to protect Medicare patients against excessive doctors' bills has failed in its mission, said state insurance commissioners and Medicare patients themselves. 1
 
BACK AT WORK, AND HAPPY
Experiences of the 500 people hired by the Sheraton hotel in Chicago after standing in line in bitter cold with thousands of other job seekers suggest a fundamental restructuring of the economy. 1
 
A BATTLE WITH WORDS
Fighting to crush a surprisingly resilient challenger, the Bush campaign believes it has at last found the perfect weapon: Patrick Buchanan's own words. 1
 
President Bush campaigned in Georgia and Texas. 20
 
TURMOIL AMONG DEMOCRATS
Approaching 10 days of a crowded political calendar, the Democratic Party finds itself without a clear leader in the Presidential campaign and with an increasingly divisive contest. 18
 
Paul Tsongas and the high moral ground. 18
 
Bush ended an effort to win an endorsement in California. 21
 
Primary voting in the South no longer fits the stereotype. 22
 
RIPPLES FROM TAX REVOLT
Proposition 13, the California ballot initiative that put a ceiling on property tax increases and sparked a tax revolt across the nation, made it to the United States Supreme Court last week, as opponents argued that it created unconstitutional tax inequities. 16
 
TRAVEL AGENTS' DREAM
Looking for a way to expand the state's economy, Alaska has found success in marketing the sky. Chatanika Journal. 16
 
ACTION IN NORIEGA TRIAL
The Noriega trial produced more activity outside the courthouse, indeed outside the country, than in the courtroom itself.17
 
A surgeon is barred from injecting silicone into patients. 24
 
The first measles outbreak of 1992 is reported. 16
 
Regional 26-40
 
3 LIVES COLLIDE IN BROOKLYN
The menace of poverty, drugs and guns that stalks Brooklyn's East New York neighborhood was underscored by the killing of two teen-agers in a high school hallway last week. 1
 
APPEAL OF CHARISMATIC CATHOLICS
Lacing their lively songs and chants with the ancient ceremony of the Catholic Mass, charismatics have formed a special brand of spirituality that is typifying more and more services throughout the New York region and the country. 28
 
D'AMATO'S TERMINATOR POLITICS
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato's re-election campaign is an object lesson in the advantages of the Terminator-type politics perfected by the Senator, who practices a disregard for political politesse. 26
 
DIFFERING PLANS FOR HOMELESS
A decade ago, New York became the first city in the nation to provide shelter as a right to any and all who asked for it. Only a handful of cities followed, and recently some of them have begun to draw their open doors shut. 31
 
Obituaries 38-39
 
Arts/Reviews 52-53
 
Fashion 46-47
 
Pastimes 54-55
 
Weddings 48-51

GRAPHIC: Read his shirt. The President campaigns in the South. 20 (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); GERMANY (90%); GEORGIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KENYA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TRAVEL AGENTS INTERNATIONAL (50%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); GERMANY (90%); GEORGIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KENYA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); MEDICARE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SPACE EXPLORATION (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (75%); FUNDAMENTALISM (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); REFERENDUMS (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); TAX LAW (69%); BALLOTS (68%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); INSURANCE (64%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (64%); HOTEL STAFF (63%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); PROPERTY TAX (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%); RELIGION (52%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (50%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



36 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: Refugees From Recession Fill Hotel's Payroll

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 29

 BODY:
A month ago, Bobby Vaughn was a sad casualty of the recession. He had not worked full time in a year. His construction business had failed with the collapse of the building industry. He was trying to feed his two children on odd jobs here and there. Nobody seemed to be hiring.
Then a new downtown Chicago hotel, the Sheraton, held a casting call for the unemployed, the promise of unskilled jobs at above minimum wage. 
 Mr. Vaughn was in line by 2 A.M., one of 9,000 faces waiting in a brutal wind and snow for a chance at jobs like busboy and housekeeper. Lined up elbow to elbow, five and six deep, they were presented on the nightly news and on the front pages of newspapers as a river of desperation, a living symbol of a recession that would not go away.
Now he and 499 others are on the payroll again, some for the first time in years. On Friday they got their first paychecks. A few planned to splurge on dinner out or toys for their children. Most said they were too afraid to spend anything.
They are now gearing up for the arrival of the hotel's first paying guests this Sunday, practicing their "good mornings" and "bon appetits," memorizing the room service menus or going over the hotel's floor plan in their minds.
Many were former managers and professionals who had to settle for jobs they were more than qualified for and wages that were a fraction of what they once earned. But times are hard, they said, and they were glad to take what they could get.
"I was willing to do anything," Mr. Vaughn said. "I needed some steady work. If it took camping out, I'd camp out. I knew what I was up against."
Mr. Vaughn got a job as a janitor, paying $200 a week, about a quarter of what he made running his construction business. Now, instead signing invoices and supervising staff, he wears a crisp gray uniform and cheerfully dusts the lobby baseboards and scrubs toilets in the men's room. He has already volunteered to work overtime.
 
In Their Shoes, in Line
 In a winter of layoff notices and plant closings, what Mr. Vaughn and the others endured to get mostly menial jobs suggests a fundamental restructuring of the economy, specialists say, one that has produced an employer's market where job security is a bonus and everyone feels vulnerable.
"From many people's point of view, it looks like it's a shrinking pie and their piece is getting smaller," said Dr. William Roiter, a workplace psychologist in Boston. "Workers see those people on line and can see themselves on line."
The basic rules of the game have changed as companies gear up for survival rather than growth.
"The social contract between employer and employee that made people feel comfortable about their jobs just isn't there anymore," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at C. J. Lawrence, a financial consulting concern. "The contract's been broken. When you see blue chip companies like I.B.M. and G.M. firing people repeatedly it unnerves those lucky enough to hold on to their jobs. There really is no place to hide."
That has put pressure on workers to do anything just to stay on the payroll. "In good times, you could always say, 'I'll go across the street,' " said Gary Sieland, the hotel's senior vice president and managing director. "Now there is no across the street."
 
Chicago's Bitter Winter
 Probably no one in the country knows more about the value of a job than the people who stood in subzero weather to get one. The enthusiasm is palpable. You can see the bounce in their walk.
"We have people down on their knees, cleaning the dust and they still have that smile on their face," said Charlene Walter, the hotel's director of training.
The 1,200-room convention hotel, which broke ground on the banks of the Chicago River in November 1989, before anyone here had thought of recession, began hiring just as Illinois fell on especially hard times. In the last quarter of 1991, the state lost more than 20,000 jobs, including nearly 3,000 positions when Midway Airlines shut down in November. By December the unemployment rate in Chicago had reached 10.3 percent, well above the national average of 7.1 percent that month.
The line of job seekers outside the Sheraton put a desperate face on the numbers. "It was a very vivid picture that the recession that hit the East Coast had really come to roost in Chicago," said Susan Fincke, spokeswoman for the city's Office of Employment and Training.
Shivering as snowflakes collected on their scarves and eyelashes, some people waited 10 hours interview for jobs that paid between $5 and $9 an hour. Tensions rose and fights broke out whenever someone tried to cut in line. So many people showed up that for the second day and third day of interviews, the hotel rented a building at Navy Pier to keep them out of the cold.
As recession refugees, the applicants said they felt more like actors trying out for a movie than people just looking for a job. At any given time up to 120 managers were questioning applicants simultaneously, seeing the pain in people who had not worked in years and who said they would literally do anything the hotel wanted them to do.
"You would look people in the eye, and you can't fathom how they're going to make it," said Sherry LeClair, the hotel's human resources director. "People were determined to sell themselves and show us how much they wanted to work. We had people with tears in their eyes."
The interviewers said they had to remind themselves not to let pity sway them. "To know you couldn't hire everybody you saw, you just had to fight to keep from getting personally attached," said Phyliss North, the hotel's room service manager.
With their pick of the lot, managers said they hired people who demonstrated an interest in a long-term commitment with the company and who were outgoing enough to work well with guests. They were able to choose people with the most education and experience for the job, which often did not mean those who had been out of work the longest or were necessarily the neediest.
City officials say that each new job helps, but that problems are far deeper. "Anything that brings jobs in that number is a godsend," said Mary Gonzalez Koenig, the city's commissioner of employment and training. "It is something where there was nothing. But this is a stopgap."
 
62 Rejection Letters
 For now people are relieved just to have their foot in the lobby. Before the Sheraton, Amy Fattor, a marketing and promotions specialist with a bachelor's degree from the University of Colorado, had collected rejection letters like baseball cards -- exactly 62 from beleaguered advertising agencies over the last seven months while she waited tables to pay the rent.
She got in line at the Sheraton at 6:30 A.M. and stood in high heels for eight hours for a job with benefits and hopefully a future. She quit waitressing and a took a pay cut to become a room service captain, coordinating the room service meals that go out on her shift.
"I knew if I could get my foot in the door, I could develop a career here," Ms. Fattor said.
Many of the new hires have been so toughened by the recession that they were wary about what kind of company they joined.
Shannon Jackson lost one job as a reservations clerk at Midway Airlines when it folded last November and a previous job at architectural firm when it went under with the decline in construction.
 
Checking Company's Books
 She decided the next time she wanted to work for a company that would be around for while. So she researched the Sheraton's finances before getting in line. "I wasn't going to waste my time with a company that wasn't financially sound," Ms. Jackson said. "I was afraid to trust companies. I don't want to go through another bankruptcy."
She found that the hotel chain and its parent company, the ITT Corporation, had prospered despite the recession. Now she is a guest relations operator, a kind of concierge assistant.
For the past two weeks, the new employees have been in training, going to seminars on wine-tasting or bed-making and taking quizzes and final exams with questions like, "Which side of the plate does the salad fork go on?"
Tony Burnham, until now an unemployed shoe salesman, is learning how to fold napkins and uncork wine for his job setting tables for room service. Mike Angshed, a ramp agent at Midway before it shut down last year, is now a bellhop trying to memorize the guest room layout. Cornell Ousley, a onetime manager at a McDonald's who was jobless for seven months, is learning how to work the dishwashers on his job as a kitchen steward.
"It doesn't bother me one bit to do whatever they ask," Mr. Ousley said, before loading glasses on the rack. "My boss doesn't have to ask me to do half the things I do."
Mr. Angshed looked for a job with the airlines, but none was hiring. "I don't mind starting at the bottom," he said. "There's no place to go but up. I feel real lucky to have this job. I was flattered I was chosen.".
 
Thousands Still in the Cold
 The new workers have visions of cars and new sofas, paying down bills, building up savings or just not having to borrow rent money anymore.
"The first thing I want to do is mail off a payment to my creditors so I can get some sleep at night," Ms. Jackson said, "so I can stop worrying about that 20 percent interest."
Many of them are dreaming of moving up to front desk jobs or into management. But 8,500 others are still waiting for a call from Sheraton. The hotel plans to hire 500 more people by the end of the year, and job seekers like Alfred Anderson Jr., an unemployed accounting clerk, are hoping to be one of them.
"I applied for accounting clerk, waiter, bellboy, anything," Mr. Anderson said. "I just wanted to get a job started in there. I was trying to nail down something. I would take whatever they would give me for now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Amy Fattor/Room service captain. (Shown with Phyliss North, left, room service manager.) "I knew if I could get my foot in the door, I could
 develop a career here."; Cornell Ousley/Kitchen steward. "It doesn't bother me one bit to do whatever they ask. My boss doesn't have to ask me to do half the things I do." (Photographs by Jonathan Kirn for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Some of the 9,000 people who waited on line in Chicago on Jan. 15 for the 500 jobs being offered by a new downtown hotel, the Sheraton (Associated Press); "I was willing to do anything," said Bobby Vaughn, who used to own a construction business and got a new job paying $200 a week as a janitor at the Sheraton. "I needed some steady work. If it took camping out, I'd camp out. I knew what I was up against," he said. (Jonathan Kirn for The New York Times) (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SHERATON HOTEL (CHICAGO)

ORGANIZATION: SHERATON HOTEL (CHICAGO)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHICAGO (ILL) UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); HOTEL STAFF (76%); REFUGEES (74%); TOYS & GAMES (67%); OVERTIME (56%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL BOBBY VAUGHN (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



37 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 2050 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Candidates Records;
White House Hopes to Trip Buchanan on His Paper Trail

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 29

 BODY:
As the contest between President Bush and Patrick J. Buchanan heats up in the South, the White House believes that it has found a weapon with which to bludgeon the conservative challenger: his own words.
In recent days President Bush's campaign has moved to the attack, saying that Mr. Buchanan's past newspaper columns, speeches and interviews show him to be prejudiced against women, lacking in patriotism during the buildup to the Persian Gulf war and lacking in the experience and balance required to be President. 
 The effort suggests extensive research by Mr. Bush's campaign into the challenger's writings, and it appears likely that the White House will continue turning the spotlight on these issues.
On Friday, the Bush campaign began using a television commercial accusing Mr. Buchanan of holding a demeaning view of women. The commercial is based on a 1983 column in which he said women were "less equipped psychologically" to handle the rough-and-tumble world of business.
 
Policy Implications
 Stung, officials in Mr. Buchanan's campaign suggested that while their candidate might have expressed provocative views in the past, that did not mean he would act on all of them if elected President.
"Pat's been a columnist and commentator for over a decade," said Jerry Woodruff, communications director for the Buchanan campaign. "He makes his living by publicizing his opinions on a variety of issues, some of which are going to be controversial."
Mr. Woodruff added that "not everything he wrote about as a columnist will find its way into policy as a political leader."
Mr. Buchanan's campaign underscores a new dynamic in modern Presidential campaigns. Most aspirants for the Presidency have held elected office and have a voting record that can be examined. As a speech writer, columnist and television commentator whose mission was to generate equal measures of light and heat, Mr. Buchanan's record consists of a prodigious paper trail strewn with peppery statements.
A survey of that record discloses that Mr. Buchanan described feminists as "harridans" wielding the "castrators' knife"; said that third world hatred for South Africa "is rooted in racism and the resentment that failure always feels for success"; wrote that prejudice against homosexuals is a "normal and natural bias in favor of sound morality," and declared that a proposal to integrate the United States more closely with Germany and Japan "may set off onanistic rejoicing inside the Trilateral Commission."
Armed with a rigidly conservative philosophy and the talent to turn a phrase, Mr. Buchanan has in his writings been unafraid to state opinions in ways that his supporters say forthrightly articulates their values and his detractors consider just plain mean.
As he said in a September 1990 column, defending himself against charges that he is anti-Israeli, "The late Arthur Koestler, a Jew, wrote that 'one should either write ruthlessly what one believes to be the truth, or shut up.' "
Mr. Buchanan has declared women to be pyschologically incapable of competing in the business world, has been a strident champion of traditional Roman Catholicism, has declared that race and ethnicity are the driving forces of modern times, has questioned the value of democracy and has displayed a penchant for statements that can be construed as anti-Semitic.
At the same time, Mr. Buchanan has shown himself to be a man who prizes loyalty and is impatient with what he considers hypocrisy -- even while changing his positions on certain issues. He has written movingly of the bravery of Father Jerzy Popieluszko, the Polish priest killed by Polish communists in 1984, and painted loving portraits of his father as "quite simply the best man I ever knew."
Emblematic of Mr. Buchanan's bellicose approach to issues is a column he wrote after the 1989 Supreme Court decision that struck down laws against desecrating the American flag as unconstitutional. In that decision Justice William J. Brennan Jr. wrote that the way to preserve the flag's special role is not to punish those who feel differently, but to "persuade them they are wrong."
Mr. Buchanan thundered: "When someone spits in your mother's face, you don't sit them down and 'persuade them they are wrong.' You put a fist in their face."
 
Reversing Point on His Pen
 Indeed, in a 1990 column Mr. Buchanan foreshadowed the bare-knuckled insurgency he is waging against Mr. Bush. Assessing the successful Democratic primary campaign that former Mayor Dianne Feinstein of San Francisco waged in the California governor's race -- a campaign in which she attacked her opponent with negative commercials -- Mr. Buchanan wrote, "If there is a message lurking in last Tuesday's returns from California, it is this: Kinder plus Gentler equals Loser."
Mr. Buchanan's utterances are now being used against him by the Bush campaign. On the day after he won 37 percent of the vote in the New Hampshire primary, the Bush campaign made public a 1983 column in which Mr. Buchanan said Social Security contributions should be voluntary. And the new Bush campaign commercial seeks to make an issue of his statements regarding the ability of women to compete.
The commercial is based on a Nov. 22, 1983, column, written after the defeat of the Equal Rights Amendment, a fight led by former President Ronald Reagan. In the column, Mr. Buchanan wrote that women "are simply not endowed by nature with the same measures of single-minded ambition and the will to succeed in the fiercely competitive world of Western capitalism." Mr. Buchanan suggested that women might be more comfortable in the "honorable" and "honored" role of wife and mother.
"The momma bird builds the nest," he wrote. "So it was, so it ever shall be. Ronald Reagan is not responsible for this; God is."
Mr. Buchanan relishes tweaking the sensibilities of feminists. Last year, when women's groups vowed to exact retribution on Democrats who voted to confirm Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court despite accusations that he had sexually harassed a female subordinate, Mr. Buchanan wrote:
"As the harridans of feminism unsheath the castrator's knife on their last unemasculated bulls, Republicans should revisit the Thomas battleground, and review how they won, and how they almost lost it all."
Though fiercely anti-Communist, Mr. Buchanan in his writings indicates he is not completely sold on democracy. "Of I.B.M., the Marine Corps, the Redskins and the D.C. government, only leaders of the last are chosen by democratic procedure," he wrote in a January 1991 column. "Only the last is run on democratic, not autocratic, principles. Yet, who would choose the last as the superior institution?"
He added: " 'The cure for the ills of democracy is more democracy,' said Al Smith. The Happy Warrior had it wrong. If the people are corrupt, the more democracy, the worse the government."
Throughout the campaign Mr. Buchanan has been accused of harboring racist and anti-Semitic feelings. A review of his writings does not turn up any blatantly bigoted statements. But his works clearly indicate that Mr. Buchanan is troubled by the nation's growing racial and ethnic diversity, and that he believes whites are being shunted aside by minority groups.
"The Negroes of the 50's became the blacks of the 60's; now, the 'African-Americans' of the 90's demand racial quotas and set-asides, as the Democrats eagerly assent and a pandering G.O.P. prepares to go along," he wrote in June 1990. "Who speaks for the Euro-Americans, who founded the United States?"
 
Condemned Anti-Semitism
 In recent months, Mr. Buchanan has been dogged by accusations that he is anti-Semitic. In his writings are several statements -- mostly about Israel and what he sees as Jewish influence in determining United States policy in the Middle East -- that some Jews have found offensive.
Mr. Buchanan has termed Israel a "strategic albatross draped around the neck of the United States." He has defended a number of men like John Demjanjuk and Arthur Rudolph, who were charged with being Nazi war criminals. He has called Congress "Israeli-occupied territory."
In the months before the Persian Gulf war, he said on television that the only interests pushing for war were "the Israeli defense ministry and its amen corner in the United States." The remark caused a brief uproar and was denounced on editorial pages.
Yet Mr. Buchanan has also condemned anti-Semitism, comparing anti-Jewish bigotry with pornography. In April 1990 he wrote that "the correlation between child pornography and pedophilia is as tight as between anti-Semitic magazines and anti-Semitic acts."
 
Praising Anti-Gay Bias
 Mr. Buchanan displays little ambiguity, however, on homosexuality. He considers it an abomination and tolerance of it a slap in the face of traditional Roman Catholic teachings.
"A visceral recoil from homosexuality is the natural reaction of a healthy society wishing to preserve itself," Mr. Buchanan wrote in 1991. "A prejudice against males who engage in sodomy with one another represents a normal and natural bias in favor of sound morality."
A consistent theme in much of Mr. Buchanan's writings is what he sees as the hypocrisy of liberals, the Bush Administration and the news media.
How is it, he has argued in his columns, that the Administration can agree to economic sanctions against South Africa and not against China? Why were editorial writers so quick to criticize Richard V. Allen, a National Security Adviser under President Reagan, for accepting watches from Japanese businessmen, and so slow to castigate Geraldine A. Ferraro for the fact that her husband, a New York City landlord, rented a warehouse to a pornographer with Mafia connections? How can liberals condemn Virginia Military Academy for fighting to remain all-male, and cheer Mills College in Oakland, Calif., for seeking to stay all-female?
"What a hypocritical age we live in," he wrote in June, 1990.
But in his writings and recent statements, Mr. Buchanan has not always been consistent either.
 
A Backer, Once, of Bush
 In 1990, Mr. Buchanan wrote that the United States should protect Saudi Arabia from an Iraqi attack, "but Kuwait is not worth a war." But after the United States won the Persian Gulf war, Mr. Buchanan was unstinting in his praise for Mr. Bush.
"In prosecuting his war, President Bush has been wise to ignore advice on how to fight it from those -- right and left -- who did not share his conviction about how vital it all was," Mr. Buchanan wrote. He added: "Not since F.D.R. has an American President seemed so dominant a presence. Mr. Bush doth bestride our narrow world like a colossus."
In a June 1990 interview with the editorial board of The San Diego Union, Mr. Buchanan said Vice President Quayle "has done a much better job than he is given credit for in the press."
But on the campaign trail in Georgia, Mr. Buchanan has mocked Mr. Quayle, calling him "Little Danny Quayle" and joking that he didn't want to criticize him too much because "I don't want to be charged with child abuse."
 
Reversal on Immigration
 Perhaps the most startling turnaround for Mr. Buchanan involves his views on illegal immigration. In July 1990, he wrote that "today, we lack the moral authority to shut our own borders to massive illegal immigration, or even to insist that we are and will remain an English-speaking nation."
But in 1984, when Congress began debate over legislation to place sanctions on business that hire undocumented workers, Mr. Buchanan adopted a different position.
"What, exactly, is the problem?" he wrote. "Well, there are in the United States somewhere between 3 million and 12 million illegal, or undocumented, aliens. And what is this tiny fraction of the population doing? Well, they are working longer hours than most of us, at less desirable jobs. They are washing dishes, serving meals, cleaning up office buildings, working on farms and in factories, at hotels and restaurants all over America."
He added: "They pay sales and payroll taxes, but, by and large, keep out of the venus fly trap of the welfare state, whose agents might take too close a look at those bogus documents. So, what, exactly, is the problem?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Patrick J. Buchanan greeting employees yesterday at the Varsity fast-food restaurant while campaigning in Atlanta. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times); Patrick Buchanan (pg. 20)
 
Chart: "Buchanan's Peppery Prose"
 
Selected Quotations from the writings of Patrick J. Buchanan. His column was syndicated in newspapers across the country by Chicago Tribune Media Services.
 "The way to deal with Duke is the way the GOP dealt with the far more formidable challenge of George Wallace. Take a hard look at Duke's portfolio of winning issues; and expropriate those not in conflict with GOP principles."
 Feb. 1989 column on David Duke
 "John Kennedy was a rhetorical president, given to histrionics with little follow through."
 November 1988 column
 "Obnoxious as he is, Noriega, as of now, presents no immediate threat to vital U.S. interests in Panama -- that is, the safety of our citizens, and continued operation of the canal."
 May 1989 column before U.S. invasion of Panama
 "We also bought a U.S. armed force, which could carry out a night invasion, including paratroop drops, into a country defended by 7,000 troops and thousands of thugs who knew we were coming and liberating that country at a cost of only 23 American dead.
 That's what we bought with the Reagan buildup.
 Was it not worth it?"
 January 1990 column after the invasion of Panama
 "Today's Democrats would never nominate JFK; with his views, he would be dismissed as a 'right-wing clone' of Ronald Reagan."
July 1989 column
 "Less equipped psychologically to 'stay the course' in the brawling arenas of business, commerce, industry and the professions, women are physically unequipped to compete in the worlds of athletics and arms."
November 1983 column
 "There simply never was a national demand nor a proven national need for the Clean Air Act of 1990."
 1990 column
 "What have the vulture capitalists of the leveraged buyout left us, but an endless pile of clippings from Women's Wear Daily of their grinning selves and painted women?"
 February 1989 column
 "The racial hazing of a black cadet at the Citadel is played up big (as it was in the national press); little mention is found, however, of the rapes of white coeds by black criminals."
 January 1988 column
 "Under capitalism, however, it has not been intellectuals, but financiers, merchants, industrialists and businessmen to whom society long looked for leadership and guidance. Thus the historic enmity of the men of words for the men of business. Envy is at the root of the current assault by intellectuals and their auxiliaries against the business community."
 1975 book, "Conservative Votes, Liberal Victories" Quadrangle/New York Times Book Company
 "Mising in the torpor of this politics of consensus is belief, conviction, passion. The day of JFK and Barry Goldwater, of Gene McCarthy and Ronald Reagan, the great partisans, seems over. But this is not the end of ideology; it is a phony peace until new men arrive to give voice and direction to the passions of the age."
 November 1989 column (pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: PANAMA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY CITADEL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY CITADEL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PANAMA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; ELECTION ISSUES; WOMEN; TELEVISION; POLITICAL ADVERTISING CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); WOMEN (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (74%); DESERT STORM (71%); RACE & RACISM (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; HOLMES, STEVEN A JOHN F KENNEDY (92%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



38 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 3; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: A U.N. Refugee Envoy Is Urged for Iraq

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Feb. 29

 BODY:
In a new attempt to increase international pressure on President Saddam Hussein, Britain and France are pushing for the United Nations Security Council to send a special envoy to Iraq to report on the situation of the Kurds and other groups who have accused the Hussein Government of oppressing them, diplomats said today.
Among the goals would be ending an economic blockade that Iraq has imposed on the Kurds, which has left them critically short of food and fuel during the winter, and ending the military pressure on Shiite Muslim groups in southern Iraq who, like the Kurds, rose up against Baghdad after the Persian Gulf war. 
 Other aims would be to keep international attention on the conditions of life inside Iraq, and to encourage opposition to the Baghdad Government, the diplomats said. They discussed the plan a day after the Security Council issued a new warning to Iraq insisting that it destroy weapons of mass destruction and suggesting that there would be "serious consequences" if those arms were not destroyed.
Some Bush Administration officials are said to feel that rapid action by the Security Council on the British-French plan might distract attention from Council efforts to force Iraq to eliminate its weapons of mass destruction. The council issued its warning Friday after the official in charge of destroying these weapons reported that the Iraqi authorities were refusing to accept many instructions.
 
Postwar Diplomacy
 Discussion of the proposal to send an envoy into Iraq has been confined so far to the five permanent Security Council members with a veto on decisions. Russia, one of the five, appears supportive, and diplomats say that if the United States gives its backing, China is likely to go along, too.
Britain and France base their plan on Security Council Resolution 688, adopted in April 1991, which condemned Iraqi treatment of the Kurds, saying this threatened regional peace and security. Resolution 688 was adopted after the Iraqi Army crushed the Kurdish and Shiite uprisings in the gulf war's aftermath, sending hundreds of thousands of Kurdish refugees accross the borders into Turkey and Iran. The United States and its allies then sent armed forces into northern Iraq to establish refugee havens.
Since late last year the Iraqi Army has imposed a tight economic blockade on a large part of the Kurdish region, apparently seeking to force Kurdish leaders to accept Baghdad's plan for regional autonomy. Most Kurdish leaders have rejected this as inadequate.
Latest United Nations estimates say that only about 10 percent of the food this area normally received from the south during the winter is getting through to the people.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Reply From Iraq
 BAGHDAD, Iraq, Feb. 29 (Reuters) -- Iraq asserted today that the insistence by the United Nations that it destroy missile equipment, "like other ones, clearly shows how the United States has turned its tool -- the Security Council -- and its resolutions and statements into cheap political means to achieve imperialist aims."
"Iraq rejects the conclusion included in the statement by the United States and its agents who serve American interests," it added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); GULF STATES (78%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); GULF STATES (78%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; KURDS; SHIITE MOSLEMS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHEMICAL WARFARE; BIOLOGICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ARMIES (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); DESERT STORM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); VETO (78%); RELIGION (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) ; LEWIS, PAUL SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



39 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 22; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Debate;
Bickering Democrats Turn Colorado Encounter Into a Free-for-All

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: DENVER, Feb. 29

 BODY:
Paul E. Tsongas and Bill Clinton clashed in a tense exchange over nuclear power today in a Presidential debate that ended in a free-for-all of accusations aimed primarily at Mr. Tsongas.
Governor Clinton of Arkansas said that as President Mr. Tsongas would build "hundreds more" nuclear power plants in the United States. 
 "That is a lie, that is a lie, that is a lie," retorted the former Massachusetts Senator, who is leading in public opinion polls here three days before the Colorado primary.
"Then just say no," Mr. Clinton responded, daring Mr. Tsongas to rule out the possibility that he would approve more nuclear plants.
Mr. Tsongas would not and protested that the criticism was unreasonable, but Mr. Clinton shot back: "No one can argue with you Paul, you're always perfect."
"I'm not perfect but I'm always honest," Mr. Tsongas said.
Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa quickly joined in the anti-Tsongas chorus, saying, "Paul you may be honest but I think you've been disingenuous with this audience with your answer about nuclear power."
The nuclear power issue could prove powerful in this environmentally conscious state as Mr. Tsongas's Democratic rivals strive to cut into his lead.
Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska stayed out of the nuclear power debate but took issue with the "I'm no Santa Claus" theme that Mr. Tsongas has been using in opposing a middle-class tax cut, which he says would hurt the economy.
"I appreciate the fact that you are not Santa Claus but you're beginning to sound like the Grinch who stole Christmas."
For more than an hour of the 90-minute forum, the rivals sparred over trade and economic policy, but their exchanges were free of the cutting personal tone that has crept into the campaign in recent days.
But just as it appeared the candidates might heed the plea of party leaders to restore civility as the campaign heads into a crucial stretch, the exchanges turned harsh and Mr. Tsongas became the target of a free-for-all.
 
Attempt to Restore Order
 Mr. Tsongas tried to restore order at the end, raising his hand like a Scout leader and asking his rivals to pledge to refrain from any future attacks or negative advertising. No hands went up in agreement, and Mr. Clinton said Mr. Tsongas had started the nastiness with an ad accusing him and Senator Kerrey of wanting to borrow to pay for their proposed middle-class tax cut.
'Put up your hand, put up your hand," Mr. Tsongas pleaded.
"What about your ad, Senator?" Mr. Clinton fired back.
After the debate, Mr. Tsongas renewed his call for a "non-aggression pact" and said the debate had disintegrated "into a campaign no one could be proud of."
The clashes came in the first of three debates this weekend, with two of the showdowns -- today's here and one Sunday evening in Maryland -- in states in which Mr. Tsongas holds a slim lead over Mr. Clinton in polls.
A third forum will be videotaped Sunday morning in Georgia, where Mr. Clinton has a 2-to-1 lead over Mr. Tsongas in recent polls.
The fireworks today came after a spirited but calmer discussion over the economy, trade, abortion rights, the importance of naming women to high-profile government posts and environmental and public land issues of great importance in the Rocky Mountain region.
In the most heated exchange on the economy, Mr. Tsongas accused Mr. Kerrey of adopting a protectionist tone in New Hampshire but dropping it when the campaign moved to Western states dependent on exports.
"You make one argument on the East Coast, bring it with your baggage to the rest of the country," Mr. Tsongas told Mr. Kerrey, daring him to broadcase a protectionist-sounding advertisement that Mr. Kerrey used in New Hampshire.
"It was a lousy ad," a laughing Senator Kerrey said in response. "It didn't work."
"The issue isn't what works," Mr. Tsongas retorted. "It's what you stand for."
Mr. Clinton and Edmund G. Brown, the former California Governor, said Mr. Tsongas's proposed capital gains cut would do little to help laid-off American auto workers. And Mr. Kerrey said that while Mr. Tsongas had proven his knowledge of New England manufacturing, his Senate record indicated the New Englander had little understanding of the economy of the western states.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DENVER (COLO) ; COLORADO UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ATOMIC ENERGY; DEBATING ; PRIMARIES POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); TAX LAW (69%); CHRISTMAS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: KERREY, BOB (SEN); TSONGAS, PAUL E; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); HARKIN, TOM (SEN); BROWN, EDMUND G JR BILL CLINTON (93%); TOM HARKIN (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



40 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Chatanika Journal;
The Theater Is Freezing, But the Show Is Dazzling

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHATANIKA, Alaska

 BODY:
At 3 A.M., a group of Japanese tourists stamped their feet on the hard snow and pointed to the Alaskan sky. It was 35 below zero, and some of the visitors were on their honeymoon.
Without warning, an arc of green and white light appeared overhead -- show time. The light band split into a fork, then rippled over the horizon, the curtain call of another grand display of the aurora borealis, or northern lights, in the bush country north of Fairbanks and close to the Arctic Circle. 
 What is different this year is that the lights, which last for varying lengths of time, have became an international tourist draw. To the surprise of many, Alaskans have figured out a way to sell the sky. Overwhelmingly, the buyers are Japanese. And their numbers are helping this state's economy smooth over the ups and downs of crude-oil prices.
Until a few years ago it was virtually impossible to coax visitors to Alaska in the middle of winter. What, after all, was there to see in the two or three hours of daylight during the darkest months of the season? Going outside requires enough insulation to pass the Anchorage building code. The bears are all hibernating, the moose are hungry and prone to cranky behavior, and the salmon are months away from the first big river run.
There was, as always, the brilliant streaking across the sky of the aurora, the charged solar particles that are drawn by magnetism to the Earth's polar zones. Although no one is ever sure when the lights will appear, any night from October to April is likely to bring a dramatic display. But nobody thought to capitalize on it until two years ago, when a Japanese television crew began broadcasting the northern lights from Alaska to a Tokyo news show. Suddenly, thousands of potential visitors showed up at travel agencies asking about such backwaters as Chatanika, a former mining camp 30 miles northeast of Fairbanks.
"We never paid much attention to it because, what the hell, the northern lights are just up there in the sky, as always," said Connel Murray, the state's director of tourism. "But then our guy in Tokyo told us that there was a big demand for tours. And he said it's a favorite of honeymooners."
To some Japanese, the aurora borealis is the ultimate photographic quarry, a challenge not unlike a big game hunt. To many others, it has a spiritual and a romantic calling.
"Many Japanese believe that if you consumate your marriage under the northern lights, you can expect a long and fruitful life," said Woody Kobayashi, an Anchorage tour operator who specializes in taking groups from Japan to see the lights.
One night recently a group of women waited patiently here inside a glass-covered cabin that the owners call the "aurora dome." When the lights at long last appeared, the women stampeded to the nearby bunkhouse to wake their new husbands.
But there are also groups of single young men and women. They said they came to Alaska in the dead of winter because they had heard it was a good way to meet members of the opposite sex. They paid up to $5,000 for the privilege of spending a week or so at one of the coldest spots on Earth, dressed in what look like moon suits.
Masaaki Notani, a college student from Osaka, rubbed his eyes one morning after a long, sleepless night of waiting for the lights to appear. He was looking forward to his next stop, the more temperate climate of Seattle, 2,000 miles to the south.
"This is very good," he explained in minimal English. "But it is much too cold. So cold it makes you crazy."
While the chill is numbing, there is perhaps no better place on the planet to watch the northern lights than the Alaskan interior north of Fairbanks. The skies are typically cloudless and the aurora is directly overhead, about 60 miles up. Scientists from two Federal agencies have set up a research complex on a nearby mountaintop, from which they have been launching rockets to photograph and study the northern lights.
The dancing aurora, which is never the same from one night to another, is an electrical discharge powered by interactions between the Sun and the Earth. Its glow is that of atoms and molecules in the Earth's upper atmosphere.
More than 20,000 Japanese visited Alaska last year; nearly 25 percent came for the northern lights. On average, the Japanese spend 50 percent more than tourists from the lower 48 states. They are one reason why tourism, which generated a billion dollars in revenue last year, has become the No. 2 industry in Alaska, behind oil. Officials say Alaska was brought to the attention of a world audience in 1989, when the tanker Exxon Valdez spilled 11 million gallons of oil into Prince William Sound. Tourism has grown by huge numbers since then.
Alaskans, in typical fashion, have added two other attractions to their package for Japanese tourists -- shooting and dog mushing. This winter, Steve Howdershell, a dog musher, has taken hundreds of Japanese into the bush on dog-sled rides and to fire rifles at targets.
"They're shocked and horrified by the whole thing," Mr. Howdershell said, speaking of the tourists' reactions to the dogs and guns and, of course, the cold. "But God, they love it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The aurora borealis, or northern lights, have become an international tourist draw attracting many people to Alaska in the middle of winter, an overwhelming number of them Japanese. Two Japanese tourists recently visited the Chena Hot Springs in Alaska in hopes of seeing the lights appear. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
 
Map of Alaska, indicating Chatanika.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (88%); ARCTIC (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); EARTH (77%); 

CITY: FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (90%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHATANIKA (AKASKA); ALASKA UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (88%); ARCTIC (79%); ALASKA, USA (94%); EARTH (77%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (90%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: AURORA BOREALIS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; SPACE TOUR OPERATORS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); TRAVEL AGENTS (62%); MINES & MINING (62%); TRENDS (62%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



41 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 20; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: White House;
Concerned About Buchanan, Bush Makes Final Appeal in Georgia

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Feb. 29

 BODY:
President Bush today began making a final appeal to Georgia Republicans before the state's closely watched primary election, as his advisers expressed new concern that his opponent, Patrick J. Buchanan, may again seize an embarrassing share of the vote.
As Mr. Bush delivered a speech in Dallas early today, an official in his party said campaign strategists now fear that the Georgia election could end in "New Hampshire or worse." 
 Last month's New Hampshire primary, in which the President drew only 53 percent of the Republican vote to Mr. Buchanan's 37 percent, was judged a surprising setback to the White House.
Other officials in Mr. Bush's campaign have said that a showing similar to the New Hampshire tally would signal deep trouble for Mr. Bush, whose re-election bid has been sputtering since it began in December.
 
Attacks Hitting Home
 It is impossible to say whether the latest assessment of the Georgia race is deliberately pessimistic, a common ploy when candidates want to appear on Election Day to have exceeded expectations of their popularity.
The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that the White House believed that Mr. Buchanan's slashing attacks on the President were hitting home with conservative Georgians, and that his television commercials had been especially effective.
Georgia is the first locale outside of New Hampshire where Mr. Bush and Mr. Buchanan have met head to head. Because its economy and population more closely resemble the nation's than New Hampshire's, it has been regarded as a bellwether of Mr. Bush's political fortunes.
Mr. Buchanan apparently has scored in Georgia by broadcasting a stream of accusations that Mr. Bush has broken his word with conservatives on issues like tax increases, Federal financing of supposedly obscene art and civil rights.
As he did in New Hampshire, Mr. Buchanan has repeatedly broadcast Mr. Bush's campaign slogan, "Read my lips: no new taxes," to imply that the President has no strong convictions.
Mr. Bush promised to oppose any income tax increase while campaigning for the White House in 1988, but agreed in 1990 to accept an increase in the top personal income-tax rate as part of an agreement with Congress to cap Federal spending.
Mr. Bush lately has conceded that the economy has hurt his popularity, but blames Mr. Buchanan and his Democratic rivals for making matters seem worse than they are.
"I have to bear my share of responsibility" for economic problems, he said in Houston on Friday. But he said that "things are beginning to move," and that he believed Americans were tired of the attacks on his policies from Mr. Buchanan and the Democrats.
"I have to do certain things that the attackers don't have to do," he said. "One of them is be President. And I think I'll be there another four or five years."
What is indisputable is that Mr. Bush's strategists have become increasingly worried about Georgia after expressing confidence only two weeks ago that Mr. Bush would crush his insurgent opponent.
Midway through the President's current six-day swing through the West and South, aides changed Mr. Bush's Georgia itinerary to add a stop in Savannah to his existing schedule of Atlanta events.
 
Invoking Reagan's Name
 Both Mr. Bush and Vice President Dan Quayle have appealed with mounting urgency for supporters to stand with the Republican coalition that elected Ronald Reagan in 1980 and Mr. Bush in 1988.
On Friday, a senior official of Mr. Bush's campaign in Washington had suggested that Georgia is an anomaly in the South, and that Mr. Buchanan might do reasonably well here while Mr. Bush would sweep virtually all the rest of the region's primaries.
The Georgia primary is held a week before the round of so-called Super Tuesday elections, which include five Southern and two border states.
Speaking in Dallas this morning, Mr. Bush urged a national group of building contractors to support him during economic hard times as they supported President Reagan in the steep recession of 1982.
In a curiously phrased series of remarks, the President reminded the builders that he was helping them -- with a $150 billion-road-building bill -- and then suggested that last year's Persian Gulf war was part of his economic recovery plan as well.
Saying he had "good news for the American economy on the first anniversary of the liberation of Kuwait," Mr. Bush reported that American companies have been awarded half of all contracts to repair the ravages wreaked there by Iraqi occupation and allied bombing. That $5 billion in reconstruction business, he said, had created tens of thousands of new jobs.
"This good news proves that my long range program to create jobs by pushing exports is working," Mr. Bush said. "And we're going to keep putting Americans to work by opening new markets for American goods around the world."
In Atlanta today, Georgia Republican leaders at a state party convention worked to deflate Mr. Buchanan's portrayal of Mr. Bush as a flip-flopping politician, even as they acknowledged that the President did not always parrot the conservative credo.
Representative Newt Gingrich, a staunch conservative who backs Mr. Bush, told the crowd that Republicans were having nothing more than "a family fight," and that they should remember to make up in time to challenge the Democrats in November.
As for Mr. Bush, he said, the President is a man "who may not always be right, but always has integrity."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush greeting supporters after his arrival in Dallas yesterday morning to deliver a speech there before heading for Georgia. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GEORGIA UNITED STATES (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); INCOME TAX (66%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



42 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1906 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Profile;
Can Morality Be a Campaign Issue? Tsongas Has Trouble Not Making It One

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DENVER, Feb. 29

 BODY:
St. Paul is fiddling with his halo.
Paul E. Tsongas, christened with his saintly nickname by a former political rival in Massachusetts, says he struggles not to lay claim to all the moral high ground in the Presidential campaign. But some days it is hard. 
 "I try not to couch things in that context," Mr. Tsongas said on a ride through Beverly Hills, Calif., one recent day when asked if he worried about the political sin of moral vanity. "I could have accused George Bush of having been generationally immoral, but I call him generationally irresponsible."
But references to morality keep creeping back into his conversation, and he often returns to his fight with cancer to explain his ambition, his fatalism, his existentialism and his spirtuality, and to stress that the key to this campaign will be "those moments when you can really look into a human being and get a glimpse of that inner self."
 
Steely and Assured
 Beyond all the self-deprecating jokes about his lack of charisma and the admission that his campaign has not yet ignited nationally because the public is still craving what he calls "a Mario Cuomo personality," the 51-year-old Mr. Tsongas is a steely and assured candidate.
Beyond all the talk about a death penalty for poll takers and media consultants, beyond the kidding about his new red ties and shoulder pads, beyond the amateurish style of his campaign organization, the "unpackaged" candidate is packaging himself very shrewdly for a public that is fed up with politics as usual.
This week, Mr. Tsongas firmly established his place as the class of '92 goody-goody when he called Democratic Party chairman, Ronald H. Brown, to ask him to make all the candidates agree to a "nonaggression pact" that would put a moratorium on negative campaigning.
"I just want to put the burden on party officials to exercise their responsibility," he said primly as he campaigned in Los Angeles and Denver this weekend.
 
Less Saintly With Clinton
 But politics being politics, Mr. Tsongas announced at the same time that he had "very reluctantly" authorized his staff to put on what he termed "counterpunch" commercials. The first, now on the air, says that the other contenders are attacking Mr. Tsongas only because he is ahead in some primary polls. The second attacks Mr. Clinton's credibility on the gas-tax and pay-raise issues.
"I have to demonstrate to people that I know how to fight back," Mr. Tsongas said.
Although Senator Kerrey of Nebraska has been attacking Mr. Clinton's patriotism, Mr. Tsongas excused that on the basis of Mr. Kerrey's experience of getting badly wounded in Vietnam. But about Mr. Clinton's attacks, he sounds betrayed: "Through all Bill Clinton's troubles, I never said a word. Now he's using a kind of kamikaze approach. If he cannot get nominated, he will try to take everybody else down with him."
Only a couple of weeks ago, Mr. Tsongas was happily explaining to a group of friends at a fund-raising event at his doctor's house in Concord, Mass., that one of the best things about the campaign was getting to be good friends with Mr. Clinton.
But Mr. Tsongas now calls that friendship "a pretense."
The two erupted in argument at the candidates' debate in here tonight, where all the other candidates tried to paint Mr. Tsongas as smug. Mr. Clinton said at one point: "No one can argue with you, Paul. You're always perfect."
Mr. Tsongas snapped back, "I'm not perfect, but I'm honest."
When Mr. Tsongas was asked in an interview if he would support Mr. Clinton if he is the nominee, his mouth pursed. The reserved and deadpan candidate often signals his feelings, both humorous and starchy, with the trademark mouth twitches that precede his remarks.
"I would support the nominee," he said coldly as he rode from a breakfast fund- raising event in Beverly Hills to an appearance on a local television show in Burbank. "But at some point a person's basic core should give you confidence. I understand what it means to feel you're not doing as well as you expect. But ultimately you have to sit down and figure out who you are."
Mr. Tsongas says three actions reveal that Mr. Clinton lacks the core to be President. He says that Mr. Clinton's aide, James Carville, fed Gov. Zell Miller of Georgia misleading information on the former Senator's position on the death penalty, causing Mr. Miller to say that Mr. Tsongas opposed the death penalty when he favors it for drug kingpins and killers of police officers; he said that Mr. Clinton attacked him unfairly when he called him a coldblooded technocrat who believed in trickle-down economics, and he said that Mr. Clinton's outburst about the Rev. Jesse Jackson -- remarks picked up on an open microphone when Mr. Clinton mistakenly thought that Mr. Jackson was endorsing Senator Tom Harkin -- showed that his judgment is flawed under stress.
"I would not be capable of that, to decide whether someone is good or bad depending on whether they endorse you or not," Mr. Tsongas said. "That is a remarkably self-centered view of that person. They go from an angel to a devil depending on whether they endorse you."
Mr. Tsongas had an outburst of his own at Dartmouth University a few weeks ago, when a young man asked him about the dangers of radiation at a nuclear plant where he serves on the board, and Mr. Tsongas replied petulantly that he did not need to be told anything on the subject of cancer.
Why, Mr. Tsongas was asked, was Mr. Clinton's outburst any different?
"I was challenged on cancer and I responded back," he replied. "I did not call into question the integrity or the morality of another person. That's the difference."
Mr. Tsongas, who gets tetchy when his ideas are challenged, was asked whether he was being a bit disingenuous about Mr. Clinton. After all, calling someone coldblooded is tame compared with what has been said in the current Republican Presidential campaign, and Mr. Tsongas has been generically assailing all his rivals as panderers who would offer tax breaks by borrowing money from the nation's children. Mr. Clinton has complained that Mr. Tsongas has distorted his record by not explaining in his advertisements that he would pay for his middle class tax cut and child care tax credits with a higher tax on the rich.
"I've been in a lot of bloody battles," Mr. Tsongas replied. "There's nothing at a Presidential level that I have not experienced in the Lowell City Council. But the fact is, there is a higher standard that you would try to impose on a Presidential race."
What does Mr. Kerrey's abrupt about-face, from saying in New Hampshire that Mr. Clinton should not be criticized for avoiding military service during the Vietnam War to saying in Georgia that Mr. Clinton would be carved open like a peanut for finessing the draft, tell the public about his core?
"I was thinking a lot about that yesterday on the plane," Mr. Tsongas said. "And I was imagining lying in that hospital bed for nine months and watching this unfold and thinking how would I feel. I must say that it's like when I was challenged at Dartmouth about cancer. It just hit a vein. And so, when I put myself in Kerrey's shoes, I'm not sure I would react any differently."
 
The Eyes of a Beagle
 In Time magazine in 1988, Lance Morrow wrote that to see Michael S. Dukakis was to see a man with all his vectors pointing down. Mr. Tsongas has the sad hazel eyes of a beagle and a mouth that turns down at the corners, but he is by no means as robotic and dour as Mr. Dukakis. He leavens his tough economic message with jokes, and his face often brightens with a dimpled smile.
Instead of poring over papers, as Mr. Dukakis invariably did, Mr. Tsongas spends most of his time on the plane napping, and even then he concedes that he gets tired at the pace, which is still slower than that of other candidates.
Unlike Mr. Dukakis, Mr. Tsongas has a gentle, direct gaze that attracts voters. At rallies in Denver and Seattle, it took him 20 minutes to work his way through the crowd, as he signed copies of his economic book or any other handy piece of paper.
Mr. Tsongas is not like George McGovern, of whom people joked that when he came into a room it seemed as if someone had left. But his presence is so quiet that, at a rally at Manuel's Tavern in Atlanta, voters eagerly waiting to hear the candidate shooed him away when he tried to reach the microphone.
Mr. Tsongas never makes an entrance; camera operators and voters will often not know he has taken his place for several moments after he is there, or even until he is grasping their hand, or, in the case of one cameraman, waving in his face, saying: "I'm over here! Wake up!" But once he is in place, his technique is reminiscent of that of Daisy Buchanan in "The Great Gatsby," who used to speak in a soft voice so people would need to lean closer to hear her. He stands very still and speaks so softly that you are never sure he will make it to the end of the sentence, and those listening lean in to him.
Morgan Fairchild, the actress who attended a breakfast fund-raising event for Mr. Tsongas at the Beverly Hills Hotel on Friday, echoed the anti-slick mood gripping the country: "I photograph real well and I can stand up and make a great speech, but it doesn't mean I should be President. We need someone who knows how to run the country, not someone who looks cute."
Deborah Iddins, 38, a computer programmer from Island City, Wash., came to a crowded rally in downtown Seattle on Thursday and liked what she saw.
"When I saw him in the first Democratic debates, I was kind of turned off," she recalled. "He did not look very healthy. He looked kind of peaked. But I read his economic book and I changed my mind. I think, in the past, we judged too much on appearance and presence and we were really way off sometimes. People can fool you. But this fellow's a man of ideas and you can hold onto ideas more than presentation."
Now, she said, she likes that Mr. Tsongas has had cancer. "It makes him fallible in some way so that you fell you can relate to him," she said. "I respect him. He has a lot of courage and he's had to struggle with his life, like the rest of us have."
 
Concentrating on Cancer
 Far from avoiding the subject that once seemed destined to doom his bid before he even got started, Mr. Tsongas refers often to his illness, presenting it as the crucible that transformed him into someone who would make a great President, and who would also accept defeat gracefully.
"The one thing about the cancer experience is, I don't get bothered by things I have no control over," he said. "In the larger scheme of things, this is all very transitory."
Mr. Tsongas says he gets angry now only when his aides do not have enough copies of his 85-page economic booklet to pass out to the crowd. And he gets sad only when he stays away from his three daughters for more than three days at a time.
"When I have to go without seeing them, it's almost like at the hospital," he said referring to his six-week stay in isolation in room 1220 at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institution in Boston, after his drastic and experimental treatment for lymphoma. "When they would come and they would look through that window at me, it was excruciating. I was better off not seeing them.
"So what I've done in these last few days is not think about them, but keep the focus on Bill Clinton."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (54%); 

PERSON: TSONGAS, PAUL E; DOWD, MAUREEN; FAIRCHILD, MORGAN BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



43 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Violence Takes Over a Colombian City

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BARRANCABERMEJA, Colombia

 BODY:
Human rights monitors say this sweltering central Colombian city has become an alarming focal point of violence, a place where leftist rebels, common criminals, paramilitary groups, the military and the police are killing people at an ever-increasing rate.
The monitors and residents say that many of the victims are innocent peasants indiscriminately slain by army and police forces in anti-insurgency operations. 
 This year alone, 84 homicides have been registered in the city of 156,000, a rate that eclipses last year's record-breaking average of more than a slaying a day and makes this one of the most violent places in the country.
 
Deadlier Than Washington
 The rate of killing -- 250 per 100,000 people in 1991 -- is more than three times that of Washington, which has the highest homicide rate in the United States. Washington's rate was 77.8 homicides per 100,000 people in 1990, the most recent year for which United States figures are available.
"The violence is exceeding all the limits," said an official in the local Attorney General's office in Barrancabermeja, who conceded that state forces are involved in at least some of it. "We're in a pressure cooker."
Anxiety is clearly evident among residents, who nervously check crowds when they go out in public and drop their voices before speculating on who is planning to kill whom. At a local deli, a bullet-riddled refrigerator is lingering evidence of the killing of a customer last year as he ordered lunch.
Local human rights advocates are particularly vulnerable as they work to protect potential victims and bring the killers to account.
Blanca Valero de Duran, a secretary in the office of a regional human rights group here, was gunned down by unidentified men as she left work the evening of Jan. 29.
The slaying came the day after an article written by her boss, Jorge Gomez Lizarazo, was published on the Op-Ed Page of The New York Times. In it, he strongly criticized Government forces for what he called widespread human rights abuses in the region. The local radio network broadcast excerpts from the article the same day.
 
Not Deterred by 'Message'
 "The death was clearly a message to try and keep us quiet," said Mr. Gomez, the breeze from a fan stirring the stacks of photographs of slaying and torture victims that cover his desk in his muggy second-floor office. "But we are going to keep working to denounce these abuses."
The only violent element missing here is Colombia's drug traffickers, who operate farther outside the city, though a sharp drop in the nation's drug-related violence has been reported in recent months.
Barrancabermeja (pronounced bahr-ahn-cah-ber-MEH-ha) a port city on the Magdalena River some 150 miles north of Bogota, has traditionally been a domain of leftist rebels belonging to the National Liberation Army and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia.
Their movements gathered support as the city's working classes toiled to exploit the area's rich natural resources of oil, coal and coffee but were denied the economic benefits. Drinking water, roads, sewers and hospitals are woefully inadequate in most of the neighborhoods.
In the past year, rebel attacks have increased as the two guerrilla groups try to strengthen their hand during peace talks with the Government held in Caracas, Venezuela. Though several other rebel groups have disarmed in recent years, the Caracas negotiations with the two remaining groups have been limping along since June. The talks are to resume in March after a nearly three-month recess.
 
Cycle of Violence
 Each time the guerrillas make a show of force, like bombing electrical pylons near Barrancabermeja, the state answers by sending in more security forces.
"Every time the military comes in, the rate of violence goes up," said Mr. Gomez. He said that over the past decade thousands of people have moved into the city from rural areas to escape the violence, increasing social strains within Barrancabermeja.
Mr. Gomez said that in their zeal to rout the left, the state forces view every peasant and urban worker as a guerrilla supporter who should be eliminated.
"The bottom line is that the military and police are among the worst offenders -- if not the worst -- of certain human rights abuses, such as summary executions, torture and disappearances," said Chuck Call, associate with the Washington Office on Latin America, a nongovernmental human rights organization.
Attesting to that charge is a 39-year-old mother of nine, too terrified to give her name. She says her husband, a manual laborer, was abducted, tortured and slain with three of his coworkers in January 1991.
Witnesses say the four men were killed by army soldiers, who dressed the bodies in guerrilla fatigues and later reported that four "rebels" had died in battle. The wife denies that her husband was ever involved with leftist radicals and scoffs at the army's allegations of combat.
"I'm not a fool," she says. "People who die in battle don't show signs of torture."
Although she has tried to pursue the case, she worries that if she presses too hard her children will lose their mother as well.
Fear is one of the main reasons that conviction rates in Barrancabermeja, as in all of Colombia, are so low, according to Government officials and human rights workers. There were 391 slayings in 1991, but only 11 people sit in jail accused of murder.
"People won't cooperate with the investigations because they are afraid," said the President's human rights adviser, Jorge Orlando Melo, in his Bogota office. "And the officials can't form cases without the cooperation of the people."
 
Changes in Judicial System
 But Colombia has made some significant changes aimed at improving the judicial system. The 1991 Constitution created a national public prosecutor to build better cases against all criminals, including those accused of human rights abuses. In addition, a public defender's office, also dictated by the new Constitution, is charged with overseeing processes against human rights violators.
Last summer, President Cesar Gaviria Trujillo appointed Colombia's first civilian Defense Minister, Rafael Pardo Rueda, who has announced his commitment to cleaning up security forces.
Even with the deterrent of fear, the Attorney General's report cites a large number of complaints against state forces between January 1990 and April 1991: more than 550 alleged killings, 664 cases of torture and 616 disappearances nationwide.
Nor are guerrillas free from accusations of harm to innocents. Recently, for example, two children died when they stepped on one of the guerrillas' land mines in Carmen, 35 miles southeast of Barrancabermeja.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Over the last decade, thousands of people have moved into the city of Barrancabermeja, Colombia, from rural areas to escape the violence of criminals, rebels and the military. A boy stood outside his family's shack on the outskirts of Barrancabermeja, where many peasants have sought refuge. (Steven Gutkin for The New York Times)
; Map of Colombia, indicating Barrancabermeja.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA; BARRANCABERMEJA (COLOMBIA) COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLICE; CRIME AND CRIMINALS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); CIVIL WAR (79%); TORTURE (79%); SHOOTINGS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ARMIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (76%); LAWYERS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); WRITERS (62%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



44 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Despite Agreement, Haitians Express Pessimism

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Feb. 29

 BODY:
For a long, uneasy moment Friday afternoon, even as workers still labored under a punishing sun to nail together carnival reviewing stands, many who milled around to watch wondered if there really could be a celebration of this holiday in Haiti this year.
Many in the small crowd grumbled that the traditional five-day pre-Lenten festival bore little resemblance to a celebration. Policemen carrying machine guns were mounted atop the two floats emblazoned in glitter with the word "Unity," and dozens of other policemen and soldiers sternly herded the revelers assembled around the Champs de Mars. 
 Instead, as one clump of young students said, constantly moving to avoid any eavesdroppers, Carnival has come to resemble the predicament of their country since an army coup overthrew its first elected Government and its President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, in September.
"What you have here is a bunch of soldiers working with some greedy politicians," a student said. "For people like this, any means necessary are appropriate for keeping us in check."
 
Devils and Demons
 When a sound truck appeared blaring rhythmic carnival hits, even these youths joined in the cavorting of costumed devils and masked demons. But for many in Haiti, Carnival, a traditional occasion to exorcise one's worries, began instead as a solemn moment of stock-taking and fear that after five months of political violence and economic hardship, Haiti has again failed to break out of a centuries-old cycle of betrayal and self-destruction.
Politicians returning from talks in Washington on Tuesday were praising their negotiations, which have apparently resulted in an internationally supported solution to the country's crisis that seemed to suspend the people's choice of a leader. But many Haitians predicted that the country's day of reckoning had merely been postponed.
For some of these people, there was a sense of forlorn confusion that President Aristide could have committed so grave an error as to sign an agreement under the auspices of the Organization of American States that offered no punishment for the killing of hundreds during the coup.
Under the agreement, Father Aristide endorsed the selection of a political rival as prime minister, supported a lifting of the international embargo on Haiti and agreed to an amnesty for all those involved in the coup.
In exchange, the deposed President obtained the recognition of his presidency by the National Assembly. The choice for prime minister, Rene Theodore, must consult with Father Aristide every 15 days, "if possible," and must work to "create the conditions" for Father Aristide's return.
 
Vauge Commitment to Return
 What was worse, many said, was that the agreement included only the vaguest commitment to bringing President Aristide back to Haiti.
"This country must go forward, but not by pardoning the people who are responsible for the death of so many innocents," said a man on a downtown street Friday. "People are not happy about this agreement, but what do you want? In Haiti no one asks the people anything."
The sense of catastrophe was openly expressed by Father Aristide's closest partisans as well. "It is revolting that we should end up with a pseudo-solution that resolves absolutely nothing and only contributes definitively to the political destruction of Aristide," said the weekly Haiti-Progres, which is published by an ambassador and adviser of the deposed President.
But while some spoke in terms of resignation and chagrin, others were warning that Haiti had merely taken a pause from its perennial conflict.
 
Accord Called Worthless
 "That agreement is nothing but a piece of paper, and with people like the ones in charge here, you already know that it is worthless," said a woman in her late 20's who works at the government-owned telephone company, referring to the committment of the army and legislature to work for Father Aristide's return.
"The people are already beginning to realize that they will have to assume their own responsibilities," the woman said. "We can expect no help from the outside. I am doing whatever I can to organize. If everyone does his bit, maybe we can get our government back."
Aware of such sentiments, the soldiers and policemen who organized this year's Carnival in place of the civilians who are nominally in charge of the country took no chance to allow their unpopularity become a theme. Even musical groups were screened for the political content of their songs.
Fresh from having won a Grammy Award in the United States, one Haitian group, Boukman Eksperyans, was barred from the Carnival. Although no official reason was given, people have reportedly been arrested in the streets here for singing its Carnival song that seemingly warns the army leadership, "If you kill, you will run into problems at a dangerous crossroads."
 
'Low-Intensity Warfare'
 "Every night in my area you can hear gunfire," said Renaud Bernadin, a minister in the Aristide Government who has remained in hiding since the September coup. "These are all facets of the army's psychological pressure. Haiti is still engaged in low-intensity warfare, and the first objective is to keep the people from expressing themselves."
In the past, Carnival was one of the rare occasions for rich and poor to come together in Haiti, but sensing the latent tension, this year many wealthy Haitians said they would instead travel to Miami or leave the city.
For many of these people too, the mood of celebration over having removed a populist leader was dampened by the severe damage a four month embargo had wrought on the economy and the knowledge that the political violence had deepened Haiti's explosive class divisions.
"There is a problem with the elite in Haiti," a wealthy businesswoman said over lunch in a mountainside restaurant overlooking the sprawling capital. "We keep reliving the same things over and over. Everyone knows the script, but the story never changes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: For many in Haiti, Carnival, a traditional occasion to exorcise one's worries, began instead as a moment of solemn stock-taking and fear after five months of political violence and economic hardship. A group of soldiers watched the opening celebration of Carnival on Friday in Port-au-Prince, over the heads of young spectators. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

SUBJECT: MARDI GRAS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EMBARGOES POLITICS (90%); MARDI GRAS (90%); COUPS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); FESTIVALS (78%); EASTER SEASON (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); AMNESTY (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); THEODORE, RENE JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (70%); SIR GEORGE YOUNG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



45 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 30; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Political Talk

BYLINE: By Sam Howe Verhovek

 BODY:

Tuneup for the Real Thing?
Picture this: A deadlocked convention, a jammed meeting hall, hundreds of delegates and supporters clamoring for Tsongas, Clinton or Kerrey. No one knows who the nominee will be. And then, a moment of high drama. Up to the microphone, to deliver the keynote address, strides Mario M. Cuomo. 
 This is all scheduled to happen -- this coming weekend, in fact. Governor Cuomo has agreed to be the keynote speaker on Saturday at a mock Democratic convention held by students at Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Va.
The convention has been a quadrennial tradition at the school since 1908. It is always held for the party that does not control the White House, and it has an impressive record in forecasting the name of the party's actual nominee. Since 1952 the students have correctly pre-staged the real event for every single convention except 1972, when delegates selected Edward M. Kennedy rather than the eventual nominee, George McGovern.
So one big question is whether Mr. Cuomo might just wow his student audience into giving him the nomination.
"Yes, on the second ballot, absolutely it's possible that will happen," said John Donaldson, a senior who is majoring in history at the school and who is a coordinator of the event.
The students' voting is based on their research of likely voting patterns in each of the 50 states. But Mr. Donaldson said he believed that the convention could well be deadlocked among the current crop of declared candidates. The delegates could then turn to Mr. Cuomo, "just like they might do in New York City," where the convention will be held in July,Mr. Donaldson said.
Another question is just why Mr. Cuomo, whose national prominence skyrocketed after he delivered the keynote speech to the Democratic convention in San Francisco in 1984, chose to deliver this particular keynote.
It comes just three days before a string of "Super Tuesday" primaries in the South, so could a student stampede to Cuomo be a hint to voters that he's angling for a repetition in July? Or is he wistful for the glory days of 1984? Or is he just doing it for the money? (He will receive a fee for his speech, though both his office and the student coordinators declined to reveal the amount.)
Past speakers at the event have included Harry S. Truman, Richard M. Nixon, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, though none ever won the students' nomination in the same year he spoke. Asked whether Mr. Cuomo was hoping to be the Democratic nominee -- at the mock convention, that is -- his spokeswoman, Anne W. Crowley, said, "No comment." Meanwhile, it's on to Lexington, and students there said the suspense was building.
 
Colleague and Kid Brother
 Politics may make strange bedfellows, but Nick Spano's little brother will just have to sleep on the couch.
Michael J. Spano, 27 years old, was sworn in as a state Assemblyman last week, filling the spot left vacant by the new Mayor of Yonkers, Terence M. Zaleski. He joined with his brother, State Senator Nicholas A. Spano, 38, as the first pair of siblings in several decades to serve together in the Legislature.
The younger Mr. Spano could now be considered a political big shot back home, but a kid brother will always be a kid brother. So not only is he camping out on the couch of the Albany apartment that Nicholas Spano shares with Assemblyman Gregory P. Young of Mount Vernon, but he is already complaining that he has been put to work.
"He made me take out the garbage, and I have to do the cooking," said Michael Spano. "He keeps throwing more jobs at me." Still, he quickly added, he is used to it: there are no less than 16 Spano siblings, 8 boys and 8 girls, of which Nicholas is the oldest. "Our father said it kind of had to be like the Marines growing up in our house," explained Michael, the fourth boy and eighth child in line. "You always had to answer to the older person."
A far more ticklish question could arise this fall, since there is a slight chance that Michael Spano, a Republican, could find his district fused with that of Mr. Young, a Democrat. In this case, it appears that blood is far thicker than a shared apartment lease. Nicholas Spano, also a Republican, said that he liked Mr. Young and all but that he would clearly have to support his brother.
Mr. Young laughingly berated Michael Spano for "acting like a baby" when told about his garbage complaint. As for the prospect of campaigning against his roommate, Mr. Young paused a moment and said, "If it happens, the only fair solution will be for Nick and Mike to move out and leave me the apartment."
 
Mrazek on TV on Crime
 Representative Bob Mrazek of Long Island started out his United States Senate campaign as a longshot. But he has picked up some steam in recent weeks by winning some straw-poll "beauty contests" among upstate Democratic leaders and by reporting that he had $850,000 in cash on hand at the end of the year, more than any other Democratic candidate.
Now Mr. Mrazek is about to begin his first television blitz, including a tough-on-crime commercial to be shown in New York City that is apparently intended to draw a distinction between him and his four opponents for the nomination, all of whom are considered more liberal than he.
"There is a growing army of violent young men on our streets," a solemn Mr. Mrazek intones in the commercial. "They can't read or write. All of them headed in the wrong direction."
Mr. Mrazek proposes taking young criminals off the streets and giving them a "second chance" with motivational training and education programs that he would set up on abandoned Army bases. But while he describes this as a humane approach, he will have to contend with a charge from at least one of his opponents, the Rev. Al Sharpton, that the program is an attempt to "isolate" young blacks and to appeal to racist views.
Mrazek aides dismiss the assertion as absurd. "We understand that some people will politicize the proposal, but to put this in a racial context is to miss the point completely," said Brian Lunde, a campaign consultant. "This is a program to help people, not divide them."
In another commercial, to be broadcast on Long Island and in the Rochester and Buffalo areas, Mr. Mrazek tells viewers that South Korea "now has one of the strongest economies in the world" and ought to pay the United States to have American troops stationed there. "We need the money here," he says.
A third commercial, which will play throughout the New York City area and in western New York, is more general and presents Mr. Mrazek as a down-to-earth figure who can "change your life" if voters make a "leap of faith" and elect him to the Senate. The Mrazek campaign plans to spend about $400,000 for the commercials, mainly on CNN, Headline News, ESPN and other non-network stations on cable-television systems.
 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "THE AD CAMPAIGN"
 
Mrazek: Tough Words On Street Crime
 
SCRIPT: (Bob Mrazek speaking:) Before you get on the subway, do you put mug money in your pocket, or take your wedding band off?
 I want to change that.
 There is a growing army of violent young men on our streets. They can't read or write. All of them headed in the wrong direction. Let's get this new army off our streets and into those empty bases the old army doesn't need anymore. Teach the 3 R's -- reading, writing and respect. I call it Lifesaver. They get a second chance. We don't become their victims.
 (Announcer:) Bob Mrazek. A different kind of Senator. Paid for by People for Mrazek.
 
ON THE SCREEN: Footage of Mr. Mrazek, in suit and tie, speaking directly into the camera, reading the script. There are no other visuals except for a brief "Mrazek/ Senator" sign that accompanies the announcer's voice at the end. (30-second commercial).
 
SCORECARD: Mr. Mrazek's stark imagery of predatory young gangs, leavened by his vow to give violent youths a "second chance" through a military-style training program, seems to be an attempt to show that he is tough-minded on crime but willing to explore compassionate solutions to the problem. But this may be a delicate balance: one of his opponents, the Rev. Al Sharpton, has already suggested that the proposal has a racist tinge and accused Mr. Mrazek of seeking to "isolate" young blacks in "concentration camps." Whatever image the ad suggests is, of course, up to the voter -- it contains no mention of race.
 
ACCURACY: Violent subway crimes actually declined by 15 percent in New York City last year, to the lowest level since 1988, the transit police reported recently. Still, with a fatal shooting on the B train just last Thursday and a number of other highly publicized crimes both below and above ground in recent months, it is obvious that Mr. Mrazek is tapping into an issue of deep concern to New Yorkers. His "Lifesaver" program would use surplus military bases to provide education and "motivational training" for high-school dropouts both with and without criminal records. But details are sketchy, and Mr. Mrazek has never formally proposed the idea during his nine-year tenure in Congress.
 
Photo: Bob Mrazck.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (50%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; ADVERTISING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; MRAZEK, ROBERT J (REPR) BILL CLINTON (78%); AL SHARPTON (59%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); TED KENNEDY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



46 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Parties Agree on a Deal for Quebec

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Feb. 29

 BODY:
Canada's three major political parties struck a last-minute deal late Friday on constitutional reforms aimed at keeping the French-speaking province of Quebec from declaring independence.
The proposals, hammered out by a parliamentary committee, call for decentralization of federal powers, an elected Senate and special recognition of Quebec as a distinct society. 
 They also establish the right of self-government for Canada's native peoples.
"It is a substantial package and an unequivocal offer by the three national parties to try to accommodate Quebec's legitimate aspirations," said Andre Ouellet, the Liberal Party's spokesman on constitutional affairs. The governing Conservatives and the New Democratic Party also took part in the talks.
Quebec, Canada's second most populous province, has threatened to break away from the confederation unless it obtains increased rights to manage its economy and culture.
The French-speaking province is scheduled to hold a referendum on independence in October.
The reform process begun by the Conservative Government in September seeks to keep the nation from falling apart by distributing power to the provinces.
"This document sets a new direction for the country by pointing to a new kind of cooperation between federal and provincial governments," said Dorothy Dobbie, the commitee's Conservative co-chairwoman.
The recommendations, to be considered by provincial premiers next month, clearly recognize Quebec's jurisdiction over its culture and regional development.
The proposals would allow Quebec to decide on financing for museums, cultural foundations, broadcasting and the publishing, sound recording and film industries.
Western Canadian provinces that opposed special treatment for Quebec will be offered the same regional powers and improved representation in the Senate.
An elected Senate was a major issue for the west, which has long complained that it finances Canada without having a say in federal government.
A previous pact, known as the Meech Lake accord, collapsed two years ago after English-speaking provinces withdrew their support at the last minute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (97%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; CONSTITUTIONS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; ESKIMOS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REFERENDUMS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



47 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 39; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Votes in Congress

 BODY:
Tally Last Week in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York
Senate
1. China Trade: Vote on passage of a bill that would impose stringent conditions on the renewal of China's favorable trade status with the United States in June. Approved 59 to 39, Feb. 25.
2. Line-Item Veto: Vote to give President Bush line-item veto authority to delete Federal projects from spending bills passed by Congress. Rejected 54 to 44, Feb. 27.

	1	3	 	 	 	Connecticut	 	 	Dodd (D) . . .	Y	N	Lieberman (D) . . .	Y	N	 	 	 	New Jersey	 	 	Bradley (D) . . .	Y	N	Lautenberg (D) . . .	Y	N	 	 	 	New York	 	 	D'Amato (R) . . . 	 	 	Moynihan (D) . . .	Y	N	
 
House
1. Taxes: Vote on President Bush's proposal featuring a cut in taxes on capital gains that he said would do much to stimulate the economy. Rejected 264 to 166, Feb. 27.
2. Taxes: Vote on a Democratic-sponsored proposal emphasizing a tax credit of up to $400 a year for working couples. Approved 221 to 209, Feb. 27.
3. Haitian Refugees: Passage of a bill that would impose a six-month moratorium on repatriation of Haitians who fled before Feb. 5. Approved 217 to 165, Feb. 27.

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

 
KEY: Y Yea; N Nay; (A) Absent or did not vote; (P) Present.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); HAITI (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CHINA; UNITED STATES ; HAITI UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); HAITI (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) ; TAX CREDITS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); REFUGEES (72%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ROSA DELAURO (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



48 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 11; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: Perez de Cuellar Is Named to Policy Group

 BODY:
Javier Perez de Cuellar, who retired as Secretary General of the United Nations at the end of last year, has been named co-chairman of the Inter-American Dialogue, an independent public policy group for leaders in the Western Hemisphere.
Mr. Perez de Cuellar, whose appointment becomes effective today, will share the chairmanship of the organization with Sol M. Linowitz, a former mediator in the Middle East and former chairman of the Xerox Corporation. 
 The Inter-American Dialogue, whose members include former heads of government, business leaders and scholars, has traditionally had two co-chairmen, one from the United States and the other from Latin America.
Mr. Perez de Cuellar succeeds Daniel Oduber Quiros, who was President of Costa Rica from 1974 to 1978.
Richard E. Feinberg, president of the Inter-American Dialogue, said in an interview Thursday that the former Secretary General, a Peruvian, would be actively involved in a new project on "redefining sovereignty."
The project will consider the increasingly active roles of international organizations, nongovernmental groups and national Governments in promoting economic integration and reducing social inequities in the region, a new trend in an area where national sovereignties were once jealously guarded, Mr. Feinberg said.
The changing attitudes toward sovereignty will be a topic at a major meeting of the Inter-American Dialogue in April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); COSTA RICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DIALOGUE XEROX CORP (72%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DIALOGUE UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); COSTA RICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES PUBLIC POLICY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TRENDS (66%); 

PERSON: PEREZ DE CUELLAR, JAVIER JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR (94%); DANIEL ODUBER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



49 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Tax Battle in California Reaches Supreme Court

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 29

 BODY:
From her modest bungalow set back behind a lawn with a sycamore tree here, Stephanie Nordlinger is leading the counter-revolution against the great California tax revolt.
In 1978, California voters ignited a national anti-tax fever by passing a landslide amendment to the state Constitution known as Proposition 13. The immediate result was to halt the rapid tax increases that were driving some Californians out of their houses. But a long-term consequence has been enormous disparities between taxes paid by longtime residents and new buyers like Ms. Nordlinger, who say they are shouldering a tax burden that is unfair and unconstitutional. 
 Ms. Nordlinger, a lawyer, has now managed to take the issue to the United States Supreme Court after being rebuffed by state courts. Her lawyers asked the Court on Tuesday to throw out the law, in part on the ground that it violated the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment because some California homeowners pay taxes as much as 17 times higher than neighbors who bought their houses before 1978.
A ruling is expected by spring. Tax experts around the nation are following the case, Nordlinger v. Hahn, for clues about how the Court views inequities in tax burdens. Courts in some states have overturned school-financing formulas because of inequities between rich and poor districts, but the Supreme Court's recent rulings on the subject are few. And in California, millions of homeowners are awaiting it anxiously: it could mean drastically higher taxes for some and lower payments for others.
 
Attacking One Provision
 Ms. Nordlinger bought her little home in the Baldwin Hills section several miles southwest of downtown Los Angeles in 1988. She paid $170,000 for the 1,100-square-foot bungalow, comparable to other houses nearby that sold for as little as $32,000 in 1975.
Under Proposition 13, property tax rates are limited to 1 percent of assessed value. For properties bought before the measure was passed in 1978, the value was rolled back to the 1975 level. For those bought after 1978, the assessed value is determined by the selling price.
Lawyers sardonically call this the "welcome, stranger" provision, and it is the section of Proposition 13 under attack before the Supreme Court. Apart from a small annual increase of no more than 2 percent to account for inflation, taxes can increase only when the property changes hands. This differs from the practice in most states, where the tax rate is based on current market values.
For Ms. Nordlinger, this means that she pays $1,700 a year in taxes, while owners of similar houses in her neighborhood on South Sycamore Street pay as little as $320, or less than a fifth of what she does.
 
Discrepancies Are the Rule
 The enormous inflation in property values in California since 1978 has made such discrepancies the rule throughout the state. The California Association of Realtors says the median price of a California house has grown from $41,500 in 1975 to $195,420 in January.
A 7,800-square-foot mansion on two-thirds of an acre on North Maple Drive in Beverly Hills is valued today at $3.8 million, but the owner pays about $3,290 a year in taxes. By contrast, the owner of a 980-square-foot bungalow in the Venice area of Los Angeles, which recently sold for $370,400, pays $3,704.
In his petition to the Supreme Court, Carlyle W. Hall Jr., Ms. Nordlinger's main lawyer, argues that this is an inequity that violates the Constitution.
"No legitimate public policy rationale explains why one California resident must pay tens of thousands of dollars more in taxes over a decade than his or her next-door neighbors who live in nearly identical homes and who receive the same public services and facilities," he wrote.
 
Defenders Cite Stability
 Defenders of Proposition 13, including many of Ms. Nordlinger's neighbors who are upset about the suit, argue that it not only offers businesses and homeowners stability and predictability in their taxes, but that it also protects elderly people on fixed incomes. New buyers, they say, know what they will pay and can therefore presumably afford it.
"Proposition 13 is doing what it's designed to do in protecting people from outrageous taxes," said Joel D. Fox, president of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, a successor to the group that originally led the battle for the measure. "The people who built the community through their taxation, they have a right to that equity for their retirement or their health benefits."
The measure is also defended by many businesses that fear its overturn would lead the Legislature to raise business property taxes rather than face the political wrath of millions of elderly homeowners who would be hit with huge increases of their property taxes.
But another of Ms. Nordlinger's lawyers, Ann E. Carlson of Mr. Hall's firm, Hall & Phillips, contended that the measure largely protected the rich, not the poor. She said the greatest tax disparities occurred in wealthy areas like the West Side of Los Angeles, Bel-Air and Beverly Hills, where property inflation has been the greatest.
As for protecting the elderly, she said: "There are plenty of alternatives that are targeted to the people who really need help. The state already has a property tax assistance program and a postponement program. If you want to help senior citizens, help senior citizens. Prop 13 scatters its benefits so arbitarily. It's not focused on the people who need it."
The main effect of Proposition 13 was to shift much of the financing of schools and local governments to the state, which had large surpluses in the late 1970's and the 1980's. But in recent years the state has faced large shortfalls in tax revenues that have made it impossible to continue increasing school and local spending.
Even if the Supreme Court overturns the "welcome, stranger" provision of Proposition 13, increases in government spending are strictly limited by another California law, passed by the voters in 1979.
In their court battle against Proposition 13, the opponents had been encouraged by a 1989 Supreme Court ruling in involving Webster County in West Virginia. The county had been defying state law by failing to update evaluations of coal mining land, thereby giving long-term land holders much lower taxes. In that case, Allegheny Pittsburgh Coal Co. v. Webster County, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote that the Constitution required "rough equality in tax treatment of similarly situated property owners."
But some legal experts point out that the West Virginia case differs markedly from California's because the county assessor's actions were not sanctioned by state law and because West Virginia's assessment procedures were not shaped by a state constitutional amendment.
And at Tuesday's arguments in Washington, a majority of Justices seemed, from their comments and questions, to be disinclined to tamper with Proposition 13. Justice Antonin Scalia called it "rough and ready, not perfect but close enough for government work."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A 7,800-square-foot mansion in Beverly Hills, Calif., above, is valued today at $3.8 million, but the owner pays about $3,290 a year in taxes. By contrast, the owner of a 980-square-foot bungalow in the Venice area of Los Angeles, below, which recently sold for $370,400, pays $3,704 a year. (Photographs by Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times)
 
Table: "California's Unequal Tax Burden," compares property taxes for selected California neighborhood's, the current market value of the home, and property taxes for new owner and pre-1975 owner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PROPOSITION 13 (CALIFORNIA INITIATIVE); PROPERTY TAXES TAXES & TAXATION (93%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EQUAL PROTECTION (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (76%); LAWYERS (74%); TAX CONSULTING (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT; NORDLINGER, STEPHANIE STEPHANIE NORDLINGER (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



50 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 33; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Men and Women Replacing the Paperboy of Tradition

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
The paperboy, a centuries-old symbol of youthful enterprise, is growing up.
Changes in the newspaper industry over the last decade, as well as demographic shifts and the recession, have pushed more adults into the business of delivering daily newspapers, a job once dominated by 12-year-olds. 
 The adults are people like Stanley Newman, a 68-year-old chemist from Fishkill, N.Y., who started delivering the Poughkeepsie Journal in the early 1980's after retiring from a 30-year career at Texaco as a research scientist. "It's become a pretty good source of income," he said, "and you can't put a price on the exercise benefits."
Beverly Toews, a 41-year-old textile mill worker who is divorced, was inspired by her teen-age son, Don, to get her own paper route. He gave his up in August -- citing the early hours -- but Mrs. Toews still delivers The Hartford Courant each morning in Bristol, Conn., where she lives, before leaving for work at 6:30. "It's a little extra money that comes in handy," she said.
 
The Dawn Patrol
 The switch from youth to adult carriers -- as they're known in the business -- is most pronounced in metropolitan areas, where many newspapers have moved to morning publication.
Often newspapers must arrive on front porches in the slate-gray light before dawn. But many youngsters don't want to wake up that early, and parents worry about their children being out in the dark. Quickly filling the void are retirees, homemakers and people with full-time jobs interested in adding to their income.
With the aging of the paperboy, the sun is setting on an American tradition. The first paperboy in the United States is believed to have been Benjamin Franklin who in 1718, at the age of 12, toted copies of The Boston Gazette for his brother, James, a Boston printer. Before that, newspapers were mailed.
Since then, generations of boys, and more recently girls, have found their first brush with capitalism and the work ethic through paper routes.
The trend to older carriers is sad, said Joseph B. Forsee, executive director of the International Circulation Managers Association, "because managing a newspaper route is a good basis for business training, and youngsters are going to be missing that."
 
Adults Still Outnumbered
 Youth carriers still outnumber adult carriers nationwide, but the adults are gaining. The circulation managers association estimates that in 1990 there were 362,470 teen-agers delivering papers, compared with 188,886 adults. But from 1980 to 1990, the number of youth carriers dropped 60 percent, while the number of adult carriers rose 112 percent.
In New Jersey, The Asbury Park Press, with a daily circulation of 164,000, recently underwent a complete changeover in its delivery force. The paper, the third largest in the state, is still considered an afternoon daily, but the circulation department has worked to have it delivered earlier. "We took two and a half years to convert from a predominantly youth carrier system to one that is 100 percent adults," said Terry A. Whitney, the circulation director.
Not everyone was happy about the transformation there. "We did lose a number of customers who said they will subscribe again when we go back to youth carriers," Mr. Whitney said. "We had preached for years that this was the first business experience that a 12-year-old or 13-year-old would get in life. We sold newspaper routes to parents and to young people that way for years, and all of a sudden we're saying that doesn't hold water anymore."
The 1,000 carriers can now get the paper delivered by 11:30 A.M. whereas in the past the deadline was 6 P.M. "The customers wanted the paper earlier, and we've picked up thousands of new subscribers as a result," he said.
 
More Money in Fast Food
 More common is the slow but steady increase in adult deliverers. At the Poughkeepsie Journal, for instance, adults handled only 10 percent of the routes before the paper went to morning publication 12 years ago. Today, adults have 40 percent of the routes.
Beyond the shift to morning publication, newspaper executives cite several factors for the decline in paperboys. In the wake of the baby-boom years of the 1960's, the pool of teen-agers has steadily shrunk, and many young people found they could make more money and work better hours at fast-food restaurants.
Most newspapers make parents sign a statement saying they bear ultimate responsibility for their children's routes. In the robust 1980's, many parents preferred to give children allowances rather than drive them in the rain and snow. And Sunday editions grew so thick with advertising that it became imperative for parents to load their trunks.
In the last few years, the recession has motivated adults to take second jobs and homemakers to take part-time work.
Joyce Brooks of Peekskill, N.Y., brings her newborn along as she makes her daily rounds in nearby Ossining delivering The Citizen Register. She netted $13,000 last year, she said, delivering 450 papers a day in two hours. "For that amount of time and money, you couldn't work anywhere else," she said.
 
Income Up to $20,000
 The income for adult carriers varies, depending on the size of their routes. Someone with a few dozen papers might make only a couple of thousand dollars a year, while a carrier with several hundred papers could make $20,000 or more.
When he retired, Dr. Newman took over the routes of three teen-agers and is now up at 5, delivering 125 papers with the help of his wife, Madelyn. While he's pleased with his annual profit of $4,000, he says the health benefits count more.
"I have observed people who retired at the same time I did and at the same age, and I've aged very little by comparison," Dr. Newman said. "I firmly believe this is one of the best things you can do when you retire."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "It's a little extra money that comes in handy," said Beverly Toews, a 41-year-old textile mill worker who delivers The Hartford Courant in Bristol, Conn. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: TEXACO AS (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TEENAGERS; NEWSPAPERS; URBAN AREAS POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); ETHICS (70%); CITIES (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



51 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 34; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: SUIT TIES LAYOFFS TO DISCRIMINATION

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN

 BODY:
A former assistant art director of DCA Advertising contended in a lawsuit filed on Friday that the Japanese-owned agency discriminated against employees born in the United States and favored its Japanese workers when the company dismissed 26 employees last year.
In his lawsuit, filed in United States District Court in Manhattan, Julius Filicia said that of the 26 employees who were dismissed only one was Japanese and that employee had already informed the agency that she was returning to Japan. 
 Mr. Filicia charged that the dismissals violated Federal laws banning discrimination.
 
Complaint Called Groundless
 Howard S. Veisz, a lawyer for the agency, argued that the complaint was "groundless" and that several of the employees who were laid off last year because of the recession were Japanese.
Burton Vaupen, a company official, denied there was any discrimination. He said only 23 employees were dismissed last year and of those three were Japanese.
But Mr. Filicia's lawyer, Debra Raskin, insisted that the Japanese woman returning home was the only Japanese employee dismissed. Moreover, she said the complaint reflected a pattern of discrimination against United States employees in general and women in particular by Japanese-owned companies in this country.
Ms. Raskin said five other DCA employees filed a similar discrimination complaint against DCA last year and that "about a half dozen similar suits" involving other companies have been filed in other courts.
 
Preferential Treatment
 One of the dismissed DCA executives, Russell Goyette, a former group account director, contended in last year's suit that he discussed his dismissal with Toshio Naito, the president of DCA. In the complaint, Mr. Goyette quoted Mr. Naito as saying that DCA treated Japanese-born employees more favorably than American-born.
But Mr. Vaupen said the quotation was a "misunderstanding." That complaint is still pending.
DCA is a wholly owned subsidiary of Dentsu Inc. of Japan, the largest advertising agency in the world.
Mr. Vaupen said "98 percent of our clients are Japanese companies doing business in the United States."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 4324 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DCA ADVERTISING DENTSU INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DCA ADVERTISING

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; DISCRIMINATION LITIGATION (91%); DISMISSALS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); LAWYERS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, RONALD BURTON VAUPEN (82%); JULIUS FILICIA (82%); TOSHIO NAITO (70%); DEBRA RASKIN (65%); RUSSELL GOYETTE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



52 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: When the Need Grows

 BODY:
Yesterday's leap day marked the formal end of the 80th annual appeal for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. It also marked a notable leap in giving. Despite tough times -- perhaps because of them -- the fund received $5,081,419, surpassing last year by more than $500,000.
This is the seventh consecutive year that the fund has topped the previous record. This increase, during recession, reflects donors' conviction that no child is beyond rescue, that no adult has to live in desperation. There's little doubt that giving has gained because the need has grown so clear. Hard times have brought poverty to thousands of New Yorkers; it's a time when economic fears touch even the fortunate. 
 Thanks are owed to the 16,300 individuals who have responded so generously to this year's appeal. Those who mailed in pennies or $10 or $10,000 can be assured that all funds contributed will reach the needy. Nothing is held back for solicitation or administration.
As always, the fund will operate throughout the year, providing a continuing opportunity to help. Donations received from this date forward will be credited to the 81st campaign, which starts next December. Contributions are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Checks should be made payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund and mailed to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: THE POST OFFICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND; EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



53 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: From Monsters to Mainstream

 BODY:
Just a few years ago the rapidly advancing field of biotechnology aroused fears that scientists might inadvertently create monstrous life forms or unleash devastating new germs on an unprotected world. The nation has gained experience and the fears have largely subsided. Now, biotechnology is viewed as the next high-tech industry that can bring new energy to the economy, and the regulatory mood has rightly shifted from containment toward encouragement.
The latest manifestation came last week when the White House issued its policy on regulating the release of new biotechnology products into the environment. Although developed by an Administration accused of knee-jerk assaults on regulation, the policy -- years in the making -- embodies a scientifically sound approach to the tricky business of deciding which products are worth strict regulation and which are not. 
 The policy wisely abandons the notion that processes like genetic engineering are inherently dangerous. Instead, it focuses on the characteristics of the product and the environment into which it will be introduced. A gene inserted into a domestic crop to improve its protein quality seems unlikely to cause any harm. But a gene inserted into fish to make them larger or more resistant to cold could disrupt other aquatic organisms.
Regulators will henceforth intervene only when there is evidence that the risk is "unreasonable." But "unreasonable risk" is quite reasonably defined; products will be regulated when the benefits to be gained from reducing the risk exceed the full social cost of regulation.
Unreasonable risk is already a criterion used by environmental regulators, so the new policy will not weaken existing safeguards. Indeed, the policy leaves intact all the existing statutes under which agencies regulate risky products.
Environmentalists fear the policy leaves the White House Council on Competitiveness wide room to head off any efforts, however justified, to crack down on unsafe products. That won't become clear until agencies try to issue new regulations conforming with the policy. But for now the guiding philosophy seems right. This policy is hardly a monster.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE COUNCIL (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE COUNCIL (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (76%); PRODUCT SAFETY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



54 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: A Pragmatic, Not Partisan, Debate;
Who Can Fix the Economy?

 BODY:
One issue above all defines the 1992 Presidential campaign: how to fix the economy. The anguishingly slow recovery from recession is only the beginning. Voters have suffered from stagnant wages for two decades and want a President who can turn the economy around. The candidates know this, and ask to be judged accordingly.
Surprisingly, the differences between the leading candidates this year are pragmatic, not ideological. Republicans and Democrats can be judged together.
 
President Bush
 The consistent thread of his three years in office is a commitment to do very little. The recession barely attracts his attention; stagnating productivity and wages not even that. He rehearses his benighted call to cut the capital gains tax. Yet even his chief economic adviser estimates the impact would be minuscule. 
 Mr. Bush's "growth" plan calls for permanent tax cuts on income and retirement savings. These would produce huge deficits, forcing a future Congress to shortchange infrastructure, children and research. The President picks out real estate for new subsidies -- as if competition with Japan and Germany could be won with more empty office buildings. This growth plan is anti-growth.
 
Patrick Buchanan
 The challenger's campaign is long on bluster. Asked for every written detail of his economic program, his headquarters supplies an 8-by-10 glossy photo, a rambling magazine interview and four half-pages of platitudes.
One example: "Play hardball in trade talks." Another: Phase out foreign aid. That's demagogics, not economics. No need to address the plight of poor children left behind in ghettos or chronically ill workers shunned by medical insurers.
The principal campaign irony so far is that even conservatives must, for a responsible economic vision, turn to the two leading Democrats, Paul Tsongas and Bill Clinton. Neither proposes large-scale spending to extract the economy from recession. Neither proposes large corporate tax hikes. Neither advocates re-regulating airlines, trucking or Ma Bell. Very cautious.
 
Paul Tsongas
 His program, titled "A Call to Economic Arms," is a clarion call to pro-business Democrats. It calls for tax subsidies for investment, more-lenient antitrust laws and targeted cuts in the tax on capital gains. His idea is to revive the economy by boosting corporate investment.
Still, his famous gray pamphlet is no blueprint. He waffles on trade, first raising questions about the loyalty of those who buy imported cars, then declaring he's no protectionist. For Mr. Tsongas trade is great, if all the exporters are American.
He does resist bravely the shameless calls of other Democrats, and the President, for a nearly useless middle-class tax cut. Instead, he calls for increasing gasoline taxes -- the best energy policy imaginable.
 
Bill Clinton
 If Mr. Tsongas concentrates on capital and equipment, Mr. Clinton concentrates on people. Wisely, he addresses the first cause of America's sorry productivity: undereducated, undertrained workers. That leads him to offer innovative ways to make college universally affordable, to require employers to train workers and to reform welfare.
By focusing on people, Mr. Clinton's program takes on a different look and feel from those of the other candidates, setting up his grievance that theTsongas program is "cold-blooded."
In truth, these two programs are more similar than either candidate is willing to admit. Indeed, the two could be stitched together seamlessly. Mr. Tsongas wants more investment and Mr. Clinton wants better workers. America needs both.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); TAX INCREASES (69%); FUEL TAX (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); ENERGY REGULATION (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%); SLUM DWELLINGS (66%); GASOLINE (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (62%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (52%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; TSONGAS, PAUL E; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



55 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Page 15; Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine

LENGTH: 3117 words

HEADLINE: Splashy, Flashy Miami

BYLINE: BY FRANCINE PROSE; Francine Prose is the author of "Primitive People," to be published by Farrar, Straus & Giroux.

 BODY:
ON HALLOWEEN, on Calle Ocho, the heart of Miami's Little Havana, quite a few of the little girls are dressed as Carmen Miranda -- while over in South Miami Beach, quite a few of the guys are, too. It seems right that a wide cross section of the local population should take to the streets in tiered ruffles, ear hoops, turbans and tropical fruit. One feels the spirit of Carmen Miranda hovering over the "new" Miami, informing and reflecting the city's sense of itself: flashy, Latin, exotic, dangerous and sexy, self-mocking and ironically self-obsessed.
Even the smallest trick-or-treaters are constantly checking out their moves in this city where, it seems, one is rarely far from a mirror. Mirrors are a happy element of Miami decor. Etched with angelfish and flamingos in Miami Beach's restored Art Deco district, they flash throughout this neighborhood of treasures from the 1930's and 40's, buildings designed like steamships, rockets, radios, Egyptian temples, gems of architectural wit and wacky streamlined beauty. Mirrors wink from the walls and windows of Little Havana's popular Versailles restaurant and line the heroic lobbies of the Eden Roc and the Fontainebleau, megahotels on Collins Avenue built by Morris Lapidus and, in recent years, returned to their guiltless, exhibitionist 50's glory. On nearly every corner of Ocean Drive, some photographer's helper is rotating a silvered disk to redirect the already perfect light onto a swimsuited model posed against the sea, the palms, the glass bricks and pastel curves of the Depression Moderne facades. 
 Nor are the models the only ones posing. The waiters at the chic South Beach cafes seem wrenchingly undecided as to whether to strike attitudes or cave in and bring your breakfast. Everyone is showing lots of skin, a cultivated bronze one rarely sees, even in summer, in the concrete canyons up north. My two sons, 9 and 13 years old, lapse into a slack-jawed, eroticized daze as they stare at the hard bodies whizzing by on Rollerblades, the scruffy but solvent Europeans in skintight biker shorts. Where are their mothers to pull them into the shade and slather them with sunscreen?
Indeed, sunshine is to Miami as cigarettes are to Europe: still an innocent pleasure that no one seems to have heard can harm you. Perhaps it's the light or the mirrors or the sweet sensuality of the air, but something about the city makes you want to court certain skin damage and work seriously on your tan. The only thing that gives one pause is the size of the elderly. One rarely sees older people so tiny as some are here in Miami, and one can't help thinking they've been shrunk by all those years in the sun. Watching wizened women barely taller than their shopping carts navigating the tides of gay couples, Cuban families and French and German tourists on Lincoln Road in Miami Beach, one feels that one is seeing, together on the same plate, bunches of dewy, ripe, just picked grapes and the raisins they will become.
Fifteen years ago, a friend took me on a "bizarreness" tour of Miami and its surrounding municipalities (which include Coral Gables, Key Biscayne and Miami Beach). The last stop was South Beach's Ocean Drive, then a crime-ridden strip of decaying hotels housing the elderly poor and the occasional junkie. My friend took me to the lobby of what she called the "glitter hotel," whose owner, a stooped old woman, proudly showed us around, displaying how her passion for shiny dust had transfigured the guest rooms, halls and public spaces. Glitter encrusted the ceilings, picture frames, lamps, radios and television sets; sparks of color shot from the fur of the old woman's dog.
Now the hotel has changed owners, and one can't help wondering what its former proprietor would have made of today's glittery South Beach. Most facades on Ocean Drive have been tastefully redone and repainted, and at night the attractive young gather in candlelighted cafes, while above them brilliant neon outlines the ziggurats and portholes.
The neon pinks and purples, the pale pastels, the witty, nonfunctional (Depression-mocking) architectural details evoke a world of carefree sybarites and feckless, dreamy esthetes. But the pricey hotels and cafes are doing very real, apparently recession resistant, business, offering hip Europeans the chance to live out their fantasies of a swank but seedy old-Hollywood-movie tropical free port. (Those lucky few Americans who don't associate Miami with guilt-inspiring elderly relatives tend to see in it elements of nostalgia; the Key lime pie and stone crab at Joe's Stone Crab Restaurant and the soaring, circular, Miami Beach-classical lobby of the Eden Roc have already assumed the sacrosanct aura of venerable, if somewhat campy, historical institutions.)
Every city has its contradictions, and Miami's are striking: the young look younger, the aged more aged; the mansions on Key Biscayne look doubly pink and fat compared to the pitted, cracked stucco cottages in Liberty City and Little Haiti. (Miami likes contradictions and visual jokes; it celebrates trompe l'oeil, from the mural of the Fontainebleau just south of the hotel itself to the Calle Ocho wall painting of a wall like any other, except that Batman, Michael Jackson, Frankenstein and Dagwood are hanging out around this one.)
But the paradox that seems most unique and, arguably, most Miami involves the sorts of questions South Beach raises about the economics of pleasure. Is this city about a near paradisical climate, fantasy and play -- or is it about the money that leisure generates and requires? Is it about hedonism, or investment and hard work, about chaise longues and beach towels or the real estate beneath them?
Nowhere, except in Southern California, is one confronted so dramatically with the way that money influences the style and scope with which the fortunate visionary may make his dreams come true. (One reason children -- certainly my children -- find Miami so much fun is that a great deal of its architecture and many of its tourist attractions seem to have been designed by children with active imaginative lives and limitless personal fortunes.)
So the marvelous Venetian Pool in Coral Gables, built in the 1920's, is a children's-book illustration of a blue-green lagoon in a fantasy world that adults might locate somewhere west of Tahiti and east of Venice and the Alhambra. Originally excavated as a community swimming hole for moneyed residents, the Venetian Pool is hard to find but open to the public, who (for a small fee) can play Tarzan or Jane, paddle under its waterfall, duck into its grottoes and caves, lie on its sandy beach or explore its mosaics, its lavish South Seas landscaping, its swirling, pink, porous coral walls, fountains, pathways and Moorish arches.
Less, as they say, interactive but more grandiose is the Villa Vizcaya on Biscayne Bay, another Venetian-influenced construct from the early part of our century -- in this case a 70-room house built as a winter palace by a prince of industry, farm-machine magnate James Deering, co-founder and vice president of International Harvester. Standing amid the villa's brocaded walls, gilt moldings, chandeliers and classical statuary, one realizes that the Fontainebleu Hilton exists on an esthetic continuum reaching back to the audience halls of the Sultans and the Doges.
Some may find Vizcaya garish and overdone, but there's something moving in its strangeness and its aspirations, in how much it desires and attempts, and by how far it misses: there's something touching about the notion that striped poles, stone bridges, money and sheer effort of will can transform a pretty stretch of Biscayne Bay into the Rialto. In the formal gardens, everywhere one looks, some grotesque stone creature is spitting water into the air, and with their topiary, pergolas, caryatids, urns and grottoes, they do achieve the paradoxically manic tranquillity of the great European folly gardens, like the sculpture park at Bomarzo.
Even odder, and more moving, is the Coral Castle. A half hour south of Vizcaya, Coral Castle should, if possible, be visited on the same day -- enabling one to read the two monuments as glosses on each other: one is public, the other hermetic; one opulent, the other spartan; one costly, involving myriad helpers, the other created in solitude and for almost nothing. Closer in impulse and budget to the "glitter hotel" than to the Italianate mansion, Coral Castle represents two decades of arduous, secretive work on the part of its Latvian-born creator, Edward Leedskalnin, who parlayed a broken heart and a prodigious grasp of primitive physics into art.
Jilted by his fiancee in 1920, the slight, tubercular Leedskalnin devoted himself to quarrying and moving massive blocks of coral into what might be inadequately described as a "sculptural environment": giant rocking chairs, dinner tables, a couch, a bathtub, a coral bed and, beside it, a coral crib. Fascinated by astronomy, Leedeskalnin built a telescope; he also installed a nine-ton gate so well balanced you can swing it closed with only moderate pressure. The results of his obsessive dedication and his ability to move huge chunks of coral still exude a mysterious aura, so that one can hardly blame the tourist brochures for asking: "Did he know the secrets of the Great Pyramids. Did he have superhuman powers?"
What's more puzzling is the subtle attempt by Coral Castle's administrators to pass off this tormented, crackpot creation as an eccentric, Watts Towers-like testament to the immigrant experience: Latvian comes to Florida and gives back something of beauty. Yet in a way, it's not so surprising at all: Miami believes in the possibilities of the immigrant experience as few American cities still do. When a Nicaraguan restaurant owner's bright 5-year-old granddaughter takes a shine to my sons and tells us all about her large family living in cramped quarters and working round the clock, I'm reminded of my grandmother, recalling the Lower East Side.
About half of the people in the Miami area speak Spanish, and thriving Cuban Miami proves that you can still go elsewhere, make a successful new life and, in the process, greatly benefit your adopted home. (A trip through Little Haiti, however, does provide a certain corrective vision; its bright-colored houses and wall murals are beautiful, but most people are very poor, reminding one that those who come here with some money and family connections do tend to prosper faster than those who arrive in inner tubes.)
Much has been written about the fixity with which the old Cuban men playing dominoes on Calle Ocho see themselves as existing in a geographical limbo from which they will be lifted and returned to their native shores. One sees bumper stickers reading: "Our only dialogue with Castro -- blindfold, yes or no?" Yet what's clear is that Miami Cuban-Americans have created another country -- neither Cuba nor Old Florida, unlike anything but itself.
It's hard to find a neighborhood without some Latin influence. On Washington Avenue in South Beach is the Botanica La Caridad, where, surrounded by incense, statuettes, powders, herbs, amulets to attract or repel good or evil influences, I do most of my Miami shopping, purchasing such items as candles that the botanica's owner kindly offered to bless with a knife and sprayings of magic water and glitter. (Miami botanicas tolerate outsiders who understand that they are in a religious store and not the hilarious House of Kitsch.)
One can get fried plantains, picadillo (a ground beef hash) and ropa vieja (a shredded beef dish) upstairs in the glitzy new Bayside Marketplace mall, a sublime Cuban pork sandwich (marinated pork, fried onions, toasted Cuban bread) at a coffee shop on Miracle Mile in Coral Gables, or drink addictive Cuban coffee -- sweet, black and thick as soup -- at cafes and take-out windows throughout greater Miami. (Though normally not a heavy coffee drinker, I got so hooked on cafe Cubano and found myself stopping for it so often that within a few days my hands were shaking.)
All over Miami you keep noticing that no one around you is speaking English. But it's Calle Ocho, also known as Southwest Eighth Street, the eastern end of the old Tamiami Trail, that feels most like another country. It recalls a busy shopping street in Merida or Mexico City, but wider and more vehicular, sprawling and American, with room for car dealerships amid the stands of unidentifiable fruit, the blaring Latin music, the botanicas, the appealing restaurants, the cigar factory. At La Casa de los Trucos are magic tricks and smutty party favors; at La Casa de las Pinatas, the candy-stuffed paper toys swing across a wide cultural range: pinatas in the form of Bart Simpson, the Little Mermaid, Teen-age Mutant Ninja Turtles, in addition to the traditional brightly striped donkeys and oxen.
Of course there's plenty to remind you of the realities of United States city life. You can hardly ask directions in Miami without getting dire crime and safety warnings about the place you're trying to find. (Though by watching the news, one soon understands that, as in other cities, far more crime victims are young black or Hispanic men than Don Johnson-look-alike police or hapless tourists caught in the crossfire.) Still Miami feels more like a lively foreign country than a dying inner city, and, in general, like a welcoming country in which you're quite happy to be.
When Miami boosters talk about their home as the "city of the future," one imagines their vision is of Sun Belt progress and prosperity, Texas without the dip in the oil market, Arizona with enough water. But they also mean, or should mean, something about the Latinization of our culture, about Carmen Miranda's slow but inevitable seduction of Cotton Mather. If, as many suggest, we are becoming a third world country, we might want to look to Miami to show us how to do it, how to brighten our cityscape with imported colors, tastes and spices, and synthesize something vital and fresh -- the new Depression Moderne.
 
 
 
SEEING THE SIGHTS
 The MIAMI BEACH ARCHITECTURAL DISTRICT, commonly known as the Art Deco District, occupies about 120 blocks between Sixth Street and Dade Boulevard. With about 500 Deco structures, the district is believed to contain the world's most concentrated collection of buildings in this style. The MIAMI DESIGN PRESERVATION LEAGUE (in the Leslie Hotel at 1244 Ocean Drive; telephone: 305-672-2014) offers weekly 90-minute, 10-block tours led by local historians and architects. The tours, which depart every Saturday at 10:30 A.M., cost $6. No reservations are necessary. The League also maintains an information center at the Leslie.
CORAL CASTLE is at 28655 U. S. Highway 1, in Homestead (305-248-6344). It is open daily, from 9 to 6; admission is $7.75.
VENETIAN POOL is at 2701 DeSoto Boulevard, Coral Gables (305-460-5356). Call ahead: hours and days vary seasonally. Admission is $4.
VIZCAYA MUSEUM AND GARDENS is at 3251 South Miami Avenue, between downtown Miami and Coconut Grove (305-579-2708). It is open daily from 9:30 to 4:30; admission is $8. From March 19 through March 22, the Museum and the Italian Renaissance Society will host a Renaissance festival, with costumed jugglers, jesters, strolling troubadours and madrigal singers; admission is $9.
 
 
 
A SEASON IN THE SUN
HOTELS BAROQUE AND DECO
 The FONTAINEBLEU HILTON RESORT AND SPA (4441 Collins Avenue, Miami Beach, Fla. 33140; telephone: 800-445-8667), set amid 20 acres of oceanside gardens, has 1,206 rooms and suites. Doubles range from $190 to $260 for a room with a terrace and ocean view. The four-bedroom, two-story Governor's Suite, at $5,000 a night, comes with billiard room, piano, full kitchen and bar. The hotel's amenities include two outdoor pools with grottoes and waterfalls, tennis courts, cabanas, a two-mile boardwalk and 12 restaurants and lounges, among them the TROPIGALA nightclub, with Las Vegas and Latin American revues, and the DINING GALLERIES, where a three-course dinner, which might include fresh Florida pompano, costs around $100 for two, with wine. Note: Certain sections of the hotel may be under renovation.
The EDEN ROC HOTEL AND MARINA (4525 Collins Avenue, Miami Beach, Fla. 33140; 800-327-8337), next door to the Fontainebleau, has 350 rooms, each with a view of the ocean or the Intracoastal Waterway. Doubles range from $120 to $185; a two-bedroom oceanside suite costs $385. There are two pools, four lounges, a boardwalk and three restaurants, including the PORCH, where entrees include lamb Dijon and seafood pasta. A three-course dinner for two, with wine, averages around $75.
The PARK CENTRAL HOTEL (640 Ocean Drive, Miami Beach, Fla. 33139; 305-538-1611), a recently refurbished 1937 Deco hotel in Miami Beach's historic district, has 80 rooms with mahogany ceiling fans and period decor. Double rooms range from $80 to $125, depending upon season and view, including breakfast. There is a pool and an Italian restaurant, BAROCCO, on the premises. Entrees include mixed seafood grill and pasta dishes; around $70 for two, including wine.
The ART DECO HOTELS, a consortium (1320 Ocean Drive, Miami Beach, Fla. 33139; 800-338-9076), handles reservations and information for the CAVALIER, the LESLIE and the CARDOZO hotels. Rates, which include breakfast, range from $65 to $175 (for ocean suites), depending on season and view.
 
 
THE TASTE OF THE TOWN
 JOE'S STONE CRAB RESTAURANT (227 Biscayne Street, in Miami Beach; 305-673-0365) is a Miami Beach tradition. The most popular dinner choice includes large stone crab claws (served cold with drawn butter and mustard sauce), cole slaw, hash browns or french-fried sweet potatoes and, for dessert, Key lime pie. A dinner for two, with wine or drinks, costs about $65.
CHEZ MOY INTERNATIONAL RESTAURANT (1 Northwest 54th Street in Miami's Little Haiti; 305-757-5056) specializes in such Haitian dishes as an appetizer of boiled plantains followed by steamed spicy red snapper with rice, red beans and fried bananas. A three-course dinner for two costs about $30.
VERSAILLES (3555 Southwest Eighth Street, in the heart of Little Havana; 305-444-0240) offers combination plates of typical Cuban fare: one such includes yellow rice and black beans with fried pork, ropa vieja, boiled yucca with garlic sauce and lemon, fried sweet plantains and a Cuban tamale of corn and pork. Desserts include guava cheesecake, flan and rice pudding, all made in the restaurant's bakery. Dinner for two costs about $30, including wine.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Neon cuts through the twilight on palm-lined Ocean Drive, the Art Deco district in South Miami Beach. (pg. 15); Bas reliefs and topiaries embellish a staircase in the gardens of the Villa Vizcaya on Biscayne Bay. (pg. 16); A street preacher in Coconut Grove. Cigar manufacturing at the El Credito cigar shop in Little Havana. (pg. 17)(Photographs by Philip-Lorca Dicorcia for The New York Times); Dominoes are a popular outdoor sport in Little Havana. (Philip-Lorca Dicorcia for The New York Times)(pg. 64)
 
Map of Miami (pg. 62)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIAMI (FLA) UNITED STATES (97%); FLORIDA, USA (97%); MIAMI, FL, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL RESTAURANTS (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (88%); HALLOWEEN (79%); BASKETBALL (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); 

PERSON: PROSE, FRANCINE

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



56 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The South;
The 'Bubba' Stereotype Is Vanishing As a Region Becomes More Moderate

BYLINE: By By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Feb. 29

 BODY:
In theory, the battle for Southern voters revolves around the stereotypical white Southerner, usually known as "Bubba," who is partial to country music and conservative politics.
But as Presidential politics move into the states of the Confederacy, the biggest question about Bubba may not be how he will vote but how to find him. 
 Because of the importance of black voters, an influx of newcomers to the South, a moderating influence on many whites from growing economic strength and modest electoral participation by working-class whites, primary voting in the South no longer lives up to the stereotypes.
"The main thing about Bubba is that Bubba hasn't been voting much in the Democratic primary or the Republican primary," said Prof. Earl Black, a political scientist at the University of South Carolina. "To the extent he's been voting, it's mostly been in the general election."
 
South Takes Center Stage
 Still, conservative blue-collar whites could be important this year as swing voters who may help decide the course of both the Republican and Democratic races. Their votes could be particularly important to Patrick J. Buchanan on the Republican side and Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas on the Democratic.
Beginning with the primary here in Georgia on Tuesday and the South Carolina primary Saturday, the South dominates the political calendar for the next 10 days. It culminates with Super Tuesday on March 10, when 11 states will vote, including Texas, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee in the South, and the border states Oklahoma and Missouri.
Until the last two decades, only one party primary mattered in the South. It was Democratic, and largely reflected the conservative tendencies of the region. But several factors, including the rising importance of black voters, have changed that.
Professor Black's book, "The Vital South," (Harvard University Press, 1992), which he wrote with his brother, Merle Black, a political science professor at Emory University, notes that as late as 1960 there were no black delegates from the South at the Democratic National Convention. In 1968, blacks made up 10 percent of the Southern delegates. By 1988 blacks were a third of Southern delegates, exceeding their share of the total population and reflecting their importance in the primary electorate.
 
Stereotype Is Void
 Polls of voters leaving the polling places after the 1988 Presidential primaries in the South indicated how much Democratic primary voters now differ from the stereotypical Southerner.
In the states with primaries in the next two weeks, only in Tennessee did whites raised in the South account for half of the Democratic primary voters. In Mississippi and Alabama, blacks made up almost half the electorate. In Texas, blacks were 23 percent of the voters and Hispanic people accounted for 11 percent.
Only in Florida and Tennessee did minorities make up less than a third of the electorate, but the dominant group of voters in Florida is one of whites raised outside the South, who accounted for 56 percent of the voters.
The minority vote was inflated somewhat in 1988, when the Rev. Jesse Jackson was in the race, but the basic trends were clear, Professor Earl Black said: the Democratic vote was dominated by blacks and moderate-to-liberal whites.
 
Widening the Electorate
 On the Republican side, party primaries have long been the preserve of the suburban white-collar conservatives, although Professor Black says that Mr. Buchanan has the potential to bring out some blue-collar voters. The potential is particularly strong in states like Georgia, where voters can cast ballots for candidates of either party. "Pat Buchanan is the ideal candidate to bring them out," Professor Black said. "He's throwing out a lot of red meat."
Louisiana and Florida are the only two of the seven Southern states holding primaries in the next two weeks that limit voting by party registration.
But demographic factors, as well as political ones, will determine the electorate.
In Florida, the least typically Southern state in the region, blacks are likely to make up about 15 percent to 25 percent of the Democratic electorate, with Hispanic people probably accounting for another 5 to 10 percent, said George Oster, political director of the Florida Democratic Party.
"Florida's such as diverse state," he said. "There is less of a tendency in Florida for the automatic vote for the Southern candidate than in the rest of the South."
 
Republicans Near Parity
 The growth has made Florida, along with South Carolina, one of two Southern states where the Republican Party is nearing parity with the Democrats. In 1988, 901,000 voters turned out for the Republican primary in Florida and 1.2 million voted in the Democratic one.
Stan Smith, spokesman for the Florida Republican Party, said the people moving from other regions are the backbone of the Republican primary.
"There are communities that will turn out heavily in this primary that literally didn't exist in the last Presidential election," he said.
Presidential primaries have different histories in different states, so it is hard to generalize about turnout.
In Texas, where the primaries once served, in effect, as a general election, with the Democratic victor the sure winner in November, there is a long tradition of primary participation.
 
Differences Among Primaries
 "Until the last 15 or 20 years, the only election that mattered was the Democratic primary," said the Texas Democratic Party Chairman, Bob Slagle. "As a consequence, primaries are regarded much more seriously here."
South Carolina Democrats will be having their first Presidential primary while Mississippi holds only its second this year. Both had caucuses in the past, and the absence of a history of Presidential primaries could help keep the turnout low.
The races are also certain to be affected by the size of the region and the cost of running. President Bush's longtime ties to Texas, where he claims his legal residence would make it a tough state for Mr. Buchanan under any circumstances. But the expense of running there doubles his problem in making a strong showing, said Texas Republican Party Chairman Fred Meyer.
"In New Hampshire, Buchanan spent 40 days and $1.5 million dollars on a million people. "If he had six months and $5 million dollars, he could get the same kind of penetration here and maybe get 30 percent of the vote."
On the Democratic side, a major question is how big a black turnout will be there without Mr. Jackson in the race. Ed Cole, the chairman of the Mississippi Democratic Party, said the size of the black turnout would not necessarily affect the outcome in a state where Bill Clinton was the only candidate with a major presence.
 
Clinton May Be Hurt
 "A small turnout he gets a good vote, a large turnout he gets a good vote," he said. "He's the only one doing anything here."
But a bigger question is what will happen among conservative whites. If they become excited by Mr. Buchanan's message and decide to vote for him, that could hurt Mr. Clinton, as well as Mr. Bush, by taking away the voters Mr. Clinton has been counting on. More in question is what effect David Duke will have, particulary in Mississippi, South Carolina and Louisiana, where he will be competing in the Republican primaries with Mr. Buchanan for the most conservative white voters.
Beyond that, some question whether Mr. Buchanan's abrasive style will work in the South.
"It's like Preparation H ads," Hastings Wyman Jr., publisher of the Southern Political Report, a political newsletter, said of Mr. Buchanan's graphic advertisements accusing Mr. Bush of sanctioning Government support of pornographic art. "A lot of people in the South are going to think that just shouldn't be on televison."
But there are some signs that Mr. Buchanan's conservative campaign may be bringing new voters into the Republican primaries. In Louisiana, he was endorsed by Billy Nungesser, the chairman of the state Republican Party.
And in Tennessee, Tommy Hopper, the chairman of the state Republican Party, said: "Everybody that's involved in his campaign in Tennessee are new people. I've been in the party since I was 11 years old, and I recognize virtually none of the names, which tells me, he's drawing in a lot of new people, and they may increase the primary vote."
 *Georgia, in the same order: 36, 47, 17.
*Louisiana: 38, 46, 16.
*Mississippi: 45, 43, 12.
*Tennessee: 27, 56, 16.
*Texas: 23, 43, 24, with 11 percent Hispanic voters.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday showing the racial breakdown of voters in the 1988 primaries for six Southern states carried indistinct shading in most copies, leaving the segments unlabeled. These were the percentages:
*Florida: black, 17; white and raised in the South, 26; white and raised elsewhere, 56.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Southern States: A Strong Showing of Democrats," shows racial breakdown of the Democratic electorate, and Democrats as a percentage of all primary voters in 1998 primaries for Florida, Georgia, Louisianna, Mississippi, Tennesee and Texas (Sources: New York Times/CBS New Poll of voters in each primary)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTHERN STATES (US); FLORIDA; GEORGIA; LOUISIANA; MISSISSIPPI; TENNESSEE; TEXAS UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES ; VOTER BEHAVIOR; BLACKS (IN US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (74%); COUNTRY MUSIC (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (61%); 

PERSON: ;APPLEBOME, PETER BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



57 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Page 67; Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine

LENGTH: 2736 words

HEADLINE: As American As Apple Pie

BYLINE: BY NANCY HARMON JENKINS; Nancy Harmon Jenkins is working on a book about ethnic cooking in the United States.

 BODY:
The french call it la bonne cuisine du terroir, that style of food particular to a place, food that you find in one region and not another, food that belongs there because the climate, the soil and the ethnic groups who settled that place all work together to create it.
If you want to know what a region's food is like, look first at the lay of the land. Take the Pacific Northwest, for example, and take Seattle because it's an easy town in which to explore local food ways. Facing Puget Sound and home port to a fishing fleet that ranges the North Pacific, Seattle thrives on salmon, oysters and other products of the sea, drawing on its hinterland, the rain-washed Cascades and the Olympic Peninsula, for a bounty of berries, mush- rooms and other wild and home-grown edibles. 
 You can't walk across the Columbia River on the backs of spawning salmon anymore, but the region is still a fisherman's paradise and salmon is still king. Spring salmon start to come into the market from the Columbia in late February; Alaska's Copper River kings arrive around mid-May. These fat, creamy-fleshed salmon go especially well with a slightly chilled, berry-flavored pinot noir from the region.
Pacific halibut is another fine fish, with firm, meaty, clear white flesh. The International Pacific Halibut Commission regulates the catch, allowing United States fishermen two to four 24-hour "openings," or seasons, from May through September, sometimes October. After one of these openings, fresh halibut appears on restaurant menus from Seattle to Vancouver, B. C., and on up to Anchorage. Frozen halibut, the alternative the rest of the year, doesn't compare.
In season, you'll find salmon and halibut on the menus of many Seattle restaurants. Two personal favorites are Dahlia Lounge, at 1904 Fourth Avenue, and Elliott's, on the Seattle waterfront at Pier 56. There's a Pacific Rim spin to the fish dishes at Dahlia Lounge, salmon grilled with a hoisin barbecue sauce, for instance. Tom Douglas, the chef and co-owner, says this reflects both Seattle's proximity to the Orient and its large Asian-American population. Elliott's serves its fish more plainly; it is also home to an extensive oyster bar where you can try superb local oysters like Olympias and Westcott Bay Petites. Not to be missed, too, are tender, sweet little singing scallops -- so called, I believe, because their shells gape open as if in a chorus.
Kasu black cod, often on the menu at Elliott's and other local spots, is a regional specialty you won't find elsewhere. Marinating in kasu (the lees from sake mixed with a little salt and sugar) tenderizes the black cod (also known as sablefish) and makes the flesh slightly translucent. Tony Casad, the chef at Elliott's, steams the fish, then bakes it. The crisp, brown, slightly sweet, caramelized surface is a knockout contrast to the soft, delicate texture of the fish. If you want to take kasu black cod home, you'll find it at Queen Anne Thriftway, 1908 Queen Anne Avenue North, near the Space Needle, or at Uwajimaya, 519 Sixth Avenue South, just off Jackson Street in the International District.
Queen Anne Thriftway, like other local retailers, has responded enthusiastically to the proliferation of local products, particularly cheeses and wines -- not only the grape wines that give this region renown, but also Hoodsport Winery's fruit and berry wines. Unlikely as it sounds, their rhubarb wine might be mistaken for a white zinfandel.
Uwajimaya was established in 1928 to serve Japanese bachelor laborers working in logging camps and fisheries. Today, under the stewardship of Tomio Moriguchi, the founder's son, the bustling department store has Asian food products and a sparkling fish section, including Uwajimaya's kasu black cod and kasu salmon, on the ground floor, as well as a more general market upstairs.
Another fine Seattle food market is Larry's, at 10008 Aurora Avenue North, one of five locations in and around the city, which has an especially broad selection of regional produce: greens, berries, fruits and vegetables, wild and cultivated mushrooms. The large organic produce section responds to consumer demand, says Larry McKinney, the owner, and also reflects his belief that "it's the only sensible direction for American agriculture to take."
This approach, so typical of retailers in the region, has in part been inspired by the Pike Place market in the heart of Seattle, one of the best-known public markets in the country. In the dozen or so food shops in this lively market, chefs and shoppers mingle in search of the best local products. At Nancy Rentschler's Quality Cheese, for example, you can buy Sally Jackson's aged sheep's milk cheese -- in my estimation, one of the finest cheeses in this country.
SOMETIMES A REGION'S FOOD IS AS marked by the people who settle there as it is by the lay of the land. In Wisconsin, the lush, rolling grasslands and deep, loamy soil attracted German settlers looking for good farming country. Although the Germans were followed by others -- Poles, Finns, Danes, Swedes -- German culture had great impact on Wisconsin's food, especially along the southern corridor between Milwaukee, on Lake Michigan, and Madison, the state capital, an hour west.
There is no better way to get a handle on German Milwaukee than to visit Usinger's, the sausage-making establishment at 1030 North Old World Third Street. Founded in the late 1870's, when Fred Usinger arrived from Germany, the shop has changed little since, although in 1906 delightful murals of elfin sausage makers were added. Cool marble counters and open glass cases display an astonishing variety of sausages, all made on the premises: blood sausage with tongue, sulze with red peppers, Hessische landleberwurst, jagdwurst with pistachios and garlic, to name only a few.
Beer is the other side of German Milwaukee. Besides the Pabst and Miller breweries, where visitors are welcome for guided tours, there are several smaller breweries like the Sprecher Brewing Company, 730 West Oregon Street, whose small-scale brewing produces an exceptional product. Beers at Sprecher include special amber, with a complex and pleasantly bitter flavor; weissbier, made from malted wheat; hefeweiss, the same as weissbier but more coarsely filtered, and a dark, well-aged Bavarian. Sprecher also makes a refreshing root beer.
The restaurant scene in Milwaukee tends mostly toward old-fashioned German gemutlichkeit. At establishments like the John Ernst Cafe (600 East Ogden) and the Bavarian Wurst Haus (8310 West Appleton Avenue) the portions of Wiener schnitzel, sauerbraten and smoky kassler rippchen are copious, and the waitress happily fills your coffee cup as soon as you sit down.
In Madison, the emphasis shifts from lusty eating to an imaginative use of regional produce. This ideal is perhaps best captured in the robust but almost chaste simplicity of l'Eoile, a restaurant that overlooks Capitol Square and the Dane County Farmer's Market, drawing on the market for both foodstuffs and inspiration. The two chefs, Odessa Piper and Eric Rupert, are committed to using foods that are foraged or farmed in the region and to methods of food production that do not deplete the environment -- a theme with which this university town and its pioneering school of agriculture sometimes seem, in the nicest possible way, to be obsessed.
The products of 19th-century Wisconsin dairy farms must have been wonderfully diverse, full of character and the individual quirks of the cheese or butter maker. Today, most Wisconsin cheese and butter consists of uniform, standardized, commercial products. Yet in the little town of Blue Mounds, west of Madison, Willi Lehner at Bleu Mont Dairy makes what may be the only certifiably organic butter in the country, using cream skimmed off the milk from cows raised on organic pasture.
Like the goat's milk cheeses from a sister dairy, Fantome Farms, Bleu Mont's butter and cheeses are sold in the Dane County Farmer's Market, held Saturdays from late April to October. The S aturday market extends right around the domed Wisconsin Capitol building and you can easily spend a couple of hours wandering through it, chatting with purveyors who are as generous with samples as with cooking ideas. In season you'll find wild mushrooms, berries wild and cultivated (look for ground cherries in summer), garden produce of all kinds, heirloom apples and pears, butternuts and hickory nuts, Door County cherries in July and dried cherries the rest of the year, wild ramps and other greens, handmade cheeses and breads and a gorgeous abundance of flowers.
THE COAST OF MAINE, like the Pacific Northwest, is a region where seafood reigns supreme -- only here it's lobsters and clams. To start with, you'll want clams deep-fried and lobster served up as a lobster roll. These regional specialties are best eaten at a place called a shack, a road-front cabin where you stand at the window to order and carry your food to a nearby picnic table. With luck the table will have a water view but otherwise there are no frills, in keeping with the stark nature of this rock-ribbed region. One such shack is Yankee Whaler, on Route 1 between York and Ogunquit on the right side of the road heading north; there's no ocean view, but the fried clams are crisp, juicy and succulent. At the Two Lights Lobster Shack in Cape Elizabeth, off Route 77 about 10 miles south of Portland, the accommodations are a little less Spartan and the view includes the two lighthouses for which the peninsula is named. Here there's steamed lobster with drawn butter and lobster stew, as well as lobster rolls, fried clams and chowder. And at the Lobster Pound in Lincolnville Beach, on Route 1 five miles north of Camden, the view is positively glorious, across Penobscot Bay to Seven Hundred Acre Island and Islesboro in the distance. The Lobster Pound maintains a shack with outside tables at one end of the little beach and at the other a restaurant with table service where you can get full lobster and clam dinners. All these places, like many Maine coastal establishments, are closed during the winter and early spring, reopening in April and May.
Although the coast of Maine has no one food hub, Portland is a charming city in which to base yourself for ranging up and down the coast. Wander the cobblestone streets of the Old Port, the city's handsomely restored waterfront district, and stop at the Harbor Fish Market, where old-timers in rubber boots tell tales of bygone days, some of them true. With its bright red and green front on Custom House Wharf, the market is unmistakable -- and the fish impeccable, much of it right off the boat or right out of the Portland Fish Exchange. The store ships fish and live lobsters, or will steam lobsters while you wait. It also carries the products of Ducktrap River Fish Farm, a well-known producer of smoked seafood, from elegant sides of salmon to little pots of mussels and scallops.
As the heartland of Yankeedom, the Maine coast is the place for baked beans on Saturday night, especially if the beans are local yellow eyes or Jacob's cattle beans (so called because like the biblical cattle they're speckled and spotted), and if the sweetening is just a small dollop of molasses, nothing more. Regular baked bean suppers are held at the North Scarboro Grange Hall on Route 22 in Scarboro, south of Portland, and at the Orff's Corner Community Center in Waldoboro, between Portland and Camden. Down on Harpswell Neck there's a monthly bean feast on the third Saturday of June, July and August, during which the beans are baked undergound in a pit lined with stones. Church and grange suppers are where you'll find some of the best food in Maine because the cooks, even when they're in their 30's, come from a generation that still takes pride in no-nonsense Yankee food. Check the Maine Times, a statewide weekly, or local papers like Rockland's Courier-Gazette or Camden's Herald for listings of special suppers.
Since the 1970's Maine has been home to a body of drop-outs from conventional culture who moved to the state to lead a simpler, better, cheaper life. Many found economic security, if not out-and-out fortunes, in the food business. They became millers like Richard Morgan of Morgan's Mills in Union, who bought an old mill and turned it to good purpose grinding corn, rye, wheat and other grains; cheese makers like Penny and John Duncan, who make goat's milk cheddar and other cheeses at York Hill Farm in New Sharon, and entrepreneurs like Desmond FitzGerald who runs Ducktrap's smoked fish operation in Belfast. Many of their products, as well as locally grown produce, can be found in several shops along the coast, most notably the Market Basket, just south of Camden at the corner of Route 1 and Route 90 in Rockport. The store also stocks Bartlett Maine Estate Winery's fruit wines, made from Maine blueberries, pears and apples, which (especially the dry apple) are sometimes as fine as good grape varietals. More than most places these days, Maine still marks the seasons -- with shrimp in January, strawberries in June, blueberries in July and August (look especially for the tiny, flavorful wild blueberries), apples from September through October. Lobster in the summer often means shedders, soft shells that have shed their hard carapaces and not quite finished growing new ones. They're easier to eat but not nearly as meaty and flavorful as hard shells. When buying lobsters, ask if they're shedders; it is possible to get hard shells in the summer, though they are a bit more expensive.
You can be sure of getting what's good and in season at Arrow's, a restaurant in an old New England frame house on Berwick Road in Ogunquit, where Mark Gaier and Clark Frasier turn local products into elegant meals, often adding an Asian touch with lemon grass, sesame oil, peanut sauce or the like. Another chef who makes a habit of using local products imaginatively is Jonathan Chase at Jonathan's in Blue Hill. In restaurants like these, look for Pemaquid oysters, locally raised mussels (like those from Great Eastern Mussel Farms in Tenants Harbor), little bay scallops and Maine shrimp in season and veal, lamb and pheasant from Maine farms, along with the more usual local greens, berries and wild mushrooms.
 
 
 
SAMPLE MENUS, FROM ETHNIC TO NOUVELLE
THE TANG OF MAINE
 At JONATHAN'S RESTAURANT (Main Street, Blue Hill; telephone: 207-374-5226), a meal of scallops baked with ginger, curry and port, grilled loin of lamb with Gorgonzola-walnut butter and, for dessert, a compote of dried figs, cherries, pears and apricots steeped in red wine and topped with brandy-spiked whipped cream costs about $70 for two, with wine.
Dinner at ARROW'S (Berwick Road, Ogunquit; 207-361-1100), including a salad of dandelion greens with champagne vinaigrette, steamed Maine lobster with deep-fried leeks and Down East sizzlers (deep-fried pastries) with Tahitian vanilla ice cream and wild blueberry compote, costs about $95 for two, with wine.
 
 
HEARTY MILWAUKEE
 Dinner at the JOHN ERNST CAFE (600 East Ogden Avenue; 414-273-1878) might include liver dumpling soup, Wiener schnitzel served with German rye bread and, for dessert, Black Forest torte. Dinner for two costs about $50, including beer.
A three-course dinner at the BAVARIAN WURST HAUS (8310 West Appleton Avenue; 414-464-0060), including Bavarian meatballs in sour cream sauce, cured pork shank served with horseradish, sauerkraut and bread dumplings and, for dessert, strawberry torte, costs $45 for two, with beer.
At L'ETOILE (25 North Pinckney Street; 608-251-0500), spring menus include carpaccio of buffalo with goat cheese, farm-raised sturgeon pan-fried with wild leeks and butternuts, and rhubarb and hickory nut crisp with chevre ice cream. Dinner for two, with a bottle of local white wine, costs about $85.
 
 
SEATTLE CHIC
 At the DAHLIA LOUNGE (1904 Fourth Avenue; 206-682-4142), an appetizer of pan-fried oysters with sesame mayonnaise, followed by grilled salmon with hoisin sauce and pear tart with caramel sauce costs about $80 for two, with wine.
At ELLIOTT'S OYSTER HOUSE (1203 Alaskan Way, Pier 56; 206-623-4340), a three-course dinner of alder-smoked king salmon, baked kasu black cod and strawberry shortcake costs about $85 for two, with wine.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A list of sample menus on March 1 in The Sophisticated Traveler, part 2 of The Times Magazine, with an article about American food, misstated the location of one restaurant, L'Etoile. It is in Madison, Wis., not Milwaukee; the address is 25 North Pinckney Street.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Seattle: Oysters not yet on the half shell at Elliott's. (pg. 70)(Rex Rystedt for The New York Times); Ogunquit: Messrs. Gaier and Frasier at Arrow's. (Jose Axel/Contact for The New York Times)(pg. 72); At Arrow's restaurant, in Ogunquit, Me., brandade is served on a cornmeal cake (top); in Belfast, scallops are smoked at Duck Trap River Fish Farm. (Jose Azel/Contact for The New York Times)(pg. 67); At the Dahlia Lounge, Seattle, spaghetti with clam sauce, pancetta and chilis is a specialty of the chef, Tom Douglas. (pg. 68)(Rex Rystedt for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (95%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (95%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA RIVER CARBONATES (56%); INTERNATIONAL PACIFIC HALIBUT COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL PACIFIC HALIBUT COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (95%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (95%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FOOD; NYTRAVEL FISHES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (70%); ETHNICITY (57%); 

PERSON: JENKINS, NANCY HARMON

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



58 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1992

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1697 words

HEADLINE: Residents Have One Word for Income Tax: Help!

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
AS people begin to sit down with their state income tax forms and instructions, they may understand why the legislature is already considering measures to repair the new tax.
One section of the manual warns, "Caution: Rounding off to whole dollars may affect the amounts of your personal exemption, and your personal tax credit." It certainly can, said an accountant in Stamford, Michael S. Kanter. A married couple with joint income of $30,000 face a tax bill of $22.41. But if they rounded off a few items, and their adjusted gross income worked out to $30,001, their tax bill would jump to $58.74. 
 "That's a pretty sizable reduction in credit built into these tables," Mr. Kanter said.
The income tax was passed in part to take some of the tax burden off business and stimulate the economy, and it has certainly stimulated one section of the economy. The district manager for H. & R. Block in New Haven, Mattie Hlywa, said her office had 810 more clients during the first week of February than during the same period in 1991.
"People are coming in in droves," Ms. Hlywa said. "And close to 100 percent are getting refunds -- which is no surprise, because the people who owe taxes are going to wait."
But most tax experts caution that people should not wait until the last minute, since they will be dealing with a new process that is still being worked out.
"What's mind boggling is the number of forms," lamented Frederick F. Robinson Jr., an accountant in Danbury. "Every size, every color."
Some tax preparers say the new forms are hard to read. Others complain they have been unable to get forms. And some of the forms they have received have mistakes, they say.
The problem is particularly acute for offices that are doing tax calculations on computers, because the tax-preparation programs, created by private companies based on state instructions, are being released in one version after another, each a little more sophisticated than the last.
"We've had more software updates this year than we did in the last five years combined," said Joseph F. Fazzalaro of Fazzalaro, Flay & Company, a tax-preparation concern in Hartford. "We're holding a dozen returns in the office where we have to calculate the estimated tax payments for 1992, and the latest version of the software can't do it yet."
A spokesman for the State Department of Revenue Services, A. J. Janschewitz, said, "This has been a real verification of Murphy's Law."
For instance, the department ordered 175,000 copies of a form for people who live out of state or lived in Connecticut only part of the year. The forms were eight inches wide, but the printer attached envelopes that were seven inches wide.
"It threw us about a month behind schedule, when we had to send them back for the right envelope," Mr. Janschewitz said.
The forms were also supposed to be available at libraries, town halls and post offices, but some postmasters refused to accept delivery from United Parcel Service, the low bidder on the delivery contract, citing a regulation that prohibits them from accepting mail not delivered by the Postal Service.
Mr. Janschewitz noted his department was given only 38 days to implement a complete overhaul of the state tax system. He said that New Jersey, the last state to implement an income tax, 15 years ago, could only offer this advice, "Good luck, you'll need it." Given the deadline, he said, things have worked out well.
 
'No Clear Pattern of Errors'
 "A lot more has gone right than wrong," Mr. Janschewitz said. "If there hadn't been some little glitches, I'd be looking over my shoulder, waiting for the big hammer to fall."
Of the first 20,000 returns in to the department by the first week of February, Mr. Janschewitz said, "there was no clear pattern of errors, which leads us to believe people at least understand the forms."
The tax department estimates at least 1.6 million people must file returns this year: single people who make $12,000 or more a year, heads of household who make $19,000 a year or more and married couples with combined incomes of $24,000 a year or more. State tax officials advise people to complete their Federal tax forms before they undertake their state returns, because the adjusted gross income that is subject to tax on the Connecticut form comes off the Federal return.
Those who have spent too many long nights trying to get through their Federal returns and cannot finish their Connecticut forms in time can receive an automatic extension. But late filers will be assessed a penalty of 10 percent of the tax they owe plus interest of 1.25 percent a month on any balance due.
The first major glitch discovered in the tax forms was brought to light by Mr. Kanter of Stamford, who found the forms giving people who have out-of-state income more credit than the law allows. For instance, if a married couple have an income of $70,000, but one spouse earns $50,000 of that in New York City, the tax the couple pays to New York City and State would total $975. The forms allow full credit for that amount. But under the law the couple should get a credit of only $745, or 71 percent of the $1,050 they would owe if all the money were earned in Connecticut, because 71 percent of the income is taxed out of state.
Under the law the couple owes Connecticut a tax of $305; following the instructions in the forms, which the tax department has hastened to repair, their bill would be $75.
 
'They Don't Make That Clear'
 Mr. Kanter said other intricacies are causing problems with the Connecticut tax. For instance, if someone has $20,000 of income in Connecticut, $50,000 of income from New York and a $17,000 loss on a rental property in Massachusetts, his Federal adjusted gross income would be $53,000, and if he is getting credit for income taxed by another state, he could determine from the ambiguous wording of the instructions that he owes tax on only $3,000, which, because of credits, would leave him with no tax bill.
But since 71 percent of the person's income is earned out of state, he would get a 71 percent credit on his $53,000 adjusted gross income, Mr. Kanter said, and would owe Connecticut $47.
"They don't make that clear in the instructions," Mr. Kanter said.
Mr. Janschewitz said the tax department has been using innovative methods to get information out to tax preparers and the public. The department can be reached through several electronic mail systems; replies will be phoned, mailed or transmitted electronically. Information is also accessible on General Electric's computer network for small businesses.
The tax department has extended the hours of its tax help phone line -- (800) 382-9463 toll free or 297-5742 in the Hartford area. Taxpayers may call from 8:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. on weekdays, until 8 P.M. on Thursdays and 9 A.M. to 1 P.M. on Saturdays. About 40 people are answering the phones.
The director of taxpayer services at the department, Elaine M. Leon, said her unit has been receiving about 60,000 calls a month. Since October it has logged more calls than the 220,000 it fielded in the entire 1991 fiscal year, she said.
Ms. Leon said the phone system is being upgraded. The 24-line capacity is being doubled, she said, and a new system is being installed to enable people to call 24 hours a day and use touch-tone buttons to hear recorded messages on common tax problems. When the system is installed, people expecting refunds will be able to find out how quickly their returns are progressing.
Ms. Leon said she has fashioned a script to handle the most common questions and trained her staff members during evening and weekend sessions, so they can all be at the phones during posted hours.
 
 
 
ANSWERS TO SOME QUESTIONS THAT TAXPAYERS ARE ASKING
 HERE are some of the questions most often asked by callers to the Department of Revenue Services, and the answers, as supplied by the director of taxpayer services, Elaine M. Leon.
Q. Is there still a separate tax on capital gains, dividends and interest?
A. Yes, for 1991 but not for 1992. The tax rate for all income climbs from 1.5 percent in 1991 to 4.5 percent next year.
Q. Is Social Security and pension income taxable?
A. Basically the Connecticut income tax mirrors the Federal Government's. If it's taxed at the Federal level, it's probably taxed in Connecticut.
Q. Do I pay taxes on my income from the military?
A. Only if you are considered a resident of the state, in which case you would pay even if you are stationed somewhere other than Connecticut. (The tax manual has information on how to determine your state of residence.) But if someone in the military, or that person's spouse, has a non-military job in Connecticut, that portion of income is taxed.
Q. I made no estimated payments in 1991, so am I going to be penalized?
A. No penalties will be assessed if the tax due is paid by April 15, 1992, but there will be for 1992. Anyone with more than $1,000 of taxable income and no withholding must make quarterly payments.
Q. My income varies, so how do I estimate payments?
A. The Federal Government assesses no penalties if you have paid at least 90 percent of your tax bill or 100 percent of your prior year tax. Connecticut law is stricter -- you must prepay at least 100 percent of your current tax bill or 100 percent of your prior year tax.
Q. I live in Maine but draw a pension from a former employer in Connecticut. Do I owe tax?
A. No, but people living in Connecticut drawing a pension from another state probably owe tax on it.
Q. I spend part of the year in Florida and part in Connecticut. Where do I pay tax?
A. If you maintain a home here and spend more than 183 days a year in Connecticut, you pay the income tax.
Q. Can I use a different filing status for my Federal and state returns?
A. In most cases the filing status -- single, married, head of household and so on -- must be the same. The only exception is that married couples who qualify to file a joint return -- and would be liable for capital gains, dividends and interest tax if they do -- must file a joint return.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (56%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (94%); INCOME TAX (92%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); TAX PREPARATION SOFTWARE (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A; JANSCHEWITZ, A J MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992



59 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9
 
MORE RIGHTS IN SAUDI ARABIA
Sweeping decrees touching everything from royal succession to personal privacy were announced by King Fahd. The changes, including the country's first Constitution, exceeded expectations. A1
 
A HUSH IN THE JEWISH LOBBY
The blizzard of letters and faxes by Jewish organizations on the issue of loan guarantees to Israel has slowed to a light flurry as the problem becomes more fraught with political complications. A1 

ANOTHER VOTE FOR SOVEREIGNTY
Yugoslavia's dissolution seemed more certain as a large number of voters turned out to cast ballots in favor of independence for the republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A3
 
TERRORISM COURT PROPOSED
King Hassan II of Morocco has proposed an international court for terrorism cases so two Libyans accused of blowing up airliners can be tried "on neutral ground." A7
 
ACCUSATIONS AGAINST IRAQ
Using such evidence as exhumed bodies and secret death lists, a new report concludes that there is strong evidence that Iraq committed crimes against humanity in killing large numbers of Kurds. A6
 
ROOMS GALORE AT THE INNS
Shanghai Journal: Hotels run by foreigners have attentive service and reasonable rates. They're only lacking one essential: guests. A4
 
BROKEN PROMISES TO ETHIOPIA
The United States finds itself unable to deliver assistance it promised to Ethiopia as an investment in its budding democracy. A8
 
REVOLUTION OF A REVOLUTIONARY
Once an exiled revolutionary, Jaime Paz Zamora, the President of Bolivia, is distinctly pro-American today, and he displays a strong bent toward capitalism. A9
 
A PLEA FROM POLAND
Prime Minister Jan Olszewski is appealing to the International Monetary Fund for more latitude as Poland makes its tough transition to a market economy. A9
 
'EARTH INCREMENTS' SUGGESTED
A proposal for giving poor countries billions of dollars to help development without damage to the environment will be made at the U.N. A3
 
The death toll in an Arab cafe whose roof collapsed rose to 23. A6
 
As a bomb was defused in London, the I.R.A. vowed more violence. A2
 
National A10-13, B8-9
 
JOLT TO ENERGY PRODUCERS
The recent collapse of natural gas prices has sent shudders through the weakened oil and gas industry. Layoffs are rising, drilling is declining, investments are moving overseas, and hundreds of smaller companies are going out of business. A1
 
SENATOR OUT OF CAMPAIGN
Senator Brock Adams, Democrat of Washington, abandoned his re-election campaign after a newspaper published allegations of sexual misconduct. A1
 
BLACKS AND THE PRIMARIES
Many black voters and officials in the South said they were disappointed there was no black Presidential candidate emphasizing issues of importance to them, or pushing the debate in that direction. A1
 
BUSH'S ANXIOUS COURTSHIP
President Bush swept through Georgia urging Republican primary voters to reject the politics of protest and "send this President back for four more years." A12
 
TARGETS: CLINTON, TSONGAS
Bill Clinton and Paul Tsongas came under fire again as the Democratic candidates debated, twice in one day. A12
 
None of the above seemed to be leading in Denver. A13
 
NEW INQUIRY ON AIDS EXPERT
Federal officials said Robert Gallo, the researcher under fire over his claims about the discovery of the virus that causes AIDS, was the subject of a new inquiry on charges of perjury and patent fraud. B9
 
DISCOVERING THE PLOWSHARES
A new company in Monrovia, Calif., is trying to retool an economy that has boomed with war and slumped with peace. While Federal Government stays its distance, local officials around the country are actively nurturing similar companies. B8
 
INVESTORS HURT IN TRADES
Many brokers received payments for completing trades of stocks listed on the leading stock exchanges at terms slightly less favorable to investors. D1
 
FROM CLOSET TO FRONT RACK
Led by a new generation of lesbians and gay men who view their homosexuality as a matter of pride rather than privacy, the gay press is claiming a place in the mainstream. A1
 
CHANGING CHARITIES
The forced resignation of the longtime president of United Way of America may give competing charitable federations an opening to break United Way's near-monopoly on giving in the workplace. A10
 
BEATING TRIAL TO BEGIN
One year and 2,000 prospective jurors later, the beating trial of a Los Angeles motorist moved toward opening arguments. B8
 
A site was chosen for a new Chicago airport. B8
 
Philadelphia Journal: Coat for the homeless is shelter, too. A10
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
DYING AT HOME
In recent years, more and more terminally ill patients have been choosing to die at home, rejecting what they see as the futility and indignity of hospitals. But the toll is also high on their family and friends who must watch them die. A1
 
SAFETY PLAN FOR SCHOOLS
Mayor Dinkins announced a $28 million program to enhance security at the 40 most dangerous public high schools and middle schools in New York. The action came less than a week after two students were shot to death in a Brooklyn high school.A1
 
Business Digest,D1
 
Sports C1-9
 
Baseball: The game's best buys. C1
 Thomas provides money's worth. C4
Basketball: Nets beat Knicks, 90-75. C1
 San Diego St. next for Tarkanian? C2
 Big Eight seems toughest. C2
 Bird is back in style. C7
Column: Berkow on Dunston. C5
Golf: Couples captures playoff. C7
Hockey: Rangers trounce Whalers. C1
Swimming: World record for Stanford freshman. C5
 
Obituaries B12
 
Stuart Nash Scott, prominent corporate lawyer
Dwight L. Bolinger, linguistic expert and scholar of the Spanish language
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
The fake Diego Giacomettis. C11
 
Music: For Rossini's 200th birthday. C11
 Vienna Philharmonic. C11
Word and Image:
"Today" with longer reports. C14
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials A14
 
 Helping the homeless.
 Undermine the rules?
 Women's work.
 Fearing North Korea.
 
Letters A14
 
Leslie H. Gelb: Vance, a Nobel life. A15
William Safire: Humiliating Israel. A15
John Allen Paulos: Tsongkerclintkinbro wins. A15
R. Taggart Murphy: Out of control. A15
Henry Kaufman: Delay debate on the economy. A15

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arabs mourn 23 who were killed in a roof collapse. A6 (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); ETHIOPIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); POLAND (92%); BOLIVIA (79%); MOROCCO (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); ETHIOPIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); POLAND (92%); BOLIVIA (79%); MOROCCO (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); TERRORISM (74%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (74%); LOBBYING (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); MISCONDUCT (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (68%); NATURAL GAS (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (65%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (60%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



60 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1745 words

HEADLINE: Uneasy Debate For Jews in U.S. On Loans Issue

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1

 BODY:
When the issue of new loan guarantees for Israel first came before Congress last September, American Jewish groups organized a national lobbying campaign replete with faxes, letter-writing and thousands of volunteers bused into Washington to press the Israeli case with lawmakers.
But when the issue came up again recently after being postponed for four months, lobbying by Jewish organizations on Israel's behalf was so low-key it was almost invisible. 
 Some Congressional Democratic leaders overseeing foreign aid felt comfortable publicly criticizing Israeli settlement practices and siding with the Bush Administration in demanding a freeze on building in the West Bank as condition for the loan guarantees. Some Administration officials say that aside from a few muted statements and some quiet letter-writing, they are struck more by what Jewish organizations have not been saying than what they have been saying.
 
Support, and Uncertainty
 Interviews with a wide spectrum of Jews from around the country find that while they still strongly support the loan guarantees, they are uncertain of how to go about pressing the case.
For them the issue has become complicated if not traumatic. In part this is because President Bush's attack on Jewish lobbying on the issue last September intimidated many American Jews and made leaders of Jewish organizations wary of confronting Mr. Bush for fear that he would again take his case to the American public.
In part, it is also because pushing aggressively in public for loan guarantees for Israel at a time of deep recession in America increasingly seems impolitic. Finally, because President Bush has decided recently to condition the loan guarantees on Israel's freezing its settlements, and because Israel rejects such linkage, many American Jews find themselves in the position they hate most: having to choose between policies of their own Government and policies of the Israeli Government. A result has been debate and mixed emotions where there was once near-unanimity.
"What I am finding when I travel around the country is American Jews who feel caught between a rock and a hard place," said David A. Harris, executive vice president of the American Jewish Committee. "People are not fully happy with some of the ways Israel is behaving, but they don't have confidence in the script being written by the Administration either."
 
'It Scares Us'
 Mr. Harris added: "We are not only missing the violins in the relationship, we are missing the whole orchestra. What you have here are two countries that have so much in common but are increasingly losing sight of it. It worries us. It troubles us. It scares us, because many of us can see what happens down the road if this continues."
For many American Jews, the complex sentiment is being echoed: Jews are neither comfortable with some of the recent actions of the Israeli Prime Minister, Yitzhak Shamir, nor trusting of the motives of President Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d.
"I feel that basically what Bush and Baker are doing is right," said Sally R. Gilbert, director of the Jewish lecture series in El Paso. "They are holding up a mirror to Israel, saying 'take a look at yourself,' and those of us who want to see Israel with a healthy society and a healthy economy think it is the kick they need to build a better society.
"But on a gut level, I just don't trust Bush and Baker," she added. "I don't know where they are coming from. I can't put my finger on it, but you read their body language and you feel something is missing. It is like you believe in the prescription, but you don't trust the doctor."
The proposed $10 billion in loan guarantees over five years would help Israel settle Jewish emigres from the former Soviet Union by enabling the Israeli Government to borrow money from private banks at interest rates lower than it would normally be able to obtain. Israel would be obligated to repay all the loans, but the United States, as the guarantor, would by law have to set aside money that would be used in the event of an Israeli default; the amount is expected to be roughly $300 million under a formula used by the Office of Management and Budget.
It is clear now that for many American Jews, nothing did more to undermine trust in President Bush than his Sept. 12 news conference, which was called to counter pressure from pro-Israeli lobbyists.
Referring to those who wanted to push the loan guarantee issue through despite his appeal for a delay, Mr. Bush said, "I am up against some powerful political forces, but I owe it to the American people to tell them how strongly I feel" about deferring the loan guarantee issue until after Arab-Israeli peace talks got under way in Madrid last fall.
"We're up against very strong and effective groups that go up to the Hill," Mr. Bush said. "I heard today there was something like a thousand lobbyists on the Hill working the other side of the question. We've got one lonely little guy down here doing it. I am going to stand for what I believe here. And I believe the American people will be with me."
After Mr. Bush's remarks provoked a flood of supportive mail to the White House, much of it anti-Semitic, he apologized to leaders of Jewish organizations for having stirred such feelings, which he said he did not intend.
Nevertheless, said Steven M. Cohen, professor of sociology at Queens College and an expert on American Jewish public opinion: "That press conference has become part of American Jewish lore. When the President suggests that lobbying on behalf of Israel is an act of disloyalty to the United States and is illegitimate -- and whatever Bush said that is what Jews heard -- it hurts and makes Jews feel vulnerable."
That lurking fear that the President would, if pressed hard enough, be prepared to make aid to Israel a national issue definitely accounts for some of the lower-key lobbying by Jewish groups since September, said Mr. Cohen.
"People know that it is still out there -- this potential for challenging the legitimacy for Jewish political activity on behalf of Israel -- and they don't want to revive it," Mr. Cohen said.
A very prominent Jewish lobbyist in Washington, who asked not to be identified by name, was more blunt. "I think it was a scary incident." he said, "And there are people who are still convinced that it was a calculated effort to intimidate the Jewish community -- and it worked."
The choice not to confront the President has not come easily and it has been accompanied by a lot of resentment of the Administration percolating just beneath the surface that could erupt at any time.
"There is a great deal of anger among Jews in America about how the Administration is handling things," said Carol Nelkin, a Houston lawyer active in local Jewish causes.
"It seems to me that whether or not you are in favor of settlements or stopping them," she said, "the tone of the Administration is one that seems hostile to Israel, beyond what is necessary, and that is something I take personally."
 
Debate Is Recast
 Another element shaping the mood is the fact that Mr. Bush has recast the debate. In September, it appeared that the issue was whether or not to grant loan guarantees, period. Now the debate is whether to grant loan guarantees linked to a freeze on Israeli settlements, as Mr. Bush wants, or not linked to such a freeze. Because Jews are deeply divided on the settlements question, the message to Washington has become somewhat blurred.
The overwhelming majority of American Jewish organizations, like the Israeli public itself, believes that a certain amount of settlements are justified in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, for security or nationalist reasons. And some leaders, like Shoshana S. Cardin, chairwoman of the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations, take the position: "We don't accept linkage of the loan guarantee to settlements. We refuse political linkage."
Others argue, however, that whether or not one accepts linkage is now irrelevant: President Bush has made the link and therefore Israel and its friends have to make a choice.
"What you find in our community today is a growing opposition to settlements, not so much on ideological grounds, but on logical grounds," said Mark B. Rotenberg, a Minneapolis lawyer active in local Jewish causes. "Whatever you feel about settlements, it just doesn't make sense to a lot of people for Israel to risk the loan guarantees, and risk an erosion in its relationship with the United States, just to build one more settlement."
Still others, though, believe that President Bush has actually done Israel a favor by finally demanding that its Government halt a settlement policy that they believe is harmful to the chances for peace with the Arabs.
David W. Belin, a Des Moines lawyer who runs a national organization to counter Jews' marrying outside their faith, said: "Israel cannot remain a democracy holding territories occupied by large amounts of Arabs. If it were not for the loan guarantee issue, new settlements would be going through like an express train. At least one good thing about the loan guarantee issue is that it is going to finally force a real debate on settlements in Israel."
Related to this is an increasing feeling among many American Jews that since Israel is going to hold an election June 23, and Mr. Shamir will square off against the more dovish Labor Party leader, Yitzhak Rabin, Israelis will in effect be voting on whether they want loan guarantees or settlements, so let them decide. Edgar M. Bronfman, president of the World Jewish Congress, said, "We should hold back and hear what the Israelis have to say."
Finally, another big change since September has been the combination of the end of the cold war and the onset of a deep recession, making foreign aid the most unpopular issue on Capitol Hill.
"Look, there is a certain turning inward all over the country," said Wayne L. Feinstein, executive vice president of the San Francisco Jewish Federation. "Our community is very aware of the AIDS crisis. You can't walk out of your office here for lunch without bumping into homeless people. The economic environment now for foreign aid is very hostile. Without a President really ready to explain to the American people why loan guarantees are in their interests, and won't really cost taxpayers anything, it is very hard to fight this environment."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ISRAEL; MIDDLE EAST ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOVIET JEWS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS (OCCUPIED TERRITORIES); CREDIT; HOUSING ; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; PUBLIC OPINION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS JEWS & JUDAISM (95%); LOBBYING (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (61%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (61%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



61 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The South;
Blacks Feel Like Wallflowers As No Candidates Woo Them

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SPARTA, Ga., Feb. 29

 BODY:
With only days to go before the Georgia Presidential primary, Marvin E. Lewis, who is black and is the superintendent of schools in rural Hancock County, had seen and felt little indication that there was a campaign going on.
Hardly any campaign signs have sprouted along the lonely, bumpy roads of this central Georgia county, which has a population that is 80 percent black. 
 Only a few local black officials, like Betty Hill, the chairwoman of the county commission, have received calls soliciting their support, and those have been from the Atlanta headquarters of Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas. But few others here have heard or seen anything locally to suggest the nation is in the midst of picking candidates for its highest office.
 
Missing a Black Candidate
 "At this point no one has contacted the black voters in Hancock County, or the white voters either, for that matter," Mr. Lewis said. He conceded that with a population of 10,000, the county was not likely to be a top priority for candidates, but, he added, "I do think there would be more interest here and more attention given if there was a black candidate in the race."
Mr. Lewis's views echoed those of many black voters and officials interviewed across the South recently. They tend to be disappointed that there is no black candidate emphasizing issues of importance to them, or pushing the debate in that direction. And among the five Democratic contenders, they tend to find Mr. Clinton the most appealing.
The concerns of blacks loom large now because black voters are a crucial force in a series of Southern primary contests that could prove to be pivotal in the Presidential campaign.
In Georgia and other Southern states, blacks make up 25 percent to 30 percent of the population and have become an even larger percentage of those who vote in Democratic primaries. After the Georgia balloting on Tuesday, primaries will be held in South Carolina on March 7, and on March 10 in Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee and Texas.
Black voters in the 1984 and 1988 Presidential races coalesced not only around a black candidate, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, but also around concerns like affirmative action, spending on social programs, civil rights, urban problems and Medicaid and Medicare, among others. These issues have come to represent what many define loosely as a "black agenda," and while whites are affected by them as well, many analysts say that blacks have a much greater interest in having them discussed by Presidential candidates.
This year, Mr. Jackson is on the sidelines, and there is no similar figure to whom black voters can automatically turn. Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia was in the race early but pulled out. As they look at the current field, many blacks are ambivalent about what they see.
Two farm-state Senators, Tom Harkin of Iowa and Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, have few black constituents. Two former elected officials, Paul E. Tsongas, once a Senator from Massachusetts, and Edmund G. Brown Jr., once the Governor of California, have records suggesting a potential to appeal to blacks, but they have yet to court those voters in the South.
And there is a Southern Governor, Mr. Clinton, whose easy and practiced manner of campaigning is solicitous of black voters and feels familiar to them but who supports the death penalty, which many blacks and major civil rights organizations oppose as disproportionately meted out to black offenders. Mr. Clinton has also long been associated with the Democratic Leadership Council, which has been accused by some Democrats, including Mr. Jackson and the national party chairman, Ronald H. Brown, of being antagonistic toward growing black influence in the party.
 
A 'Narrow Focus'
 From his vantage point as a non-candidate who has not yet endorsed any of the Democratic hopefuls, Mr. Jackson said in an interview that he is troubled by the "narrow focus" of the Democrats. They are concentrating on winning endorsements from black officials, he said, and doing little "bottom-up" campaigning that would take them to places like Hancock County to highlight the problems of such poor rural communities.
"They seem to be working on media messages and I hear more about how their campaigns are being packaged," said Mr. Jackson, who won six Southern states in 1988 and placed second in two others. "They are gripped by professional handlers and focus groups and polls. This takes away passion."
Mr. Jackson and others predict that black turnout in this year's primaries is likely to be lower than in previous years. David Bositis, a senior researcher with the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a Washington research organization that focuses on issues of importance to black voters, agreed, but added that both interest and turnout was likely to pick up in the general election in November. He said black voters by the fall would be focusing on the results of redistricting, which was likely to add new black Congressional districts in Georgia, Alabama, North Carolina and South Carolina.
 
Endorsements for Clinton
 In Mississippi it is the support of Representative Mike Espy, the state's only black Congressman, that is giving Mr. Clinton an edge and making him the candidate with the only sharply etched profile among black voters in the state. Ed Cole, the chairman of the Mississippi Democratic Party, said that Mr. Clinton's being from the South was a significant factor among black voters but that there were other factors in his favor as well.
"Clinton has good general support among white Democrats here and there is the feeling that he can pull some whites back to the party," said Mr. Cole, who is black. "But at the same time his record suggests that he has an appreciation for the way to go about bringing blacks and whites together."
In Georgia in particular, Mr. Clinton's array of endorsements has scared away some candidates who might otherwise have sought the black vote, said State Representative Michael Thurmond, a black who supports Mr. Tsongas. Mr. Clinton has been endorsed by Mayor Maynard Jackson of Atlanta, former Mayor Andrew Young and Representative John Lewis.
Mr. Thurmond said the absence of Mr. Jackson or another black candidate was causing many black voters to become "more discerning and analytical." This trend, he said, will help Mr. Tsongas as the campaign moves to more industrialized states with significant black populations, because he discusses the rebuilding of industry.
State Representative Mable Thomas, who is supporting Senator Kerrey in the Georgia primary, acknowledged that this year's contest seemed "lackluster" after the excitement of having Mr. Jackson in the two previous races. She said, "Few among black voters can say this year of any of the candidates, 'I know him,' as they could with Jackson."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pivotal Region, Pivotal Voters" -- Black voter turnout in the 1988 Democratic primaries in the South far exceeded the percentage of black people in the total population. But this year, with Jesse Jackson on the sidelines, candidates are wondering whether blacks will turn out in such numbers, and where their votes will go. Chart compares number of black voters as a percentage of Democratic primary voters with number of black people as a percentage of total 1990 population in Southern states. (Sources: Polls conducted by The New York Times and CBS News; Census Bureau) (pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTHERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; BLACKS (IN US); ELECTION ISSUES; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RURAL SCHOOLS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); MEDICAID (50%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); HARKIN, TOM (SEN); KERREY, BOB (SEN); TSONGAS, PAUL E ; BROWN, EDMUND G JR; JACKSON, JESSE L (REV) JESSE JACKSON (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); TOM HARKIN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



62 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: COLLAPSE IN PRICES FOR NATURAL GAS SHAKES PRODUCERS

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, March 1

 BODY:
The collapse of natural gas prices in the last three months, to the lowest winter level in more than a decade, is giving the nation's weakened oil and gas industry its worst jolt since oil prices fell by more than half in early 1986.
Many giant companies have announced layoffs or reduced spending for new wells, and hundreds of smaller companies, many of them family-run, are going out of business. As oil companies increase their investments overseas, where costs are lower and potential discoveries more promising, the nation's reliance on imported energy increases. 
 And the lower prices have scarcely benefited residential customers. Retail prices have not fallen, and only big manufacturers and electric utilities that burn gas have enjoyed large savings, consumer groups say.
 
A Postwar Ebb
 By some measures, activity in the domestic oil and gas industry is at its lowest ebb since the Administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt. Warm weather and other factors have caused a glut that has depressed prices and made costly new drilling unprofitable.
Many industry executives and financial analysts say the number of workers pared from oil and gas production in the United States since January 1982, the peak month of the last drilling boom, may exceed 400,000 by year-end -- far more than the jobs likely to have been cut by the American auto industry in the same period.
Contracts to supply natural gas for March delivery are at $1.25 for 1,000 cubic feet, up about 20 cents from the February contract but down from $2.30 for the October contract and from $1.65 in March 1991. Compared with the highest recorded monthly price, $3.50 in February 1982, prices have fallen by a yearly average of more than 7 percent in the last 10 years.
 
Disappointing Winter
 Gas producers who count on the winter months to generate their biggest sales have seen prices drop even below the low point of last summer, an extraordinary development in the winter, when demand peaks.
Demand for natural gas has actually risen in the last few years -- to about 25 percent of the nation's total energy supply -- as gas became cheaper to burn than fuel oil for industrial users. But not necessarily for consumers, who use gas mainly for heating and cooking.
Edwin S. Rothschild, the energy policy director at Consumer Action, a consumer research organization in Washington, said large manufacturers and electric utilities that burn gas could bargain directly with producers for large-volume purchases and could choose between gas or oil fuel supplies, whichever was less costly.
But residential customers and owners of small businesses, with no comparable bargaining power, continue to pay high prices of $6 or more for 1,000 cubic feet of gas, he said.
Carol Freedenthal, the president of the Jofree Corporation, a consulting firm in Houston whose clients are mainly natural-gas producers, said, "The homeowner and residential customers, the largest users of natural gas, are not getting the benefit" of lower prices.
The worsening struggle for survival faced by legions of independent producers may prove crucial for the nation's future output of oil and natural gas. Most operate in Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas, the states that produce 80 percent of domestic natural gas.
According to the Independent Petroleum Association of America, a trade group in Washington, independents produce about 60 percent of the natural gas and 40 percent of the oil in the continental United States, even though most have 20 or fewer employees.
"It would be a disaster for the country for this small producing segment of the industry to be driven out of business by lower prices," Mr. Rothschild said. "Natural gas is too important a fuel. It helps reduce our dependence on foreign oil."
And dependence on oil imports is a big economic burden. Payments for imported oil amounted to $37.2 billion last year, or more than half of the nation's $66.2 billion trade deficit.
 
Cutbacks by the Majors
 The retreat from domestic oil and gas fields comes after big companies bet heavily on natural gas to support their domestic operations after the oil-price debacle six years ago. Cutbacks have been announced by companies including Mobil, Chevron, ARCO and Phillips Petroleum, and by large independents like Oryx Energy, Maxus Energy and Anadarko Petroleum.
ARCO, the nation's eighth-largest oil company, pared its work force by 2,100 jobs in August, including 900 from its operations in the continental United States, leaving a total work force of 22,000. More recently, ARCO said that for the first time it would spend more to explore and develop reserves in foreign countries than in the continental states.
"Lower gas prices are one reason, but the other is that there just aren't the opportunities for exploration that there once were" in the United States, said Robert E. Wycoff, the president and chief operating officer of ARCO. At the same time, the demise of Soviet-led Communism opened up several areas, including Syria, Yemen and Eastern Europe, as well as Russia, to exploration by Western companies.
When Maxus Energy said last month that it would cut its 1992 spending on domestic drilling by half, to $45 million, the company added that it was continuing to expand overseas drilling investments in 14 countries, up from 6 countries four years ago. Its spending on international projects will rise at least 20 percent this year, to $150 million.
"While jobs are being eliminated in North America, we will be adding new positions in international" operations, Charles L. Blackburn, the chairman and chief executive of Maxus, said at the time.
The natural-gas supply glut was caused by many factors. Many big oil companies have kept gas flowing at high rates in the last two years to generate cash from domestic gas fields to invest in more promising oil and gas fields abroad.
Tax incentives approved by Congress in recent years have also raised output. Companies producing gas from underground coal layers, mainly in northwestern New Mexico and northern Alabama, and from dense rock formations called tight sands in West Texas and other sites, are eligible for tax credits that make gas sales profitable even if prices fall below $1. The credits amount to as much as 90 cents per 1,000 cubic feet of gas produced through the year 2002 from wells drilled before the end of this year.
 
New Drilling Opportunities
 In addition, a Reagan Administration policy that opened hundreds of Government-owned tracts in the Gulf of Mexico to drillers in 1984 and 1985 has led to rising sales of offshore gas in the last few years. Hundreds of wells developed after those lease sales are now in full production.
Leaps in drilling technology have lowered exploration costs and sharpened the eye of oil and gas explorers. High-speed computers are charting three-dimensional maps of drilling prospects by tracking sound waves reflected from rock layers thousands of feet underground.
While the diversified oil giants and most major independent producers have adjusted to the drop in natural-gas revenues, smaller independents are struggling. Mr. Freedenthal of Jofree, the Houston consulting firm, said small producers were ripe for a shakeout; the industry had become bloated during its last boom, he said, and it has since been gradually deregulated.
The Independent Petroleum Association now has about 8,000 members, down from 20,000 in the early 1980's. As natural gas operators are shunned by Wall Street, banks and other sources of financing, the independents must pay for drilling programs mainly from their shrinking revenues. The price collapse has caused many to sharply curtail or halt their drilling efforts.
 
Restricting Some Sales
 A few big independents that have low debt and adequate cash reserves have restricted their gas sales rather than sell at low prices. Robert J. Allison, the chief executive of Anadarko Petroleum, said the Houston-based independent company had reduced its planned sales of 600,000 cubic feet a day in February by 25 percent because of low gas prices. Last week, the company went even further, reducing its planned sales for March by nearly half.
"I'm shocked and amazed at people who will sell all of their gas regardless of price," Mr. Allison said. "A lot of people are losing money on every thousand cubic feet of gas they sell," he added, referring mainly to the big energy companies.
The purging of small independents has partly come from growing competition that followed the gradual deregulation in natural gas markets during the 1980's.
Bigger companies, with superior exploration technology and lower operating costs, are able to earn profits from lower natural gas and oil prices, compared with the small independents.
The number of rigs exploring for oil and gas in the United States fell to 653 in the last week of January, the lowest postwar level recorded by Baker Hughes Inc., the Houston-based oilfield service company. The total was little changed last week, at 673, up 6 from the week before. Analysts say the average weekly rig count for 1992 could drop below 735, or well below the postwar-low average of 861 rigs set in 1991.
The seismic crew count, a barometer of future drilling activity that measures the number of teams searching for reserves in the United States, has fallen to new monthly lows in each of the last five months. The total was 79 in January, compared with a peak of 744 crews in September 1981, according to the Society of Exploration Geophysicists in Tulsa.
 
Growing Vulnerability
 Many oil executives continue to warn that the nation is becoming more vulnerable to future oil or gas shortages. The total number of wells drilled in 1991 dropped to 27,000, or less than a third of the 70,000 drilled as recently as 1985. Imported oil amounted to 40 percent of total United States supplies last year. The figure was 42 percent in January, and most energy analysts expect it to rise when the economy picks up.
For now, worries in Washington about United States energy security have waned since the military defeat of Iraq last year. To some analysts, the Persian Gulf war summed up the Government's unstated energy policy, which they see as defending shipments of imported oil -- by force, if necessary.
"That was our energy policy -- Desert Storm," said Kevin Simpson, an analyst with Wertheim Schroder & Company.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "On the Decline" shows prices for new gas contracts in dollars for each million British thermal unit (B.T.U.), 1968 - 1990 (Source: Jofree Corporation); "Cutting Back" shows yearly employment in oil and gas exploration and production in the US, 1982 - January 1992. (Source: Bureau of labor Statistics) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); PRICES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; WEATHER OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (92%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (88%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C EDWIN S ROTHSCHILD (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



63 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Ethiopia Unable to Get U.S. Aid Despite Reforms

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia, Feb. 26

 BODY:
After encouraging the new Ethiopian Government to embark on the country's first effort at democracy and offering economic aid if it went ahead with political liberalization, the United States finds itself unable to deliver the promised assistance.
Economic aid to Ethiopia, which was allied with the Soviet Union for more than a decade but with which the United States previously had close ties, has become a victim of the American Presidential campaign, say American officials here and in Washington. 
 The officials here say they understand the election-year hostility to foreign aid, but are perplexed by the inability to deliver the comparatively small amount of $60 million for economic and democracy projects intended to get one of Africa's poorest countries on its feet.
Without economic aid to help revive its agriculture and industry, Ethiopia will continue to be dependent on the world for food handouts, said Willard J. Pierson, the director of the office of the United States Agency for International Development here.
He and other officials point out that since the Ethiopian famine in 1984, Washington has spent $1.2 billion on food relief that kept starving people alive but also bred dependence on aid. A modicum of economic aid made economic sense, Mr. Pierson said.
"The alternative is more and far larger levels of humanitarian assistance," he said.
 
Democratic Moves Cited
 In contrast with the hard-line Marxist Government that was toppled last year after 17 years of war, Mr. Pierson said, the new Government of President Meles Zenawi had made significant strides in human rights and appeared headed toward a market economy. These moves deserve support, he said.
At the heart of the inability to deliver economic aid is a legislative restriction that prohibits the United States from giving aid to a foreign government that is in arrears on debt payments. About a dozen countries, most of them in Africa, fall under this provision, known as the Brooke amendment.
The amount owed by Ethiopia is small compared with the arrears of many other countries, officials said. Ethiopia owes $5.5 million from the mid-1970's, lent to it for military aircraft that the Pentagon now says were never delivered, American officials said. An additional $2 million is owed on housing loans, they said.
Because of its early enthusiasm for the new Government, the State Department urged Congress last fall to grant a one-year waiver of the Brooke amendment as it applied to Ethiopia.
The waiver, which Congress agreed to, was attached to last year's foreign aid bills. But the bills failed to win approval and are unlikely to be revived this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ETHIOPIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (79%); 

COMPANY: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ETHIOPIA ETHIOPIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICS (78%); FAMINE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); STARVATION (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); TRENDS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (50%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE MELES ZENAWI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



64 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Concerned Chapter Battles to Hang On

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CONCORD, Calif., Feb. 29

 BODY:
Thirteen years ago, when Eddie and Betty Schleifer followed their children to this lush suburb of San Francisco, they were spry retirees from the Lower East Side of Manhattan. But after a few years, their retirement grew hollow, and they found, as Mrs. Schleifer said, "We needed to be needed."
To fill the gap, the Schleifers have volunteered for seven years at a local charity organization, the Cambridge Community Center. 
 The program, like thousands of others across the country, relies on the United Way for financial support. And recent reports about the organization's director, William Aramony, who stepped down last week after accusations that he had financially abused his position, have cut a neat swath through the confidence of many of the charity's contributors. That, in turn, has caused even small community groups, like the Cambridge Community Center, to fret over possible cuts in their money.
Mary Lou Laubscher, the center's executive director, said she feared that "the public perception of the United Way is going to be damaged, and their contribution is vital to us."
 
Hard-to-Finance Programs
 This year, the Cambridge Community Center received $39,000, 11 percent of its budget, from the San Francisco Bay Area United Way. Most of that money goes toward the center's food, counseling and other programs for the elderly that are particularly difficult to finance, Mr. Laubscher said.
At this level of community service, where management costs represent only 4 percent of the budget and 150 volunteers undertake the bulk of the work, Ms. Laubscher said the United Way contribution was crucial. Without it, she said: "I just don't know what we would do. I don't think we could hold it all together. The senior programs would certainly go."
Those senior programs are a central concern to the center's staff and volunteers, many of whom are themselves elderly and participate regularly in Wednesday's "Gentle Exercise" class and Friday's "Chat and Chew" luncheon. But in the 13 years since the center began serving 900 poor and low-income elderly living in the area, another kind of poverty announced itself.
"Thirteen years ago we never thought about basic poverty and basic needs," Ms. Laubscher said. "Now our basic needs are taking over everything."
The change is obvious to Mr. Schleifer, who with his wife fills 500 brown bags with donated groceries each week at the old school where the center is run. Mr. Schleifer now spends more of his time packing emergency food bags for families and trying to stretch the occasional donated shipments of meat the charity receives.
The change is visible even in the center's day-care program. Like most of the center's linoleum-floored classrooms, furnished largely with corporate leftovers, the child-care rooms provide lessons in economy.
The oak chairs are the legacy of the school; the metal desks were given by a local utility company. Toys and stuffed animals, all of them worn and some of them eyeless, are from local families. And the large sheets of colored paper tacked up as bulletin boards -- one of the program's few store-bought luxuries -- are reused for children's easel painting.
Given this frugality, Kathy Lafferty, director of child-care programs, said she followed the reports about Mr. Aramony with particular discomfort. "We're taking care of 130 children here for far less than his salary," she said. "I can understand why people are outraged and upset."
Ms. Lafferty said she hoped that contributors who hesitated to donate to their charity would choose to donate directly to their local agencies. "We could certainly use it," she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED WAY OF AMERICA; CAMBRIDGE COMMUNITY CENTER (CONCORD, CALIF) BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (55%); UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (90%); UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED WAY OF AMERICA; CAMBRIDGE COMMUNITY CENTER (CONCORD, CALIF) UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (90%); UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONCORD (CALIF) UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); AGING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILD CARE (78%); VOLUNTEERS (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); 

PERSON: ARAMONY, WILLIAM MARY LOU LAUBSCHER (82%); BETTY SCHLEIFER (82%); KATHY LAFFERTY (56%); WILLIAM ARAMONY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



65 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: With Cuts and Uncertainty, L.I. Police Work Is No Longer a Plum Assignment

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: YAPHANK, L.I., March 1

 BODY:
Being a police officer on Long Island, home to some of the nation's wealthiest suburbs, has long been regarded by law-enforcement professionals as a choice assignment. The wages were among the highest in the nation and the crime rate was among the lowest.
But the troubled economy is rapidly changing things for officers in both the Nassau and Suffolk County departments, causing staff cuts, wage freezes and low morale just as the crime rate is on the rise. 
 Compounding the problems are the recent resignations of the police commissioners in both counties, leaving their departments without leadership at a critical time. Other top officers are also retiring, fearful of losing some of the long-promised pension and retirement benefits they won in contracts in more prosperous times.
"Morale is low," said Thomas Tohill, president of the Suffolk Patrolmen's Benevolent Association. "We are understaffed and under-equipped. Our biggest challenge is just to get the job done."
The Island's high salaries for police officers -- generally $10,000 a year more than for New York City officers -- are a vestige of more prosperous times. In the 1960's and 1970's, a growing fear among middle-class residents that New York City crime would follow them to the suburbs led homeowners in both counties to approve large police budgets.
"In the process, they set a new mark for police wages, first in Suffolk, and then Nassau," said Patrick Murphy, director of the police policy board of the United States Conference of Mayors and a former New York City police commissioner. "Both counties had growing populations and growing revenues to support their police."
He said the Patrolmen's Benevolent Associations in Suffolk and Nassau "became extremely effective in winning the support of legislators for top police pay."
In recent years, however, that political clout has failed to prevent a reversal of fortunes. Lawmakers whom the unions once helped to elect and who approved their lucrative labor contracts have deserted them, caught between shrinking tax revenues and angry voters who now seem less fearful of an invasion by criminals than another tax increase.
 
Few Retirees Being Replaced
 A sharp drop in sales tax revenues on Long Island has created $100 million deficits this year for both Nassau and Suffolk, forcing Nassau to begin the layoffs of more than 3,000 county workers and Suffolk to begin laying off 1,000.
While the police ranks have so far been spared from the layoffs and furloughs that have hurt the ranks of non-uniformed civil service employees, few new officers are being hired to replace those who have served 20 years or more and have chosen to retire in double the usual numbers.
"With all that's happening, you can understand why they're saying, 'Twenty is enough and I'm out of here,' " said one administrative officer in Nassau who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
He said officers were discouraged by aging patrol cars, worn-out equipment and a general feeling that the best of times were behind them.
 
Morale Slumps In Connecticut
 Such discouragement is also felt in Connecticut, where state police officers say that morale has slumped badly over issues of pay and management. And the 991-member Connecticut State Police lost about 8 percent of its sworn officers -- about 80 of its most senior people -- last week through an early retirement program intended to save money.
The number of officers in Nassau, at a peak of 3,960 in 1974, is now down to 2,703. The Suffolk Police Department peaked in 1989 at 2,892 officers, and now has 2,401.
The Suffolk department will cost taxpayers $212 million to operate this year, down from $276 million last year. The department, created in 1958 to serve the county's sprawling five western towns, including the Hamptons, also provides special police services to the rest of the county.
The Nassau police operate on a $388 million budget, up from $324 million last year, but $21 million less than originally proposed.
 
Lower Pay for Rookies
 The base salary of about $50,000 a year in Nassau and Suffolk is $10,000 more a year than in New York City, where union officials have historically used Nassau and Suffolk wage and benefit packages as a standard when negotiating for new labor contracts.
That standard is now being challenged at all levels, from wash-up time to longevity pay. Recruits find that on average they are making between $2,000 and $3,000 less than the starting pay of rookie officers only a year ago. They also have less vacation time and are limited in the number of hours they can work overtime for pay rather than time off.
Separate chapters of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, which represents officers below the rank of sergeant, are negotiating new contracts in Nassau, Suffolk and New York City. And if recent labor-management talks are any guide, the negotiations will be difficult and likely to involve calls for union givebacks.
Top-ranking officers have also been hit in the wallet. For example, the Nassau County Board of Supervisors has rescinded a 5.7 percent raise that 54 officers above the rank of captain would have received this year. The move is expected to save the department $277,000.
 
6-Figure Incomes at Top
 The public debate on the cost-cutting measure disclosed that 8 of the 54 officers in question received more than $100,000 last year and 18 received more than $90,000.
The board's decision led the Nassau department's chief of operations, George Maher, to retire on Feb. 6, the day before the salary freeze took effect, saying, "It's a very unhealthy climate right now."
Nassau's third-ranking officer, Edward Proctor, Chief of Patrol, notified the department that he, too, planned to retire, as did Otto Geiger, deputy chief of patrol, Richard E. Littell, deputy chief of traffic services and Patrick G. Looney, deputy chief of community services. That left the top six slots suddenly vacant.
Just as sudden has been the departure of Nassau County Police Commissioner Samuel J. Rozzi, who for 14 years was a fixture at police headquarters in Mineola. He announced his resignation from his $120,000-a-year job on Jan. 24, along with his first deputy, Charles Spahr, saying he did not wish to oversee the dismantling or shrinking of the department he had helped to build up.
 
Retiring Before Wage Freeze
 They both moved up their retirement day by one week after learning the county was considering the 5.7 percent wage freeze and possible reductions in other benefits.
By retiring before the wage freeze, the officers preserved their pensions, which are based on their final year's total salary, but added an unexpected strain on the police budget. Mr. Rozzi took with him $276,756 in severance pay that included accumulated vacation, sick time and longevity payments. Mr. Spahr left with $267,892.
Nassau paid $21.7 million in severance pay to retiring officers last year, compared with $10.5 million in 1990. At least 132 officers have filed for retirement so far this year, compared with fewer than 50 at this time last year, indicating that payouts could be well above $40 million, adding to the widening budget gap.
In announcing his retirement from his $97,000-a-year post, the Suffolk Police Commissioner, Daniel P. Guido, said simply that it was time to go. He acted days after Suffolk County legislators derided him for his administrative policies.
 
Known as Problem Solver
 Mr. Guido, 60 years old, began his career as a police officer in Nassau in 1954, serving until 1978, the last two years as commissioner. Known as a problem solver, he was commissioner in Yonkers, Westchester County and Stamford, Conn., before taking the job in Suffolk four years ago.
As he gathered up some personal papers on Thursday, his last day in office, Mr. Guido said that police departments on the Island, as well as in most parts of the country, began a gradual decline in the mid-1970's following the Arab oil embargo.
"It was a matter of finances," he said. "There was just less and less revenue to support large police departments."
He said that in the last two years, Suffolk and Nassau had dropped from the top spot as the highest-paid police departments in the country. "That's all a myth now," he said.
As for the future, he said: "The immediate problem is getting over the fiscal bind. Until that happens, it's difficult to look too far ahead."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "FIGHTING CRIME: The Weakened Arm of the Law"
 1991 data for police departments in each county.
 Current budget:
 
Nassau: $388 million
Suffolk: $212 million
N.Y.C.: $1.6 billion
 Highest level of employment (year):
 
Nassau: 3,960 ('74)
Suffolk: 2,892 ('89)
N.Y.C.: 32,000 ('75)
 Current number of officers:
 
Nassau: 2,703
Suffolk: 2,401
N.Y.C.: 27,410
 Rank and file:
 
Nassau: 1,880
Suffolk: 1,658
N.Y.C.: 18,765
 Superiors:
 
Nassau: 823
Suffolk: 743
N.Y.C.: 8,645
 Number below full strength
 
Nassau: 700
Suffolk: 327
N.Y.C.: 1,859
 
Graph: "Fighting Crime: The Weakened Arm of the Law -- How Salaries Stack Up" shows the salary ranges for police departments in N.Y.C., Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester and Yonkers, from starting base pay. (Source: Individual police departments; N.Y.C. Office of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); PENSIONS WAGES & SALARIES (91%); CRIME RATES (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); TAX LAW (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); WORKPLACE MORALE (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); APPROVALS (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); MAYORS (69%); CONTRACT AWARDS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SALES TAX (68%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



66 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The collapse of natural gas prices is delivering the worst jolt to the weakened oil and gas industry since oil prices fell by more than half in early 1986. Many giant companies have announced layoffs or reduced spending. Hundreds of smaller companies are going out of business. And companies with foreign operations are raising their already substantial oil and gas investments overseas, increasing U.S. reliance on imported energy. [Page A1.] 
 After a slow start, Washington's tax-lobbying season is picking up steam. Executives are flying in to plot strategies, members of Congress are gathering in marble-floored conference rooms and tax lawyers are gathering. [D1.]
The challenge for many regions of the country in an age of peace is to find something to replace missiles, bombers and fighter jets -- something that will provide jobs. [B8.]
 
Companies
If lean and mean is the corporate watchword of the 90's, then Asea Brown Boveri is the exemplar. And I.B.M., for one, has taken a keen interest in how this $28 billion business can have a staff of only 140 people at its headquarters. [D1.]
Intel filed a patent infringement suit against Chips and Technologies, the latest company to clone its 386 microprocessor. [D2.]
 
International
American Express and Mexico's largest bank are betting on free trade in North America and a boom in the consumer credit market. They have joined to provide financial services in Mexico, starting with the American Express gold card. [D1.]
Poland's Prime Minister has called on the I.M.F. to permit Poland greater latitude in navigating the treacherous path from a centrally planned economy to the free market. [A9.]
 
Media Business
The gay press is emerging from the shadows to claim a place in the mainstream, led by a generation of lesbians and gay men who view their homosexuality as a matter of pride rather than privacy. [A1.] In an era of niche marketing, more companies are reaching out for the gay dollar these days, with varying degrees of openness. Some national advertisers are buying space for the first time in gay publications. Others are looking for ways to subtly acknowledge homosexuals without alienating heterosexuals. [D9.]
Joe Roth, the head of 20th Century Fox films, seems to lack the flamboyance and piranha qualities that seem endemic to studio chiefs. His three-year reign has been marked by an enormous success ("Home Alone"), some hits and a number of financial disappointments and duds. [D1.] Many television industry executives are questioning whether Fox Broadcasting can continue to thrive, now that Barry Diller has resigned. [D9.]
Gerald M. Levin has moved rapidly to shore up morale at Time Warner's magazines. Alex S. Jones: Press Notes. [D8.]
If life imitates art, advertising imitates both. Nowhere is that more evident than when actors and actresses appear in ad campaigns as the characters they play in popular TV series. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D10.]
 
Today's Columns
Unbeknownst to most investors, many brokers complete trades of stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange at other exchanges or in the over-the-counter market at terms slightly less favorable to investors. In return for shifting the trades, the brokers receive payments -- in effect, bounties -- for diverting their business. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
Thousands of small investors are expected to give New York a big vote of confidence, as the city designates $100 million of a $950 million offering at prices as low as $1,200 for a $5,000 bond due in 20 years. Kenneth N. Gilpin: Credit Markets. [D7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ABJA (FRA) (56%); ABJ (FRA) (56%); ABBN (SWX) (56%); ABB (STO) (56%); ABB (NYSE) (56%); ABB (NSE) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); POLAND (69%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); ABB LTD (56%); INTEL CORP (55%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); POLAND (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (88%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TAX CONSULTING (76%); LOBBYING (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); TAX LAW (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); MICROPROCESSORS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); PATENT LAW (69%); PATENTS (66%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (66%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (66%); CONSUMER LENDING (65%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (64%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



67 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Bolivian, Talking Kindly of U.S., Seeks Investment

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LA PAZ, Bolivia

 BODY:
He was an exiled revolutionary in the 1970's. He had close ties with Willy Brandt of Germany and Olof Palme of Sweden, two leading Social Democrats. His campaign oratory had distinct anti-American overtones. And he placed a distant third in the 1989 national elections.
So when Jaime Paz Zamora emerged as Bolivia's President that August, many here wondered if his leadership would divert Bolivia from a three-year course of stability and low inflation. 
 Now in the third year of his four-year term, President Paz Zamora, who remembers the 24,000 percent inflation of the early 1980's, has so far stayed the course. Last year, Bolivia had its strongest growth in more than a decade and economists are expecting a repeat in 1992. Over the last five years, inflation has averaged less than 20 percent a year.
The oratory now is distinctly pro-American and pro-business. In a recent interview, President Paz Zamora said that in traveling to San Antonio, Tex., to attend the second drug summit meeting on Feb. 26 and 27, a large purpose of his trip would be wooing American business with economic statistics that, from afar, seem highly favorable.
 
'This Is Not Russia'
 "I'm going to tell them to come to Bolivia and invest," he said. "This is not Russia, where you have to spend billions and billions to make a difference. With a little money here you can produce a great effect."
But economists and politicians here say they are not so sure that Mr. Paz Zamora can find a large audience. Bolivia, the poorest country in South America and the one with the largest number of military coups on record, still has deep structural problems and its politics still seem as changeable as the terrain, which runs from snowcapped mountains to jungle swamps.
Poverty remains entrenched, with 40 percent of the population undernourished and without access to health care and education.
Almost daily, students and municipal workers have been taking to the streets by the hundreds and thousands to protest budget cuts. The demonstrations often end in violence. Miners regularly halt production in some of Bolivia's largest mines for days, protesting efforts to bring in foreign partners.
As a measure of growing public disenchantment, many here point to the rise of two populist politicians: Max Fernandez of the National Civic Union, a former truck driver who controls the country's largest brewery, and Carlos Palenque, a former journalist, from the Conscience of the People Party. Their parties scored big victories in municipal elections in December and both are considered possible successors to Mr. Paz Zamora in 1993.
 
A Vein of Discontent
 "The rise of populism really scares me," said Antonio Sanchez de Losada, the Government Comptroller General. "No one knows what they stand for. But they have tapped a vein of discontent."
Indeed, some politicians here shuddered when, after the coup attempt in Venezuela in February, a group of army officers sent a letter to some members of congress complaining about low salaries, lack of attention to the military and corruption.
Mr. Paz Zamora discounted any risk of a coup.
"During the transfer of power in Bolivia, the armed forces conducted themselves better than any other sector," he said. "They yielded power with conviction and respect for the democratic process."
The Bolivian President, an intense, dark-haired man, whose face was badly burned in a plane accident, is sometimes criticized for the influence exercised by his coalition partner, Gen. Hugo Banzer Suarez. General Banzer Suarez, a former military dictator who once jailed Mr. Paz Zamora, came in second in the 1989 vote. In the coalition the two men forged, the general wields a great deal of power behind the scenes and controls half the seats in the Cabinet.
 But Mr. Paz Zamora gets high marks from some for his pragmatic approach. Not only did he maintain the open-market stabilization program that he inherited, but he continued to open the economy by eliminating many tariff barriers and putting foreign business on an equal footing with Bolivian business.
Although the economy of Bolivia is tiny compared with those of its neighbors, its record on controlling inflation and registering growth has been among the best in Latin America. And while those countries have struggled with recession over the last five years, Bolivia has experienced economic growth since 1985. In 1991, its best year, Bolivia posted economic growth of 4.1 percent.
 
U.S. Rejects Two Proposals
 But will Mr. Paz Zamora be able to persuade investors that Bolivia, a landlocked nation with poor roads, few bridges and difficult access to international markets, is a better investment risk than its maritime neighbors, like Chile and Argentina? Probably not without incentives.
The Paz Zamora Government had hoped to persuade the United States to back a plan that would have given American businesses special incentives to invest here. This, the President says, will not only fuel growth, but provide new, stable jobs for peasant farmers now growing coca, the raw material of cocaine, and an incentive to switch to another way of life.
But Washington rejected both a request to set up a new investment fund that would lend to businesses investing in countries fighting the drug war and a proposal for special tax breaks.
"We're not interested in setting up a new fund for every worthy cause that comes along," said a Government official who asked not to be identified.
Still, few economists disagree with Mr. Paz Zamora's assessment that it will be nearly impossible for Bolivia to continue its progress without large injections of foreign capital.
"Look, we're not asking for handouts," President Paz Zamora said. "We're saying if you invest here, we kill two birds with one stone. You make money and we fight drugs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jaime Paz Zamora (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: BOLIVIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (92%); GERMANY (91%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (55%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (55%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BOLIVIA BOLIVIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (92%); GERMANY (91%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (85%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COUPS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); TRENDS (74%); MOUNTAINS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); STATISTICS (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); MALNUTRITION (63%); CIVIL SERVICES (61%); CITIES (61%); CITY GOVERNMENT (61%); WRITERS (60%); BREWERIES (60%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; PAZ ZAMORA, JAIME (PRES) SVEN OLOF JOACHIM 'OLOF' PALME (74%); WILLY BRANDT (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



68 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Officers' Assault Trial Nears Opening

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 1

 BODY:
Over the last month, lawyers have sifted through a pool of 2,000 people, searching for an impartial jury to hear the case of a videotaped police beating that almost everyone here has seen over and over again.
The final cut of 141 prospects is being questioned now, and opening arguments are expected this week in the suburb of Simi Valley before 12 jurors and 6 alternates, who by viewing the videotape have in effect become witnesses to the incident. The case was moved to Simi Valley, 35 miles northeast of Los Angeles, after defense lawyers won a change of venue. 
 The beating took only two minutes, leaving Rodney G. King, an unemployed construction worker, with severe physical and mental damage, including memory loss. But the one-year anniversary of the event, on March 3, will pass before testimony begins.
Legal maneuvers, including the change of venue and the removal for bias of the original judge, contributed to delays in the case, in which a police sergeant and three officers face charges of assault in the beating that followed a high-speed, 15-minute chase.
 
Nationwide Attention
 The incident drew nationwide attention to problems of police misconduct and led to a review of Los Angeles police procedures and to a search for a new chief for one of the nation's most prominent police departments.
Because of the continuing publicity, defense lawyers won a change of venue from Los Angeles County to neighboring Ventura County, and Judge Stanley Weisberg of Superior Court ordered the 2,000-member jury pool, the largest in the history of the state, said Jerianne Hayslett, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles County Superior Court.
Although Simi Valley residents see the same television programs and read similar newspapers as residents of Los Angeles, it was argued that they might be somewhat insulated from the Los Angeles political rumpus that followed the beating.
The selection process began at the start of February with the mailing of a questionnaire to all the prospective jurors. It was followed by courtroom interviews with 260 prospective jurors in an effort to discover any biases about the highly publicized beating.
In the final round of interviews that began last week, lawyers reached the stage of standard legal questioning about prospective jurors' histories, including contacts with law enforcement that could affect their objectivity.
The tenor of the initial questioning and of the prospective jurors' answers have offered a glimpse into the concerns of the lawyers as well as of the reaction of the public to the videotape, which shows four officers swinging their nightsticks and kicking a prostrate Mr. King.
The questionnaire includes topics like knowledge of the case and membership in political organizations.
"Unlike most trials, a lot of people have not only seen the event itself but have seen it again and again and again," said Toni M. Massaro of the University of Arizona College of Law. "It is therefore harder to secure jurors who don't think of themselves as witnesses to the crime."
The questionnaire, which runs to 41 pages, suggests that the defense is seeking jurors who are pro-police and to weed out members of minorities, said Dan Stormer, a Los Angeles trial lawyer who is an expert on jury selection and who studied the questions.
"What they're looking for are people who are blank slates, people who haven't heard about the violence associated with the L.A.P.D. or the racism associated with the L.A.P.D.," he said.
The prospective jurors' responses suggested that the public is not only aware of the issues but in many cases reacted to the beating with strong emotions.
But many in the pool dismissed the heated debate that followed the beating as "political." And although most members said they had seen the coverage in local newspapers, very few said they had actually read the articles.
To shield them from public scrutiny, Judge Weisberg ordered that the prospective jurors be referred to publicly only by designated numbers.
In the first stage of questioning, juror No. 12, a Hispanic man in his 40's, displayed a detailed though sometimes distorted knowledge of the case, and said the "police reacted with excessive force." He was kept in the pool.
Juror 14, a white woman of about 40, said, "That is a very nasty video" that "looks violent, very violent." The defense wanted to dismiss her for cause, but the judge refused.
Juror 15, a middle-aged white woman, said: "I didn't like what I saw on the tape. There were probably facts leading up to it. I have no idea what they are." She was kept.
One of the most impassioned of the prospective jurors was a black woman who wrote on the questionnaire, "I really feel in my heart and soul that four police officers, with malice in their hearts, did violently bludgeon, kick, step on and restrain with force a man whose skin color made it easier for them not to show any emotion or any concern for his well being." She told the court she could not be an impartial juror, and was dismissed.
Defense lawyers have indicated that they will make two related primary arguments, that Mr. King's behavior before the videotape was turned on justified a strong police reaction and that the actions on the tape were consistent with approved procedure in the Los Angeles Police Department.
The defendants are Sgt. Stacey Koon, 41, and Officers Timothy Wind, 31, Theodore Briseno, 39, and Laurence Powell, 29.
 
Arguing for Overreaction
 Peter Arenella, a professor at the law school of the University of California at Los Angeles, said the defense was seeking jurors who are independent-minded enough to look beyond the apparent unambiguity of the videotape, while at the same time being sympathetic to authority figures like law-enforcement officers.
A first step will be to suggest that an initial use of force was justified by the threatening actions of Mr. King before George Holliday, an amateur cameraman, began taping the incident from his apartment, Mr. Arenella said.
The defense can then hope that the jurors will be receptive to an argument that the beating they have seen so often should be considered as simply an overreaction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: VENTURA COUNTY STAR (54%); LOS ANGELES COUNTY SUPERIOR COURT (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES COUNTY SUPERIOR COURT (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF); SIMI VALLEY (CALIF) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; BRUTALITY AND HARASSMENT CHARGES; TRIALS; JURY SYSTEM ; BLACKS (IN US) LAWYERS (91%); JURY TRIALS (91%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); JURY DUTY (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); JUDGES (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); TESTIMONY (76%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (76%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (74%); MISCONDUCT (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); SUBURBS (71%); POLITICS (62%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (54%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: KING, RODNEY GLEN; BRISENO, THEODORE J (POLICE OFFICER); WIND, TIMOTHY E (POLICE OFFICER); KOON, STACEY C (SGT); POWELL, LAURENCE M (POLICE OFFICER) ; MYDANS, SETH

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



69 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1752 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
The Very Model of Efficiency

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ZURICH

 BODY:
In a drab suburb of this prosperous city stands a squat red-brick building that might pass for a high school. It is as unremarkable as the train station opposite. Yet recently, top executives of I.B.M. have been taking a keen interest in the place as they seek to reorganize the world's largest computer business.
The five-story building is the world headquarters of the Asea Brown Boveri Group, an electrical engineering conglomerate with sales last year of about $28 billion. But in the offices lining the ghostly corridors of its headquarters, a mere 140 people work. If lean and mean is the corporate watchword of the 90's, then Asea is the exemplar. 
 The worldwide personnel department for Asea's 220,000 employees is headed by a Swede named Arne Olsson; he has a secretary and three other people working for him. The worldwide legal department has five people. "I was talking yesterday to I.B.M., and they told me they have 55 staff dealing with international assignments at their European headquarters," Mr. Olsson said recently. "I suggested they have to find new solutions."
 
One of Many Talks
 This conversation was one of many between Asea and the International Business Machines Corporation in the last several months. Like many other large American corporations facing tougher global competition and a worldwide economic slowdown, I.B.M. is seeking innovative ways to cut fat, remove the built-in lethargy of corporate bureaucracies and leverage existing strengths.
In November, I.B.M. announced the elimination of 20,000 jobs this year and a broad decentralization, involving the segmenting of I.B.M. into individual enterprises that will focus on manufacturing, development, marketing and services. John F. Akers, the chairman, said the intent was to make I.B.M. more responsive and accountable through this "commonwealth of businesses."
It is now clear that his decision involved detailed scrutiny of Asea. "There have been executive-level meetings between the two companies," Rob Wilson, I.B.M.'s spokesman, said. "We have made a close study of the Asea structure and found many aspects of it appealing. What we particularly like is the idea of a very lean head office acting more as a holding company, with a family of more independent and flexible businesses around it." He added that I.B.M. had also looked at other, unnamed companies.
In essence, what I.B.M. and other multinational corporations are looking for is the optimum coordination of their global and local strengths.
"Companies from Kodak to Hewlett-Packard are asking what is the value added by various levels of management," said C. K. Prahalad, professor of corporate strategy in international business at the University of Michigan, "and they are seeing that at the senior level they don't necessarily need a large staff to best manage the mix of global and local."
He added: "Coordination has a strategic worth. But it also has an organizational cost, so the essential thing is to find the best balance."
In this quest, Asea appears to offer some unconventional solutions, reached in part because the corporation, while very large, has little entrenched culture, a short history and no nationalist allegiances.
A world leader in the manufacture of electric-power equipment, Asea is largely the creation of its president and chief executive, Percy Barnevik, an iconoclastic 50-year-old Swede whose severe style gives new meaning to the work ethic. A man who shuns procrastination, he says managers should "rather be roughly right than exactly wrong."
It was Mr. Barnevik who masterminded the 1987 merger of Asea of Sweden and Brown Boveri of Switzerland -- two engineering companies that were pillars of their national establishments. Now he takes the view that neither he nor his company has a home.
"I have 25 home countries, and I defend them all," he said, referring to the chief markets in which Asea does business. He scoffed at the persistent nationalism in a Europe more united in rhetoric than reality, noting that, to avoid a veto, he informed the Swedish Government of the merger only a day before it happened. "What we try to do in A.B.B. is a microcosm of what Europe will eventually do as a whole," he predicted.
The company's 13-member board has Swedish, Swiss, German, American and Dutch executives. Meeting every three weeks in cities from Stamford, Conn., to Stockholm, they communicate in English, which is also the language of all interoffice memos.
 
Disappointing Results Expected
 The 1991 financial results are expected to be disappointing after Asea's doubling of its operating profits -- to $1.1 billion from $550 million -- from 1988 to 1990. Peter Knox, a power-industry analyst at UBS Phillips & Drew, predicted flat operating profits of about $1.1 billion, virtually unchanged from last year, on sales of $28.5 billion. Net earnings climbed from $386 million in 1988 to $590 million in 1990.
"Barnevik may be a visionary," Mr. Knox said, "and he's certainly capable. But A.B.B. has not proved immune to the recession."
Unshaken, Mr. Barnevik is outspoken in his belief that the future will belong to what he calls "multidomestic corporations" that combine national nimbleness with international vision and financial clout. If Asea needs to spend $2 billion a year, or 7.5 percent of revenue, on centralized research and development to compete with Mitsubishi and Siemens, it equally needs to "act like a compact domestic company in each country," Mr. Barnevik said.
He added: "I want the small company's flexibility of reaction allied with the big company's resources. This is where I.B.M. has been trying to copy us."
Mr. Barnevik's strategy has been illustrated in the United States, where Asea spent about $2.3 billion in the last three years acquiring Westinghouse's power distribution and transmission subsidiary and Combustion Engineering Inc., a builder of boilers and nuclear plants. United States sales totaled $4.4 billion last year.
Neither business was doing well when acquired. But Asea brought a new approach. At Combustion Engineering's head office in Stamford, the staff was reduced to 68 from 900, and the work force was cut in half.
Gerhard Schulmeyer, a German who runs Asea's United States operations, explained that 30 percent of head-office personnel were laid off and 30 percent were transferred to operating units. Another 30 percent, in areas like marketing and promotion, were moved into separate, newly created companies offering services on a competitive basis.
What Mr. Barnevik calls the 30-30-30 approach was used in Finland, where the company's head office was cut to 28 from 880 employees; in Germany, where, after prolonged strikes, personnel plunged to 100 from 1,800, and at Brown Boveri's old Swiss headquarters, where a staff of 4,000 became a mere 200. Mr. Barnevik believes the policy is applicable to most corporate headquarters.
At the same time, the American acquisitions were rapidly integrated into what Asea calls its global matrix. Export business, helped by Asea's international outlook, boomed to more than $1 billion from negligible levels in 1989 and is expected to double in the next few years.
"The U.S., with its wages at about a Spanish level, or 30 percent below Germany, is an excellent production platform," Mr. Barnevik said. "But executives there are much too focused on the domestic market and don't bother to get out in the world."
Process automation, a sector that had been based in Germany, was moved to Stamford because, Mr. Schulmeyer said, "the U.S. seemed the right environment for this software-oriented business." Boiler systems, a business largely acquired with Combustion, is now managed worldwide from the United States.
 
Profits Are Turned
 After losing $150 million in 1990, Combustion Engineering turned a small profit last year, while profits at the Westinghouse unit increased fourfold, Asea said.
"What Asea has been able to do in the U.S. is take a marginal business in national terms, put it in a global matrix, use it as an export base and get much improved results," said Eric K. Clemons, a professor at the Wharton School. "There is very little precedent for the A.B.B. kind of setup in its ability to rapidly integrate local and global operations."
Asea had divided its activities -- which range from mass-transit vehicles to gas-turbine power plants -- into eight businesses, each with annual sales of $1 billion to $7 billion, and 65 smaller business areas.
Alongside this structure, Asea has 1,300 legal entities, with 5,000 profit centers, operating as national companies in various countries. The managers of these units, with their national perspective, interact -- sometimes uneasily -- with the globally oriented business area managers.
For example, a recently acquired Polish company was found to make the cheapest air-cooled generators, so Asea's production from Sweden and other European countries was moved there. Spain has export-credit guarantees to Mexico and Venezuela for switch-gear equipment, so production was shifted there from Germany.
 
'No National Allegiances'
 "You optimize globally, you call the shots globally and you have no national allegiances," Mr. Barnevik said. "But of course you meet resistance from the national managers. We have had quite a lot of trouble because national blood is thicker than water."
Critics suggest that the very intricacy and rootlessness of the A.B.B. structure can create problems, particularly in the power industry, where clients are looking for turnkey projects like complete power plants requiring sophisticated coordination of business areas.
"How do you avoid infighting and insure the left hand knows what the right hand is doing?" asked Peter Dupont, an analyst at UBS Phillips & Drew. Recently, he noted, the General Electric Company of Britain, and Siemens won significant power-generating contracts in Europe for which Asea was bidding.
Still, I.B.M. clearly believes it has much to learn on the road to what its spokesman, Mr. Wilson, calls "a more independent and flexible series of companies."
Mr. Clemons of Wharton said a danger for I.B.M. was that an entrenched system could feel very threatened by significant change.
"Asea did not have this problem because it is only four years old," he noted. "But will decentralization sit well with the I.B.M. culture? Will very lean head offices and layoffs play havoc with the tremendous loyalty that has characterized I.B.M?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Managers should "rather be roughly right than exactly wrong," says Percy Barnevik, the head of Asea Brown Boveri. (ABB Group); Gerhard Schulmeyer (pg. D8)
 
Graphs: "Results at A.B.B." shows Asea Brown Boveri Group's revenues in 1990, revenues from 1988-1990, and profits before taxes from 1988-1990. (Source: Company reports) (pg. D1)
 
Charts: "The 30-30-30 Approach"
 
Percy Barnevik, chief executive of the A.B.B. Group, has a formula for paring down staff, and he uses it with a vengeance. In Finland, for example, he cut A.B.B.'s head office to 28 from 880 employees with his 30-30-30 approach.
 
30% are lead off.
 
30% are transferred to operating units of the company.
 
30% employed in areas like marketing and promotion are moved into separate, newly created companies offering services to A.B.B. on a competitive bases.
 
10% remain.
 
(Source: Asea Brown Boveri) (pg. D1)
 
"PROFILE: Gerhard Schulmeyer"
 
German-born Asea Brown Boveri executive vice president based in Stamford, Conn.
 
Responsible for:
 
A.B.B.'s business in the United States and Canada.
 
Industry segment of A.B.B. worldwide.
 
On managing the company vertically (U.S. and Canadian operation) and horizontally (worldwide industry segment):
 
"You see the world from both angles, and there is a self-correcting factor."
 
(pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (85%); IBM (NYSE) (85%); IBM (LSE) (85%); ABJA (FRA) (57%); ABJ (FRA) (57%); ABBN (SWX) (57%); ABB (STO) (57%); ABB (NYSE) (57%); ABB (NSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (57%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (57%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%); FINLAND (55%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASEA BROWN BOVERI AB; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM) INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (85%); ABB LTD (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%); ASEA BROWN BOVERI GROUP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASEA BROWN BOVERI AB; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM) ASEA BROWN BOVERI GROUP (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%); FINLAND (55%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; CORPORATIONS; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (74%); ENGINEERING (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



70 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Earl A. Scheib, 85, Owner Of 200 Shops That Painted Cars

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., March 1

 BODY:
Earl A. Scheib, the gravel-voiced television entrepreneur who promised to paint "any car, any color," died Saturday in his home in Beverly Hills. He was 85 years old.
Mr. Scheib died in his sleep, said Jerry LuVisi, a longtime employee of Mr. Scheib's Green Thumb Stables in Chino. She said he had suffered from emphysema for two years. 
 Mr. Scheib's television advertising posted a fever chart of inflation from the 1950's to the present. Mr. Scheib would announce himself, "Hi, I'm Earl Scheib," and promise to paint any car for a price that rose over the decades from $29.95 to $119.95.
His discount paint operation became a chain of more than 200 shops in about 40 states, and his quirky late-night television commercials made him a folk figure in Southern California, as well as a subject of imitation and jokes.
He and his company, based in Beverly Hills, were frequent targets of county district attorneys and the Federal Trade Commission, who doubted the veracity of his claims. Only a few colors were available for the special price, they said.
Mr. Scheib also raised thoroughbreds. Over the last several decades his 45-acre horse farm brought along horses like Fran's Valentine, the leading California-bred filly of all time with earnings of nearly $1.4 million.
Mr. Scheib celebrated his birthday on Friday at Santa Anita Park racetrack where he watched his horse, Cause I'm Leaving, place first in the fourth race, Ms. LuVisi said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Earl A. Scheib (Associated Press, 1968)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (73%); GREEN THUMB (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREEN THUMB (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); HORSES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (77%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (73%); PAINTS & COATINGS MFG (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); PAINTS & COATINGS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (56%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: SCHEIB, EARL A EARL A SCHEIB (95%); JERRY LUVISI (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



71 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: A Town Links Its Fate With Doomed Hospital

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ROMULUS, N.Y.

 BODY:
The Willard Psychiatric Center stretches for hundreds of acres here, giving way gently to the rural streets and small houses perched on its edges. It is hard to separate the hospital from the community: Willard is Romulus's employer, its social center, its soul.
But Willard, which houses some of the oldest and longest-term mental patients in the state system, was built more than 100 years ago, when the mentally ill were shunted off to live out their lives in vast state hospitals. Now, as the state tries to replace its hospitals with new community-based treatment programs, Willard is being told, in effect, that it is superfluous. 
 Last month the State Office of Mental Health identified Willard as one of four hospitals it hopes to close. Seven others will have their operations drastically cut back.
 
'Lifeline' for a Community

Though the proposal may make sense financially, it has sent stabs of fear and sadness through this and other remote communities. Residents of this town of 2,065 about 50 miles southeast of Rochester wonder what will become of the local economy, which depends on the hospital. And hospital workers wonder what will become of the patients.
Of the hospital's 664 workers, 601 live less than 20 miles away. The local banks depend on Willard employees' deposits and carry their mortgages. Workers -- and patients -- shop at local stores. And without their Willard paychecks, few residents would be able to afford to buy the cars that local dealers sell.
In fact, the only other local employers are a pump factory and an Army depot whose future is also uncertain. That leaves Willard, where many families have worked for generations as nurses, cafeteria aides, physical therapists and groundskeepers, generating a pride rarely seen in other community-sustaining institutions like prisons.
"You go into many areas and people say, 'A mental institution -- my God, I wouldn't want to live near one,' but that's not the attitude here," said Ray Sajac, who owns J & R restaurant, a stone's throw from the Willard campus. "That facility across the street is a lifeline for the entire community."
The state has been talking about closing Willard and sending its 267 patients to other hospitals for what seems like an eternity. But organized labor and the area's powerful Republican legislators have argued that the regional economy depends on Willard, and that the hospital has an important role in the state's mental-health system. Their combined pressure has so far made the prospect politically untenable. But now, with money in the state budget so scarce, closing Willard seems imperative.
"Willard is doing a very good job, but there's simply no longer a demand for the type of hospitalization they've been providing," said Dr. Richard C. Surles, Commissioner of the State Office of Mental Health, "And we do have capacity for their patients in other hospitals."
The state has promised not to close Willard altogether until an alternative use -- a prison, another health-care center or some sort of merger with another hospital -- can be found. But building a prison, the most obvious option, hardly seems possible when the state has already canceled plans to build a half-dozen other prisons, acknowledging that there is no money to run them.
"We're looking at two to three years to find an alternative use," said Senator John R. Kuhl Jr., a Republican whose district includes Seneca County. "And I don't know what the realistic possibility is that anything is going to happen there. I'm not pessimistic, but I'm not overly optimistic."
Dr. Surles contends that Willard and other hospitals, including Harlem Valley Psychiatric Center near Poughkeepsie, are outdated and far too expensive to maintain. Considering the bare numbers, it is hard to argue: of the state's Mental Health Department's $2.4 billion budget for the fiscal year ending March 31, about 70 percent was spent on the 22 hospitals, which serve less than 10 percent of the estimated 185,000 New Yorkers who have serious mental illnesses.
 
'A Monster to Maintain'
 As patients have been de-institutionalized and treatment methods have changed, the hospitals' population has fallen drastically, to 12,400 today from a high of 93,000 in 1955. At Willard, where huge buildings that used to house hundreds of patients have been abandoned and boarded up, there are 267 patients living where there were once 3,053.
But the vast site must still be kept up. "You're looking at a hospital that is a monster to maintain -- over 600 acres, a mile long, with 50-some buildings," Dr. Surles said. "We have to maintain a heat plant and a water-treatment plant. The infrastructure cost is horrendous."
The state predicted recently that the number of patients needing long-term care would dwindle to between 8,000 and 11,000 in the next 10 years, a number it can house in other hospitals. But most mentally ill patients, state officials believe, would more appropriately be treated in community-based programs.
Mental health advocates say that, if anything, the state has moved far too slowly to close the hospitals. And they say it is imperative that the state uses whatever money it can save to shore up its community programs.
"We have too many institutions, and we're maintaining our capital investment rather than providing services," said Bonnie Primus Cohen, executive director of the Mental Health Association in New York State Inc. "But we're concerned that we take money invested in under-utilized buildings and invest them in communities."
 
Intertwined With Community
 The state says it has enough beds in other hospitals for Willard's mostly elderly patients, some of whom have been in the state system since before World War II and are now well into their 90's. But the hospital staff says that the issue is not space, but the high quality of care at Willard, which includes a novel form of physical therapy that has worked wonders with dozens of schizophrenic patients.
"The move would be devastating to lots of patients," said Dr. Lisa Strayer, a psychiatrist at Willard, describing how some patients are beginning to ask, and worry, about the possibility of Willard's closing. "These are people who've been buffeted, and they've found a home."
In making their arguments to keep Willard open, the employees' unions have tried to focus on health care in the region as well as on employment.
"Willard is very intertwined with the health-care system in the community," said Marie Schmidt, a nurse and a Public Employees' Federation representative at Willard. "The professional staff here is staffing the local clinics and the acute psychiatric beds, and we're afraid that if the facility closes, they'll leave," Mrs. Schmidt said.
 
Bracing for the Worst
 And Dr. Anthony N. Mustille, Willard's director, said the hospital had evolved to the point where it is already providing many of the services Dr. Surles wants to emphasize. For instance, he said, the hospital has 461 outpatients who live in the community and depend on Willard for treatment. Almost 300 of them live in supervised "family care" settings, similar to foster care for children.
"Over the years our philosophy is that patients don't come here to stay," he said. "As soon as they're manageable, we send them back to the community."
But Dr. Mustille's arguments against closure, and those of the unions and the legislators, are not working any more. And having nourished and been nourished so long by Willard, the community is trying to brace for the worst, without much success.
"If Willard were to close, people just wouldn't know what to do and where to go," said Richard J. Compo, president of the county Chamber of Commerce. "They've worked there for so long, they would just be lost."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Janice Congdon, the head physical therapist at the Willard Psychiatric Center in Romulus, N.Y., working with a patient, Gertrude Sweet, who pulled on weights to strengthen her muscles. Willard houses some of the oldest and longest-term mental patients in the state. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WILLARD PSYCHIATRIC CENTER WILLARD PSYCHIATRIC CENTER (97%); MENTAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILLARD PSYCHIATRIC CENTER MENTAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ROMULUS (NY); NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; HOSPITALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS HOSPITALS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); BUDGETS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); NURSES & NURSING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (70%); RESTAURANTS (64%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (63%); ARMIES (52%); 

PERSON: LYALL, SARAH RICHARD C SURLES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



72 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Voters
In Two Regions With Primaries Tomorrow, the Primary Emotion is Anger;
People in Denver Express Disdain for Candidates

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DENVER, March 1

 BODY:
A weed never stands a chance along Fenton Street, where manicured lawns and sculptured bushes surround tidy brick-and-shutter homes. The sidewalks are clean and clear, except for a chalked outline for hopscotch. And bumper stickers pledge allegiance to the flag and the Broncos football team.
Like most Americans, the people on Fenton Street, in the southwest Denver neighborhood of Bear Valley, consider themselves to be the bulwark of the great middle class, the taxpaying, law-abiding, family-centered voters being wooed by the Presidential contenders. But with the Colorado primary set for Tuesday, the candidates of both parties seem about as popular in this neighborhood as crabgrass. 
 "It's a heck of a poor choice we've got," Gil Hassinger, a 55-year-old engineer, said with a grimace and a shake of the head. "The average person on the street could do better than any of this crew."
When voters here look at the smiling faces of the Presidential contenders in television advertisements, they see mostly warts.
 
Anger on Both Sides
 Republicans on Fenton Street are angry at President Bush for breaking his no-tax pledge and taking so long to notice the recession. But at the same time, many see Patrick J. Buchanan's message of "America First" as a bit naive, even frightening.
Democrats speak with exasperation about fumbled opportunities. Finally, after 12 years, they say they appear to have an invitation to the big dance -- the Inaugural Ball. But no one seems groomed and fit to escort them.
"They've got a chance, and they're blowing it," said Dennis Schroeder, a 35-year-old photographer. "I think the Democrats just don't know how to win anymore."
Democratic voters here look at Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, who was once viewed as the party's front-runner, and they see too much baggage to fit aboard Air Force One. They look at Paul E. Tsongas, the former Massachusetts Senator, and they see reminders of Michael S. Dukakis, the 1988 nominee whose candidacy they would like to forget.
 
Sorting Through the Issues
 The Democrats here also say Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska has often seemed bored with the campaign, and they are not terribly excited about him, either. They listen to Senator Tom Harkin, the populist from Iowa, and wonder if he is running for the presidency of a union local. And then there is Edmund G. Brown Jr., the former California Governor, who is best known in the campaign for waving his toll-free campaign number.
But like them or not, one of these seven candidates is almost certainly going to win the Presidency this fall. So the voters on Fenton Street -- teachers, truckers, police officers and aerospace engineers -- are sorting through the issues.
A generation ago Democrats outnumbered Republicans in this neighborhood. But Ronald Reagan swept the area in 1980 and again in 1984, and a majority of voters here supported Mr. Bush in 1988.
The quest of the Democratic Party to regain the White House rests in large part on bringing voters like those on Fenton Street back to their fold. And some voters here say they are ready to return.
"The middle-income person just can't get ahead anymore," said Donna Gordanier, 41, an investigator for the Denver prosecutor's office. She and her husband live in an attractive ranch-style home. But the living room is mostly empty. "We can't afford to buy furniture," she said.
Ms. Gordanier, who voted for Mr. Bush last time, said she did not believe he cared enough about middle-income people. She said that she left the Democratic Party long ago because it seemed too liberal but that she is now considering a vote for Mr. Tsongas, who is leading the Democratic field in surveys here. "He's not against business," she said. "I like that."
Many Democrats on Fenton Street said they initially supported Mr. Clinton, in part because he was cast as the candidate with the best chance to unseat Mr. Bush. But some now say they are troubled by the allegations of marital infidelity, along with reports that he sought to avoid service in the Vietnam War.
"I just can't stand Clinton's moral values," said Clara Voss, 69, who sat in an easy chair beneath a portrait of Jesus. "If you can't be true to your wife, how can you be true to your country?"
 
Concern Over Health Insurance
 Mrs. Voss, who has voted for Republicans for many years, said she would vote for Mr. Tsongas on Tuesday. Mrs. Voss's son Bill, a union worker and lifelong Democrat, said he, too, would vote for the former Massachusetts Senator, but added that any of the Democrats would be better than Mr. Bush.
Above all other issues, most voters in this neighborhood cited health insurance as a primary concern. "Our benefits get lower, and we have to dish out more," said Sharon Trujullo, a 40-year-old telephone company clerk who attends night school. As a single parent, she said, she worries about health coverage for her 12-year-old daughter.
"If a candidate can fix the health insurance situation, they've got my support," said Ms. Trujullo, a Democrat who has not decided which candidate to support.
Tom Bailey, 62, who makes harpsichords and describes himself as a liberal, said he would vote for Mr. Harkin even though he does not believe that the Iowa Senator has a chance at winning. "I think the Democrats were too hasty to cast him aside," Mr. Bailey said. "In these economic hard times, I think his message would have strong appeal."
 
Bush Faulted on Taxes
 Among the Republicans, virtually all criticized Mr. Bush for raising taxes. But few spoke highly of Mr. Buchanan. "He's not a conservative," said H. K. Merrill, a 56-year-old aerospace engineer. "He's a reactionary."
Mr. Merrill said he had never missed an election but might stay home from the polls this year. "We don't have a good choice," he said.
But other Republicans said life would be worse under a Democratic President. "The Democrats just want to give everything away," said Laurie Fong, 32, as she balanced a crying baby in one arm and reached for a toddler with the other.
"We were married 12 years before we could buy a house," she continued. "We sacrificed. A lot of people aren't willing to do that. And the Democrats cater to them."
Other Republicans said they had not forgotten Mr. Bush's strong leadership in the Persian Gulf war. "He showed he had guts," said Mike Busby, a 29-year-old trucker who served in the Navy.
But Mr. Hassinger, the civil engineer, said Mr. Bush's "bumbling" of economic issues outweighed all else. "There is absolutely no way I would vote for Bush again," he said. "He's just too insulated. He doesn't know that people are struggling."
Sounding a bit pained, he added, "I guess I'll have to vote for a Democrat."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "They've got a chance, and they're blowing it," said Dennis Schroeder, a 35-year-old photographer who lives in southwest Denver. "I think the Democrats just don't know how to win anymore." He played with his children recently outside his Fenton Street home. (Eric Lars Bakke for The New York Times)
 
Maps: "Close-Ups: Colorado and Maryland" -- In Bear Valley, the people's choice seems to be "none of the above." In Towson, voters said they were leaning toward Paul E. Tsongas. Maps of Colorado and Maryland show locations of Bear Valley, CO and Towson, MD.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AFFF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA FIRST FINANCIAL (54%); AMERICA FIRST FINANCIAL (54%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLORADO UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); GOVERNORS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); ENGINEERING (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (52%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (52%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK BILL CLINTON (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); JERRY BROWN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



73 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Moroccan King, a Friend of U.S., Rejects Hard Line Toward Libya

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RABAT, Morocco, Feb. 29

 BODY:
King Hassan II of Morocco, one of the Arab world's most pro-Western rulers, has proposed the establishment of an international court for terrorism cases, perhaps under United Nations auspices, to give two Libyans accused of blowing up Western airliners a fair trial "on neutral ground."
"If the accused were judged in Libya, that would not be credible," King Hassan said. "If they were judged by an American or English court, that, too, might not seem credible. Let's find a median solution." 
 The King added that "creating such a special court for terrorism might be an appropriate beginning of the new order."
 
Not Backing U.S. Stance
 The 62-year-old King, the leader of the only Arab country currently sitting on the United Nations Security Council, has had a long and friendly relationship with the United States. But he made clear that he is not prepared to support the Bush Administration's call for sanctions to force the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, to surrender the two Libyan Government employees whom Britain and the United States indicted last fall in the bombings of a Pan Am jet over Scotland in 1988 and a French jet over the Sahara in 1989.
In an interview on Thursday at the royal palace in Marrakesh, King Hassan said that while Morocco and Libya's other Arab neighbors had all had "trouble" with Colonel Qaddafi's Government, it would be extremely difficult for Egypt, Algeria or any neighboring state to condemn Libya or impose sanctions on it without proof of its complicity in the bombings.
Libya, he said, is a neighbor and ally, a member of the three-year-old Mahgreb union aimed at forging economic and political cooperation among North African states.
"Before a divorce in such a marriage," the King said, "you have to have proof that one party has cheated on the other."
 
Could Change Attitude
 But he said that if a special court was created and it concluded that the two Libyans were guilty and that Libya itself had ordered the destruction of the airliners, "I'll be the first to adopt a severe attitude toward Libya."
[The Libyan Foreign Minister, Ibrahim Mohammed Bashari, was reported by the Cairo radio on Sunday to have "mentioned the possible acceptance of a current proposal to try the two suspects in a neutral country," Reuters said. But the Arab League Secretary General, Esmat Abdel-Maguid, who met in the Egyptian capital with the Libyan, said there were no new developments, Reuters said.]
After the two Libyans were indicted, the United States, Britain and France persuaded a majority of the Security Council in January to approve a resolution calling on Libya to surrender the men for trial in the United States or Britain.
Washington and its allies are now set to press the Security Council for economic sanctions against Colonel Qaddafi's Government, which are said to include an embargo on airline flights to Libya.
Western diplomats in Rabat and Cairo agreed that there was little chance that the United States and its allies would consider King Hassan's compromise in lieu of sanctions if Libya continued refusing to turn over the agents.
"We won't accept attempts at diversion by accepting some other kind of trial that has no precedent in international law and no credibility in the U.S," one Western official said.
Colonel Qaddafi insists that the agents be tried in his country; the United States and Britain maintain the trial must take place in the United States or Britain. The International Court of Justice in The Hague, which some diplomats argued might be called on to try the Libyans, is not empowered to deal with such criminal cases.
King Hassan was equally firm in his opposition to any changes in the United Nations plan to end the 17-year dispute over sovereignty in Western Sahara, for which the Algerian-backed Polisario Front seeks independence and which Morocco claims.
The fate of the territory, a critical issue for King Hassan, was scheduled to be decided early this year by a referendum, sponsored by the United Nations, among Western Sahara inhabitants. But United Nations officials and a recent Senate Foreign Relations Committee report have concluded that given delays in implementing the United Nations peacekeeping plan, which is considered essential to conducting a fair vote, it is unlikely the referendum can be held before October.
King Hassan said such a delay was unacceptable. He said he expected the United Nations to adhere to the schedule and procedures outlined and approved by the Security Council at the end of 1991. If the United Nations fails to conduct the referendum by May or June, he said, he will hold his own national elections for his Parliament in the fall, "in all parts of Morocco, including the Western Sahara."
Arab diplomats familiar with the dispute said that such a move might jeopardize the fragile cease-fire between Morocco and the Polisario.
The new United Nations Secretary General, Boutros Ghali, is said to be working on a report on Western Sahara that may include not only a new schedule for the referendum, but also an alternative formula for who can vote that is more acceptable to the Polisario, which opposes the formula approved last year by the Security Council.
King Hassan warned that he had not requested a new report and would not abide by one. If the new Secretary General reopens the issue of Western Sahara, he said, "all U.N. Security Council resolutions, including those affecting Iraq, would be called into question."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); MOROCCO (94%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); ALGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (74%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); 

COMPANY: ;PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (68%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBYA; MOROCCO; UNITED STATES; GREAT BRITAIN UNITED STATES (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); MOROCCO (94%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); ALGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (74%); CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; EXTRADITION; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; TERRORISM ; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JUDITH; HASSAN II, KING OF MOROCCO; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ; QADDAFI, MUAMMAR EL- (COL) HASSAN II (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



74 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
DINKINS INCREASES SCHOOL SECURITY
Mayor Dinkins announced a $28 million program that would enhance security at the 40 most dangerous public high schools and middle schools in New York City. Speaking from the pulpit of a Baptist church in Brooklyn four days after two students were shot dead in a hallway at Thomas Jefferson High School in East New York, the Mayor said that the use of metal detectors would be expanded from a weekly to a daily basis at that school and that security would be tightened at 35 other schools. A1. 

DESPITE SECURITY PLAN, FEAR REMAINS
Worrying is a part of every parent's job, but schoolhouse violence, like the fatal shootings at Jefferson, has filled many parents with a growing anxiety. The measures the Mayor proposed to protect students did not entirely quell the fears they have about their children's safety at a time when violence creeps further up schoolyard steps. B3.
 
HOW DANGEROUS ARE THE CITY'S SCHOOLS?
Is the violence in New York City schools increasing? What is behind it? What can be done? These and other questions have haunted parents, educators, school officials and elected leaders in recent days as New York has absorbed yet another shock from its embattled school system. But interviews with students, teachers, administrators, union officials and security experts have reinforced the contention of many educators that there are no simple answers. B3.
 
ECHOES OF BROOKLYN'S VIOLENT PAST
The killings at Jefferson might at first seem shockingly unprecedented, but the crime and the suspects, the assumptions and the stereotypes, all have ancestors in Brooklyn's past. While some things about violence have changed, much has not. Metro Matters, B2.
 
DINKINS INTERVENES IN BROOKLYN DISPUTE
Mayor Dinkins has promised the leaders of Community Board 14 in Brooklyn that he would personally try to help end two years of disruptive, racially charged protests at the board's monthly meetings. Mr. Dinkins plans to meet this week with local elected officials and leaders of the board, which represents Flatbush and Midwood. Beyond that, neither the Mayor nor his aides have said what role he hoped to play in ending the protests, which have resulted in slurs, assaults and arrests. B2.
 
REGION
 
CHOOSING WHERE TO DIE
In recent years, more and more terminally ill patients are choosing to die at home, rejecting what they see as the futility and indignity of the hospital. These patients do not try to speed their deaths, but they do not try to prevent them either. It is not a choice for everyone. Even families who talk of cherished last moments which would have been impossible in a hospital also talk of the emotional and physical exhaustion of watching someone die. A1.
 
LOW MORALE AMONG LONG ISLAND POLICE
Being a police officer on Long Island, home of some of the nation's wealthiest suburbs, has long been regarded by law-enforcement professionals as a choice assignment. The wages are among the highest in the nation and the crime rate is among the lowest. But the troubled economy is rapidly changing things for officers in both the Nassau and Suffolk County departments, causing staff cuts, wage freezes and low morale just as the crime rate is on the rise. B5.
 
THE CURIOUS REDISTRICTING DANCE
The decennial rite of Congressional redistricting in New Jersey is supposedly driven by the high motive of making every voter equal under the principle of one-person, one-vote, but it is really about little else than raw political power. That became increasingly clear as legislative and party leaders continued the painful business of drawing a new map that eliminates one of the state's 14 members of the United States House of Representatives. News analysis, B5.
 
MAKING AN OLD LIBRARY NEW
In the 81 years since Andrew Carnegie's money built it, the library in Belleville, N.J., has been the one thing that remained largely intact, though its Georgian facade was obscured by a boxy brick addition. The library's board has now completed the sort of transformation that is relatively rare among Carnegie-sponsored library buildings. Belleville Journal, B5.
 
The Traffic Map B6
Chronicle B9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: THOMAS JEFFERSON HIGH SCHOOL (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAMPUS SECURITY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); METAL DETECTORS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); FAMILY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); 

PERSON: BROOKLYN DISPUTE (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



75 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Voters
In Two Regions With Primaries Tomorrow, the Primary Emotion is Anger;
Baltimore Suburb Seems to Prefer Tsongas Appeal

BYLINE: By JEFFREY SCHMALZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOWSON, Md., March 1

 BODY:
Yes, many people in this Baltimore suburb aren't exactly sure what his name is. And, yes, they aren't exactly sure what his policies are. But they know one thing about Paul E. Tsongas: They're leaning toward voting for him.
"I like that guy with the funny name that has a 'G' in it," said Allan Cohn, a 39-year-old insurance salesman.
Tsongas? he was asked. 
 "That's him -- he's the one. Tsongas," Mr. Cohn said, repeating the name as if to help himself remember it. "He seems genuine, real."
Two days is a long time in politics, and by Tuesday, when Maryland holds its primary, a candidate's friend may have become an enemy. But for now, on the streets and in the homes of this white-collar Baltimore suburb where Democrats outnumber Republicans 2 to 1, choices are being made not so much from the intellect as from the gut. That, it turns out, bodes well for Mr. Tsongas and ill for his closest rival, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas.
 
Comparing the Candidates
 "Tsongas has a strength from living with problems," said Jeanne Stevenson, a 68-year-old retired apartment manager. "He had cancer. His father was an immigrant who struggled. Clinton? I don't know, there's something uncomfortable about the man. My inner sense is there's something under the surface."
Jay Klein, 38, who works for a collection agency, had a similar problem with Mr. Clinton. "It's hard to pin down," Mr. Klein said. "There's something about him I don't trust."
In chats with more than 70 people -- 50 of them Democrats -- in their living rooms and offices and on street corners, most of the Democrats supported Mr. Tsongas, a former Senator from Massachusetts. Seven backed Mr. Clinton. No one said they planned to vote for Senators Bob Kerrey of Nebraska or Tom Harkin of Iowa, or for former Gov. Edmund G. Brown of California. All three candidates have run minimal campaigns in Maryland.
Time and again, Clinton opponents said their decision was based not on questions of whether Mr. Clinton had an extramarital affair with Gennifer Flowers or about a letter he wrote during the Vietnam War epressing opposition to the draft. Instead, they used words like "too slick" or "just another politican" or "too driven."
 
An Erosion of Trusct
 But it seemed likely those perceptions were part of an erosion of trust rooted in the allegations of infidelity and draft evasion. Nearly everyone in town, even those who groped for the name "Tsongas," readily knew the name "Gennifer Flowers."
Not everyone, of course, was smitten by Mr. Tsongas. "I'm voting for Clinton," said Craig Horn, a 30-year-old investment counselor. "I like him. Tsongas is a Republican in disguise. But no one knows Clinton, other than the furor over the controversies."
If some people seemed a bit guilty about their conclusions -- and some did -- it remained their conclusions nonetheless.
Elsie Heyrman, 39, a computer programmer, said: " There's no way I'll vote for Clinton. It's not Gennifer Flowers or the draft. My brother was a conscientious objector; I remember how complicated all that was. Clinton's letter was moving. I liked him for it. But he's dead. Let's face it, he's never going to be President of the United States. I'm not wasting my vote."
All this is not to say that the issues are not considered. Mr. Tsongas is perceived here as offering the best plan for turning the economy around. But even when campaign issues crop up, they are often framed not only on their own merits, but also as reflections of character.
"Tsongas is willing to take a chance," Charlotte Snyder, a 44-year-old librarian, said of the candidate's opposition to a middle-class tax cut. "He's got the moxie to look people in the face and say we're going to have to work hard to make things better."
At once Southern and Northern, its accents changing from speaker to speaker and from block to block, Towson (the first syllable rhymes with how) is not typical of Maryland. While most statewide polls put Mr. Tsongas ahead of Mr. Clinton by about 10 points, the former Senator's level of support seems larger here, consistent with the vote in the New Hampshire primary that had him running especially strong in white upscale areas like this one.
Still, Towson is like much of America. It seems to be in the middle of an architectural wrestling match, the coupolas on its 19th-century buildings trying and failing to stave off the sleek new steel-amd-glass office buildings.
Downtown is yesterday: an Elks lodge and the 1855 courthouse, and the bells of the Church of the Immaculate Conception filling the noon air. On the periphery of the town is today: the new mall and the occasional homeless beggar and the traffic without end along the endless highway strip of fast-food restaurants and convenience stores.
For Helen Little, a 70-year-old Republican who is a retired teacher, there is a similarity between the town and the nation: a fine past, but a present that is not horrible but is not as good as the past.
"Everything isn't as nice as it used to be," she said in a walk around town, referring to both Towson and the United States.
 
Disappointment With Bush
 Like some Republicans here, she groped for ways to support President Bush. "I blame Bush and I don't blame him. I think he should be able to cut government, but I know it can't be done."
Some seemed to treat him as a nice boy who had not lived up to their hopes. But others viewed the President as a bit of a brat who needed to be spanked. Now it's into the woodshed with Patrick J. Buchanan.
"Reagan and Bush lied to me," said Tom Bodie, a 51-year-old lawyer. "They said they would dismantle the bureaucracy, and their way of doing that was the savings-and-loan mess. I'm going to vote for Buchanan to send a message loud and clear to George Bush to get his act together."
Marcia Jakovicks, 46, a bank manager, said she was tired of politicians. "As a young person I was in awe of the Kennedys, and I was buffaloed," she asserted. "George Bush has tried, but he's a politician. I'm voting for Ruchanon simply because he's not a politician."
Then she laughed and said: "That's quite a leap, isn't it? From the Kennedys to Pat Buchanan."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Let's face it, he's never going to be President of the United States," said Elsie Heyrman, in Towson, Md., saying she would not vote for Gov. Bill Clinton; "I like that guy with the funny name that has a 'G' in it," said Allan Cohn, an insurance salesmen in Towson, Md., referring to Paul Tsongas. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times)
 
Maps: "Close-Ups: Colorado and Maryland" -- In Bear Valley, the people's choice seems to be "none of the above." In Towson, voters said they were leaning toward Paul E. Tsongas. Maps of Colorado and Maryland show locations of Bear Valley, CO and Towson, MD.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MARYLAND; TOWSON (MD) UNITED STATES (98%); MARYLAND, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMALZ, JEFFREY; TSONGAS, PAUL E BILL CLINTON (92%); TOM HARKIN (57%); JERRY BROWN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



76 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: American Express Gold For Mexico

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 1

 BODY:
Betting on free trade in North America and a boom in the consumer credit market here, the American Express Company and Mexico's largest bank have joined in a new partnership to provide financial services in Mexico.
With considerable fanfare, American Express and Banco Nacional de Mexico S.A. on Friday announced a relatively modest first venture: the issuance through Banamex, as the bank is known, of American Express gold cards. 
 Top officials of the companies said the addition of other products and services was only a matter of time.
"The company that we have agreed to form represents a strategic alliance," said Roberto Hernandez, the stockbroker who led a group of investors in buying 70.7 percent of Banamex from the Government last year for $3.2 billion.
 
33% of Card Business
 With the Visa cards and Mastercards it offers, Banamex already controls about a third of the credit-card market that it shares about evenly with Bancomer, the country's leading retail banker, and a group of smaller banks in a consortium called Carnet.
Besides the strength of the American Express trademark, the charge-card arrangement could offer Banamex help in improving the outdated system of credit scoring, or evaluating customers' credit risks, that has hindered the industry in Mexico.
"The challenge brought on by the formation of a single economic block in North America requires us to be prepared to defend the clientele that we have built up through so much effort and cost," Mr. Hernandez said.
While the privatization of Mexico's banks and the prospects for a North American free-trade agreement have heightened interest in the financial-services market here, Mexican officials and foreign diplomats acknowledge that ratification of a trade pact this year is hardly certain.
 
Outlook for Trade Pact
 For the moment, Mexican, American and Canadian negotiators are still at considerable odds in a half-dozen of the 18 working groups. Mexican officials, who have the most to gain from an accord, continue to insist publicly that the remaining differences between the sides can be sorted out in as little as three weeks.
That would allow the Bush Administration to notify Congress of its intention to submit the treaty in time, perhaps, to get one ratified by the summer's end or early fall.
Even that sort of timing would force the agreement through a difficult course of political obstacles in the United States, where it is opposed by organized labor, and in Canada, where Prime Minister Brian Mulroney has watched his approval ratings plummet almost to single digits.
Along with agriculture, automobiles, textiles and energy, the issue of foreign investment in financial services has been one of the most contentious areas of the negotiation, officials of the three countries say.
 
Mexico's Proposal
 According to a copy of a Mexican proposal that was made available to a newspaper here last week, the Mexican Government would like to keep American and Canadian banks and brokerages from operating in Mexico until 1998 to give the new owners time to make their enterprises more competitive.
But banking analysts say the bullish prices that the Government has so far obtained for the 18 banks it is selling reflect a confidence that while foreign banks might establish subsidiaries here to provide wholesale and investment services, they will have a hard time challenging Mexican banks in the retail market.
And as the consumer credit market has boomed, the charge-card business has boomed with it. The country's credit bureau, known by the initials C.I.C.S.A., processed 90,000 card applications last year, compared with 20,000 in 1987.
 
500,000 Cards Planned
 Mr. Hernandez said the joint-venture company, known as Banamsa, expected to issue 500,000 American Express gold cards, which could be used in Mexico and abroad, over three years. About 450,000 Mexicans now have American Express cards, 110,000 of them gold cards.
Two financial-services analysts here said that for American Express, which has operated in Mexico since 1852, the partnership with Banamex would strengthen its ability to market and distribute new services. The bank has 720 branches around the country and long relationships with many wealthy customers. Acciones y Valores de Mexico S.A., Mr. Hernandez's brokerage, has a similarly prized client list.
"By combining their powerful customer franchise with our global products and services, this partnership will meet the increasing demands of the dynamic Mexican market," said the chairman and chief executive of American Express, James D. Robinson 3d, who was in Mexico for the announcement.
American Express, based in New York, began issuing similar co-branded cards last year with Lloyd's Bank of London and the Sumitomo Bank of Japan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (95%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (95%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; BANCO NACIONAL DE MEXICO AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (95%); BANCO NACIONAL DE MEXICO SA (91%); GRUPO FINANCIERO BANAMEX/ACCIVAL SA DE CV (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; BANCO NACIONAL DE MEXICO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS CREDIT CARDS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (68%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM ROBERTO HERNANDEZ (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



77 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Mini-bonds Draw Small Investors

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Despite a gloomy economic outlook and a four-year financial plan that ratings agencies and New York State officials say is based on shaky revenue assumptions, this week thousands of small investors are expected to give New York City a big vote of confidence.
As part of a $950 million offering of tax-exempt and taxable securities expected by midweek, the city is set to reserve a portion of the securities for small investors. The city will designate $100 million worth of the offering for sale at prices as low as $1,200 for a $5,000 bond due in 20 years, far less than the $25,000 minimum purchase at most securities firms. 
 When the new program was announced in early February, it was to earmark $50 million of tax-exempt bonds for small investors, but because the demand was so strong, the size of the so-called "N.Y.C. mini-bond" issue was doubled.
 
Promotional Campaign
 The hugely positive response to the bonds is not only a testament to the low yields currently offered on most taxable securities but also to a concerted marketing effort by the city and the group of eight securities firms chosen to handle the issue.
To reach potential investors, the city included notices of the new bond program in pension checks mailed last month to more than 240,000 retired city workers. In addition, a special toll-free number, 1-800-874-3645, was created to take calls from those wanting more information.
Jim Daniels, a spokesman for Prudential Securities, the firm that is leading the mini-bond underwriting, said that as of late Thursday night more than 28,000 calls had been placed to the toll-free number. He added that the number would remain open through today.
"We had 4,000 calls on Wednesday alone," he said. "Everybody is buying these things. We think the city has a hit on its hands."
Thus far, the telephone calls have generated verbal commitments for $68 million face amount of bonds, Mr. Daniels said. While aimed at investors who can commit far less, the average order has been $6,600, he said, an amount that would purchase $13,700 face amount of the zero-coupon bonds.
 
Must Be Held
 The initial purchase price is far below the value at maturity because zero-coupon bonds do not pay interest every six months, like traditional city bonds. With zero-coupon bonds, the interest for investors is the difference between the purchase price and the face amount the city promises to pay when the bonds reach maturity.
Because prices of zero-coupon securities can fluctuate widely before maturity, financial advisers recommend them primarily to investors who will not need to sell early and want to save for an anticipated expense, like buying a home or paying for a child's education.
The mini-bonds will carry maturities from 5 to 20 years and will carry yields reflective of the city's precarious financial position. Leading agencies lowered their ratings on city debt securities last year.
In advance of this week's bond sale, the Standard & Poor's Corporation last week reaffirmed its rating of A-, but with a negative outlook, meaning there is a chance of a downgrade. Moody's Investors Service Inc., the other leading ratings agency, is expected to consider today whether it will change its current Baa-1 rating on the city's debt. Both ratings are almost at the bottom of what is considered investment grade.
Analysts and New York State officials like Comptroller Edward V. Regan are leery about the city's prospects because the economy, while probably no longer deteriorating, is not showing signs of reviving soon.
Many analysts are worried that the deficit projections in the city's latest four-year financial plan for 1992 and beyond are overly optimistic.
In a report issued last week on the new plan, Mr. Regan said that in making its projections, the Dinkins administration made unrealistic assumptions on the amount of Federal and state aid the city would receive and on the size of wage concessions it would be likely to receive from municipal unions.
"There are some positive aspects of the plan," Ken Kurtz, an analyst at Moody's said, "but there are also uncertainties."
The city has never defaulted on its bonds, and investment professionals agree the chances of that occurring are remote. Nevertheless, its well-publicized financial problems and heavy borrowing needs will force the city to pay much higher interest rates than most local governments.
As of late last week, Mr. Daniels said discussions about the pricing of the mini-bonds maturing in 1997 put yields at around 6.50 percent out to a maximum yield of 7.25 percent on securities maturing in 2012.
 
Attractive Yields
 The attractiveness of those tax-exempt yields becomes clearer when compared with the yields the city will probably have to pay on the $150 million worth of taxable bonds included in this week's offerings.
Even though interest rate differentials between taxable securities and Treasury issues have narrowed in recent weeks, Betsy Pugh, a vice president at the First Boston Corporation, said the yields on taxable city bonds maturing in 1999 would likely be 1.75 percentage points more than seven-year Treasury yields. On securities maturing in 2010, yields are likely to be 2.10 percentage points more than 30-year Treasury bonds.
As of late last week, seven-year Treasury notes were priced to yield 6.91 percent. Late Friday, Treasury bond yields stood at 7.79 percent.
First Boston is acting as lead manager on the regular $850 million offering of taxable and tax-exempt city securities.
Ms. Pugh said maximum yields on tax-exempt bonds not sold as part of the mini-bond program are likely to be 7.75 percent on securities maturing in 2019, the same level the city agreed to pay on Dec. 18, the last time it offered debt securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (54%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (54%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TAX LAW (76%); BOND MARKETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (74%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N JIM DANIELS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



78 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Republicans;
Buchanan Has Bush Allies Anxious in Georgia

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 1

 BODY:
Struggling to hold the line against Patrick J. Buchanan, President Bush swept through Georgia this weekend urging Republican primary voters to reject the politics of protest and "send this President back for four more years."
The President's anxious courtship signified the stakes in Tuesday's primary here and the clear concern among the President's allies over the outcome. Georgia marks the first head-to-head contest between Mr. Bush and the conservative commentator since New Hampshire. Mr. Buchanan's attack commercials have turned it into a bitter affair and helped produce the extraordinary spectacle of a President encamped for the weekend in a primary state. 
 There is considerable disagreement among Mr. Bush's advisers and allies over how much of a problem he faces here, with many, including Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, projecting that Mr. Buchanan could win a percentage in the mid-30's, but others are projecting both better and worse showings for the President. Still, a veteran Southern Republican close to the Bush campaign asserted that the outlook here was considerably better for the President than it seemed last week.
 
'Galvanized the Female Vote'
 Since then, the Bush campaign has taken to the airwaves with commercials that highlight Mr. Buchanan's opposition to the use of force in the Persian Gulf and some of his controversial statements over the years, including the suggestion that women were psychologically unsuited for certain jobs. "We've completely galvanized the female vote with this ad," said the Southern Republican, who spoke on the condition that he not be identified.
The Bush allies were also arguing, again and again, that Mr. Buchanan's ultimate defeat was simply a matter of time. Paul Coverdell, the former Peace Corps director and a candidate for the United States Senate here, said Mr. Buchanan could attract 30 percent to 39 percent of the vote here but added, "The point is George Bush is going to win every delegate in the state of Georgia, and he's going to go to South Carolina and do the same thing."
Pointing to the stage where the President was about to speak, Mr. Coverdell added, "At some point, I expect to see the President to be standing up there, and Pat Buchanan to be standing up there with him, understanding what we have to do to preserve a conservative Government."
The battle between Mr. Bush and Mr. Buchanan here has a far different tone from the economically driven struggle in New Hampshire; in Georgia, Mr. Buchanan has emphasized issues like racial quotas and Federal financing for the arts, while Mr. Bush has countered with an appeal to the South's military tradition and also emphasized the "bedrock belief in family and in faith, in community and in country"
Today was emblematic. Both Mr. Bush and Mr. Buchanan began with church, a nod to the power of the conservative Christian vote in this primary. Mr. Bush attended the 9 A.M. service at Atlanta's First Baptist Church, presided over by Dr. Charles F. Stanley, who has an active television ministry. Mr. Stanley introduced the President and Mrs. Bush as "very special guests" and said he had shared with Mr. Bush his favorite artwork: a rendering of Daniel, with his gaze fixed on a ray of light, impervious to the lions.
But Mr. Bush seemed unable to ignore the lions.
In Savannah today, he talked of opponents who would "run from the new realities, seek refuge in a world of protectionism, or high taxes, or even bigger government." In Atlanta on Saturday, he talked of "those talking heads out there, the folks who don't seem to feel good unless they find something bad to say about the country."
One of the biggest unknowns here is the impact of Mr. Buchanan's television campaign, which has accused Mr. Bush of financing "pornographic and blasphemous art" through the National Endowment for the Arts and of backing a "quota bill" that was "closing doors" on American children. The advertisement refers to the civil rights legislation passed by Congress last year and signed into law by Mr. Bush. Its supporters, Democratic and Republican, vehemently denied that it would encourage racial quotas in the workplace.
Some Republicans asserted that Mr. Buchanan's appeals would backfire, particularly among Republican primary voters in Atlanta's suburbs. Gov. Carroll Campbell of South Carolina, a top Bush ally, asserted today that it was demeaning that Mr. Buchanan would come to the South and talk about issues as if "this was some tobacco road and we were all a bunch of boobs."
But other politicians aligned with Mr. Bush worried that the commercials, including the one about the endowment for the arts, could take a toll on Mr. Bush, especially in rural Georgia.
Another big unknown is who will vote in the Republican primary, since this is a state where Democrats and Republicans can cross party lines on Election Day. Some Democrats suggested Mr. Buchanan's campaign was gaining among the Democrats who were backers of Ronald Reagan in rural Georgia. John Henry Anderson, a former state Democratic chairman, said, "People are so upset with President Bush that they're looking for an opportunity to vote against him twice."
Mr. Buchanan had spent much of last week in South Georgia, hitting small towns and cities, striking a range of themes, from arts financing to foreign aid, which he assails as an unfair allocation of taxpayer dollars. His campaign was rich with symbolism, including a visit to a Confederate memorial at Stone Mountain on Saturday. Mr. Buchanan also, repeatedly, hit racially oriented themes.
Mr. Buchanan asserted that the Voting Rights Act was "an act of regional discrimination against the South" and said all states should "be under the same laws." The law, intended to counter decades of systematic denial of the franchise to blacks, requires that certain states, most of them in the South, undergo special Federal scrutiny of their election laws.
Mr. Bush's trip this weekend seemed aimed at both shoring up party regulars and the party's conservative wing. He seemed almost wistful in Savannah today. "Since the day I took the oath of office, I've made it my duty to work for what is right for America," he said. "I go back to what my mother says, 'Try your hardest, do your best.' Well, let me tell you something -- I'm not done yet."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GEORGIA UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (67%); RACE & RACISM (50%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J GEORGE W BUSH (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



79 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Democrats;
Candidates Go on Attack, Mostly Gently, in 3 Debates

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: COLLEGE PARK, Md., March 1

 BODY:
For the second straight day, Bill Clinton and Paul E. Tsongas, front-runners in the contest for the Democratic Presidential nomination, came under attack today in a pair of televised debates in primary states, one in Georgia and the other in Maryland.
In Atlanta this morning, Mr. Clinton, the Governor of Arkansas, and former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California criticized Mr. Tsongas's tax proposals, which include cuts in capital gains taxes. Mr. Tsongas, the former Massachusetts Senator, did not counterattack. But Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska again raised the touchy issue of the military draft with Mr. Clinton and accused him of giving "a baloney answer" on health care. 
 Tonight, at the University of Maryland here, Mr. Tsongas was again assailed for his economic views, which his rivals compared to those of President Bush. Mr. Clinton's record on the environment in Arkansas was also roundly criticized, and he responded in kind, mocking his accusers.
But today's debates were relatively mild. Nothing was nearly as personal as the melee on Saturday night in Denver, when Mr. Tsongas and Mr. Clinton tore into each other with a fury that dismayed many senior party officials. The trigger was Mr. Clinton's assault on Mr. Tsongas's limited support of nuclear power.
"No one can argue with you, Paul; you're always perfect," Mr. Clinton said sarcastically, looking to the audience for confirmation.
Mr. Tsongas replied: "I'm not perfect. But I'm honest."
Coming after four days of verbal pitched battles among the candidates, the hostile tone of the Colorado debate produced calls from Democratic leaders for an armistice, and Mr. Tsongas appealed to his rivals to join in an agreement not to use any more attack commercials. That produced no results, but the candidates treated each other more politely today.
Seven states hold primaries or caucuses on Tuesday, with 380 national convention delegates at stake. At the same time, American Samoa will hold caucuses to choose six delegates with half a vote each.
Mr. Clinton is ahead in Georgia, according to polls of Democrats, with Mr. Tsongas a rather distant second, but there are doubts about how many of the Clinton backers will actually vote. Voters can cross party lines for primary voting, and some rural conservatives, it is said, may choose to vote instead for Patrick J. Buchanan in the Republican primary, and many blacks may stay home.
 
Brown Strong in Colorado
 In Maryland and Colorado, Mr. Tsongas has taken a narrow lead over Mr. Clinton. Maryland, where The Baltimore Sun endorsed Mr. Tsongas today, is considered a two-man race. But in Colorado Mr. Brown is nipping at the heels of the two leaders, with 19 percent in a Denver Post poll that was published this morning, as against 26 percent for Mr. Tsongas and 24 percent for Mr. Clinton.
Washington, which will hold caucuses rather than a primary, is considered a toss-up, but there, too, Mr. Brown is doing much better than anticipated with his grass-roots campaign, fueled by attacks on the influence of big money on elections.
Another caucus state, Minnesota, has been heavily organized by Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, with the help of freshman Senator Paul Wellstone. Mr. Harkin, short of money, skipped the Georgia debate but took part here.
Idaho and Utah are the other two caucus states on Tuesday's schedule.
The candidate with the most to lose on Tuesday may be Mr. Kerrey. As he said today the ABC News program "This Week," he has made "a strategic decision to spend the next three or four days in the West." He took part in the Atlanta debate by television link and skipped the College Park event when its organizers declined to allow him to do the same thing here.
The Nebraskan's problem is that for all his concentration in the West, he seems to making little impact there. In Colorado, for example, the Post's poll shows him at 7 percent, trailing "undecided and uncommitted." He campaigned in Salt Lake City today, hoping perhaps to spring an upset there.
 
Questions on Public Service
 In the Georgia debate, Mr. Kerrey asked Mr. Clinton how he could justify his backing of a program that would allow the repayment of college loans through public service when he had not served his country in Vietnam or spent time in the Peace Corps. Mr. Clinton has apparently suffered in the patriotic South because he did not serve, and Mr. Kerrey said this week that that would make him "an unelectable nominee" in the general election.
"I opposed that war," said Mr. Clinton of the conflict in which Mr. Kerrey lost part of a leg and won the Congressional Medal of Honor. "I thought it was a terrible mistake."
When Mr. Kerrey also attacked Mr. Clinton's ideas on health care, the Arkansas Governor responded with criticism of Mr. Kerrey's own health care program, which he said included "nine separate tax increases."
But it was Mr. Tsongas, who seems within reach of establishing himself as a national rather than a regional contender, who attracted most of the critical comment in the Atlanta debate. The chief topic was Mr. Tsongas's opposition to a middle-class tax cut, which Mr. Clinton strongly favors.
Mr. Tsongas would use the proceeds of higher taxes on the rich not to cut taxes for the middle class but to pay for reductions in capital gains taxes, which he says are needed to rebuild the economy. Mr. Clinton said the defining question was "whether you give it to the middle class or to people who buy stocks," attempting to link Mr. Tsongas to the upper classes.
Then Mr. Brown, who favors a flat tax, joined in with the comment, "Lollipops for business are no better than lollipops for the middle class."
During a stop at his Atlanta headquarters, Mr. Tsongas told his supporters that he was different from his party's 1988 nominee, without mentioning Michael S. Dukakis, another Massachusetts Democrat, by name. His negative ads and his sharp riposte on Saturday night, Mr. Tsongas said, showed that "in a situation when the campaign has gotten very rough, this is one Greek who fights back."
One person in the crowd held a sign that said, "I'm Not Perfect, I'm Honest." Another supporter, Jennifer Kasper, a 32-year-old architect, said of the former Senator, "He's like a bad-tasting pill that you have to take to get rid of a sickness."
At the Salem Baptist Church, Mr. Tsongas got a muted reception from the black congregation. The pastor, the Rev. Jesper Williams, hugged him, but did not issue the endorsement that the Tsongas entourage had predicted.
Also in pursuit of black votes, Mr. Clinton visited two black churches before heading for the Carter Center for the Georgia debate. At one of them, the Ebeneezer Baptist Church, where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was pastor for many years, Kerrey supporters greeted him with critical placards.
A few hours later, at College Park, just outside the District of Columbia, the liberal Mr. Harkin took the offensive. He accused Mr. Tsongas and others of advocating "trickle-down economics" on the Reagan-Bush model and said that the Democrats had to stop trying to behave like Republicans.
 
Environmental Record 'a Joke'
 There was a fair amount of wrangling over economic issues, but no real personal venom until Mr. Tsongas said, "I've answered every question and I've never mentioned anyone's name." Mr. Harkin quickly told him he had started the name-calling months ago and said he should stop being "sanctimonious."
Then the Iowan described the record of Arkansas on the environment as "a joke" and told Mr. Clinton that "flowery speeches" were inadequate. Mr. Brown joined in attacking Mr. Clinton, accusing him of supporting businesses that polluted. Mr. Clinton shot back the suggestion that people look at the record and not pay attention to "people behind in the polls."
Mr. Clinton drew applause from the audience when he accused Mr. Buchanan of racist behavior and said Mr. Bush "has not called him on it." No Democratic candidate, the Arkansan said, would play the racial card.
Mr. Tsongas said today's debates, with charge and rebuttal among the candidates, had worked well and had not damaged the Democratic Party.
Both of today's debates were carried on the C-Span cable television network, and the Maryland event was broadcast on local public television.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Candidates for the Democratic Presidential nomination gathered at the Carter Center in Atlanta yesterday before taping a debate that was to be televised later in the evening. They were, from the left, former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr., Gov. Bill Clinton and former Senator Paul E. Tsongas. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); AMERICAN SAMOA (57%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (96%); COLORADO, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY BALTIMORE SUN NEWSPAPERS (51%); CARTER CENTER (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY CARTER CENTER (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLORADO UNITED STATES (96%); AMERICAN SAMOA (57%); MARYLAND, USA (96%); COLORADO, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); TAX LAW (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (71%); CONSERVATISM (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); TSONGAS, PAUL E BILL CLINTON (93%); JERRY BROWN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



80 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: BELLEVILLE JOURNAL;
Restoring Heritage and Raising Hopes for Future

BYLINE: By CHARLES STRUM

DATELINE: BELLEVILLE, N.J.

 BODY:
IN the 81 years since Andrew Carnegie's money built a library here, prosperity has come and gone in this blue-collar community of small stores, empty factories and modest houses packed closely on narrow streets.
What remained largely intact was the library, as squat and staunch as so many municipal structures of its era, a massive piece of brick and masonry that once stood out for its grandeur and now barely stands out at all, its Georgian facade obscured by a boxy brick addition. 
 Staring into the drabness of the main commercial boulevard, Washington Street, the library was a utilitarian set of rooms whose interior reflected the bleak business climate outside. Dingy dropped ceilings, old paint and peeling brown and tan floor tiles formed the setting for a hodgepodge of tables, chairs and bookcases washed in harsh fluorescent lighting, an effect the director, David Bryant, called the "East German look."
But the false front and indoor clutter did not obscure the ideal the original building was meant to glorify. Despite hard times, Mr. Bryant and the library board, aided by several generous bequests, combined to meet, for the second time in nine decades, the only real requirement Carnegie ever attached to his gifts. He asked that the buildings he financed "look like libraries," Mr. Bryant said.
The result is a remodeled main reading room that looks nothing like the original, which Mr. Bryant described as an austere white plaster vault with 15-foot ceilings. What it resembles now is a grand temple for books and readers, a fantasy of classical design elements that were the vision of James J. Cozzarelli Jr., an interior designer and president of the library board, who donated his time.
With a glance at the ceiling murals, Len Andrews, a cook from Nutley who browses through volumes of recipes, said, "The first time I came in I thought someone was looking over my shoulder."
And so there is. He is a muscular young man who in a series of panels across the ceiling receives knowledge and eventually the power of wisdom from an old sage who directs him in his quest. This scene, painted on canvas by Stephen Bianco Rodriguez of Piscataway, was assembled on the ceiling like pieces of a puzzle, its figures gazing down on fluted pilasters, gilded capitals and denticulated pediments in tans and reds.
Mr. Cozzarelli, who had already remodeled the children's room and other library spaces, calls it "a cathedral for knowledge to improve people, to vault them to greater thoughts." For this, he said, he joined "classical design and high-tech fusion."
A sentimental link with the library's past appears at the front of the Carnegie Room. Mr. Cozzarelli said old-timers expressed regret that the 1981 addition obscured the pediment and columns framing the entryway. So he designed interior substitutes. Though freestanding, like a sculpture, they are anchored visually by a large desk designed to resemble an altar. It is the librarian's, and her chair is a stylized throne.
The renovation, including structural repair and duct work, came to more than $300,000, with only about $40,000 from the town budget, an expenditure that provoked a manageable amount of concern from some taxpayers who feared the possibility of being bankrupted in a recession by a gang of free-spending esthetes.
The Belleville Public Library's transformation is relatively rare in the rarefied world of Carnegie-sponsored library buildings. Dr. George Bobinksi, dean of the School of Information and Library Studies at the State University at Buffalo, says 1,681 libraries were built with Carnegie money, mostly between 1898 and 1917.
In a survey, he found that at least 1,554 of the buildings still exist, with only 911 of these still in use as public libraries. At least 276 of the survivors are unchanged, while 243 have been demolished, 286 have been expanded and 175 have been remodeled. Others have been turned into condominiums, community centers or shops.
Belleville's library began as so many town libraries did, with volunteers. Here, they were from the Tuesday Afternoon Reading Club, which eventually set up a storefront library. By 1909, a site at Academy and Washington Streets had been acquired from the town, Carnegie had donated $20,000, and a local architect, Charles Granville Jones, had been hired.
At the dedication of the Carnegie Room yesterday, Mr. Bryant spoke of the library's potential to help "enchant, comfort or so liberate the mind" of a young person that he or she "will emerge from here a thinker, a caring individual, with an insightful mind, who may win a Nobel Prize."
But he was also clearly thinking of hopes for Belleville's rebirth when he praised the remodeling as an "effort to achieve civic greatness -- pulling it off on a modest budget."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The reading room of the Belleville (N.J.) Public Library, which was redesigned in accord with Andrew Carnegie's requirement. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey showing location of Belleville.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BELLEVILLE (NJ) UNITED STATES (68%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; INTERIOR DESIGN LIBRARIES (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (75%); PAINTING (74%); OFFICE DESIGN (73%); 

PERSON: CARNEGIE, ANDREW (1835-1919); STRUM, CHARLES; COZZARELLI, JAMES J JR DAVID BRYANT (80%); ANDREW CARNEGIE (80%); JAMES J COZZARELLI JR (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



81 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1942 words

HEADLINE: With Help From Local Governments, U.S. Industry Tries to Remake Itself

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MONROVIA, Calif., March 1

 BODY:
The nondescript gray building behind a macadamia nut tree looks like most other industrial plants at the foot of the San Gabriel Mountains east of Los Angeles. But inside, 19 workers are drawing a vision of a brave new economic world that will not depend on producing weapons of war.
They work for a tiny new company that is designing a prototype electric car, part of a new technology that many leaders in Southern California see as their main hope for retooling an economy that has long boomed with war and slumped with peace. In an age of peace, the challenge for this and many other regions is to find something to replace missiles, bombers and fighter jets. 
 The company, Amerigon Inc., is not just another infant company struggling for breath. It is being carefully nurtured, both financially and politically, by government.
Across the country, similar efforts take many forms, because there is little agreement on how or whether government should play a role in this conversion to peacetime industries. In the St. Louis area, leaders are pushing their economy toward biotechnology and commercial aviation; on Long Island, the goal is technology exports and a new cargo airport; in southeastern Connecticut, it is hydrogen as an energy source, and in Fort Worth, commercial aircraft servicing.
In each case, local entities rather than Washington are the driving force. Unlike in Japan, where the government takes a strong hand in directing certain industries, the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George Bush have taken the view that a free market is the best shaper of the new economy. But in a time of recession, and with Democrats searching for issues, there are calls for greater government involvement.
 
Washington Gives Help, Up to a Point
The Bush Administration recently announced it would provide $50 million in grants through the Commerce Department to help localities hit by military base closings or cutbacks plan economic strategies. But Washington has avoided "industrial policy," the practice used by Japan and some European companies whereby the national government supports development of particular industries. But many localities are developing industrial policies that resemble what is done in Japan, Germany and Italy.
"We are starting to say we've got to take control of our destiny, that we cannot rely on Washington," said Jack Kyser, chief economist at the Economic Development Corporation of Los Angeles County.
It remains to be seen whether these efforts will bear fruit, or bring much relief to older, highly-paid workers whose skills are no longer needed. Military industries have long been insulated from competition, and many economists say their leadership and engineers are ill-equipped to transfer their skills.
As many as 2.5 million military-related jobs could be eliminated over the next 10 years, according to a report released Feb. 21 by the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment.
Nowhere is the effect larger than here in Southern California. Gary Conley, president of the Economic Development Corporation, told a state legislative hearing recently that Los Angeles County alone stood to lose as many as 580,000 jobs, one in every seven in the county, as a result of military cutbacks by 1996. "We are looking at a crisis of a dimension this state has never experienced," he said.
 
An Effort to Save Industrial Foundation
 Several efforts have been mounted by local agencies to prevent the manufacturing base from dissolving. In January, the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission, canceling a contract for new rail cars it had awarded to a Japanese company, began exploring the possibility of using its money to stimulate a local mass-transit manufacturing industry.
The Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors created the Los Angeles Aerospace Task Force in 1990, with the mission of devising ways to retrain idled aerospace workers and find new industries. The task force recently urged the state Legislature to create a California venture development fund, a profit-making entity that would back new companies looking for commercial applications of military technology. The state would gain equity in a company, which it could sell if the venture prospered.
But the prospect of state or local governments' becoming part owners of new businesses is one that leaves many economists cold. Murray Weidenbaum, a former adviser to President Reagan who is director of the Center for the Study of American Business at Washington University in St. Louis, said that local governments could legitimately give grants or offer contracts and credits to certain types of new companies, but that governments were ill-suited to own or manage them. "It would be presumptuous of me to tell California how to spend money, but I wonder why they need government ownership," he said.
As these issues are sorted out, Amerigon is forging ahead with its electric car. Workers here in Monrovia tinker with what for now looks like a fancy dune buggy. The first goal is to produce a "showcase" vehicle to stimulate local companies to produce components.
The electric car industry is particularly appealing to Southern California because it holds out dual promises of creating a major industry and cleaning up smog-fouled air. Amerigon has received a $375,000 grant from the South Coast Air Quality Management District, the state agency that has ordered that non-polluting vehicles -- presumably electric -- be phased in starting in 1999. The company is seeking $4 million more from a new program by which the California Public Employees Retirement System plans to invest some of its $60 billion in assets in new California companies.
 
U.S. May Have Edge Over Germany and Japan
 The founder of Amerigon, Lon E. Bell, is a mechanical engineer who in 1967 founded Technar, which manufactures sensors for automobile seat-belt retractors and air bags. The company, now owned by TRW, has captured half the world market for such devices.
If electric vehicles replace the internal combustion engine worldwide, Mr. Bell argues, the United States has an advantage over Japan and Germany, which lack a mature aerospace industry and the skills linked to it. He says electric cars, like airplanes, must be lightweight, efficient and reliable, and use much of the same electrical air-conditioning and heating technology. The skills to convert to such an industry, he went on, exist not only in Southern California but also in Long Island, Massachusetts, Texas and other regions.
Working with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers union, Amerigon has identified skills needed to make electric cars and available in the Los Angeles area. Southern California is already home for 19 automobile-design companies that serve big car makers in Detroit and Japan.
"All the old transmission and piston-engine technology is not relevant to electric cars," Mr. Bell said. The Lewis Center for Regional Policy Studies at the University of California at Los Angeles has identified 411 local companies that produce relevant technology, 30 of which have shown interest in making components for the showcase electric vehicle.
Mayor Michael Hastings of Burbank, where the Lockheed Corporation has vacated a number of aircraft plants, is trying to find manufacturing space for the project. Even if no finished electric cars are assembled in Southern California, Mr. Bell said, an industry based on the components could flourish here. Amerigon itself would not produce electric cars but rather the devices to inflate air bags and secure seat belts in them.
Given the large risks and lack of quick profits in electric cars, Mr. Bell and other are creating a consortium to provide support in technology, finance and marketing for the new companies. The consortium, called Calstart, plans to apply for a $4 million grant from the Federal Government under a measure passed last year and sponsored by Representative Howard L. Berman, Democrat of California. The measure, meant to be matched by state money, awards grants for research and development in clean transit systems and electric vehicles. The Southern California Edison Company, the main electric utility in this region, will participate.
"We are not going to build 40 B-2 bombers," Mr. Berman said in an interview. "The corporate leadership has got to find something else to do."
 
'Incubators' Take Shape Around St. Louis
 In the St. Louis area, where 11,000 workers have been laid off by the McDonnell Douglas Corporation and other military contractors since July 1990, seven counties in Missouri and Illinois have banded together with other agencies to create industrial parks that are business "incubators" to stimulate the biotechnology and health-care industries and commercial and industrial aviation. For example, St. Louis County opened such a center, the St. Louis County Enterprise Center, last year at an office park in suburban Creve Coeur, Mo.
George Brill found a temporary low-cost home there for his new company, AeroTech Service Group Inc. Seeing little future in his job as a Defense Department representative at McDonnell Douglas, he started his company at the incubator, whose lease was donated by the aircraft maker, as was the office furniture. AeroTech, which services commercial aircraft, employs four people now and hopes to grow.
In the Fort Worth area, where layoffs by the General Dynamics Corporation, Bell Helicopter Textron Inc. and other military contractors may eventually total 27,000, local leaders have been shifting to higher economic ground. One result was the creation of Alliance Airport, a new industrial airport 22 miles north of Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport. Financed by the city, private interests and the Federal Aviation Administration, the airport is used to maintain and restore commercial aircraft.
On Long Island, where the Grumman Corporation of Bethpage, maker of the F-14 fighter jet, has cut employment by more than 7,000, local leaders have focused on the exporting of high technology products made on the island. They have proposed converting a Navy airfield in the town of Riverhead, where Grumman assembles and tests jet fighters, into an air-cargo jetport. Though it faces heated opposition from some towns and from environmentalists, supporters say the jetport would create 20,000 jobs.
New London, Conn., is bracing for heavy layoffs by the Electric Boat division of General Dynamics, builder of submarines and Trident missiles. Local leaders have formed the Southeastern Connecticut Economic Development Coalition, which commissioned a study urging the formation of a company, to be called Techconn, to develop new technologies matching local job skills. A major focus is the use of hydrogen as an energy source.
 
Learning From Others, Recognizing the Risks
 In all this, it takes more than just natural market forces to shape the new economy, argues Allen J. Scott, a geographer who is director of the Lewis Center at U.C.L.A. "The lessons of Europe and Japan are appropriate," he said. "There are very high risks at the outset, offset by public agencies. Not in the old heavy-handed way of nationalized industry but in bridge support and venture capital funding."
He said that successful industries depend heavily on local networks of suppliers and labor. For a region such as Southern California to gain dominance in electric cars or other products, he went on, it must be the "first mover" in the technology.
"Public agencies need to make it happen," he said. "If not, it will ultimately happen in Japan or Europe."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amerigon Inc. is building the prototype of an electric car that it hopes will form the nucleus of a vast new peacetime industry to replace strategic missiles and stealth bombers as mainstays of the Southern California economy. Lou E. Bell, president of Amerigon, stood near a mockup of an electric car interior.
 
Map of California showing location of Monrovia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: THRM (NASDAQ) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2531 PUBLIC BUILDING & RELATED FURNITURE (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (70%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: GENTHERM INC (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF); ST LOUIS (MO); LONG ISLAND (NY); CONNECTICUT; FORT WORTH (TEX) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (70%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AUTOMOBILES; ELECTRIC VEHICLES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HYDROGEN; AIRPORTS ; FUEL; BIOTECHNOLOGY REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (76%); RECESSION (75%); AIRLINES (74%); AIRPORTS (74%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (74%); CLOSINGS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); MILITARY BASES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); CIVIL AVIATION (68%); AIR FREIGHT (67%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (54%); EXPORT TRADE (52%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



82 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
With Varying Degrees of Openness, More Companies Lure Gay Dollars

BYLINE: By GEORGIA DULLEA

 BODY:
Christopher Huizenga's recipe for a perfect Bloody Mary calls for Absolut vodka, a brand that is widely advertised in gay newspapers.
He buys underwear with the Calvin Klein label because of what he calls the company's "gay sensitive" ads in mainstream magazines. He drives a Jaguar, but after reading about a pioneering ad campaign in Australia, halfway around the world from his New Jersey home, he says his next car may be a top-of-the-line Toyota. 
 The ad -- which was sponsored by two Australian dealerships, not by Toyota itself -- shows two men in their 30's, a pair of Dalmatians, a picnic basket and a Toyota Seca Ultima, under the headline "The Family Car."
"As a gay person," said Mr. Huizenga, a 45-year-old owner of a real estate agency, "I'm aware of which companies are reaching out to us, and I will go out of my way to support them."
In an era of niche marketing, more companies are reaching out for the gay dollar these days, with varying degrees of openness. Some national advertisers are buying space for the first time in gay publications. Others are looking for ways to subtly acknowledge homosexuals in the mainstream media without alienating heterosexuals.
To many marketers, homosexual couples are an important part of the biggest of the big spenders, a category known as dinks (double income, no kids). When ads that speak to gay men and lesbians appear in publications that cater to them, consumers like Mr. Huizenga demonstrate brand loyalty.
A Chicago market-research company, Overlooked Opinions Inc., recently released a demographic survey that found that gay men had an average household income of $51,325 and lesbians $45,927, compared with the national average of $36,520.
 
Profile of Consumers
 Drawing on responses from samples of a randomly selected group of 1,000 men and women, the company has developed a profile of gay consumers -- their buying habits, brand preferences and life styles.
According to the survey, gay men prefer Coke to Pepsi, for example, McDonald's to Wendy's and Reeboks to Nikes. Levi's are the jeans of choice for three in four gay men, especially Levi's 501 style.
The top car among lesbians is Toyota, followed by Honda, while the reverse is true for gay men. Forty-three percent of lesbians are homeowners and 15 percent have four or more pets.
The major findings of the Overlooked Opinions survey -- that homosexuals tend to be more affluent and better educated; about 60 percent have college degrees, compared with 20 percent of the general population -- were similar to those in a readership study of eight gay newspapers done in 1988 by Simmons Market Research Bureau in New York.
The demographics add up to a "dream market," said Michael Gravois, president of Rivendell Marketing of Plainfield, N.J., which sells ads for gay publications. He cited the example of Remy Martin cognac, a longtime advertiser in gay papers, as proof of readers' brand loyalty.
"Remy Martin is the No. 5 cognac nationwide," he said, "but among gays it's No. 1."
Surveys show that gay people are avid readers, which may be why so many book clubs are among the mainstream marketers buying mailing lists from the Strub Media Group's data base of 300,000 names of gay men and lesbians.
 
Selling Gay Cruises
 "Everybody's going after gay business," said Sean Strub, the owner of the direct-mail company in Rockland County, N.Y. "This is happening in such a targeted way that no one else would recognize it."
It is also happening in ways that everyone recognizes. For example, a 60-foot-high billboard for a cruise company, now on view in West Hollywood, Calif., shows two men in bathing suits, with one man's arm around the other. "RSVP Gay Cruises," it reads. "Call Your Travel Agent."
Smaller versions of the ad are on display in Greenwich Village in Manhattan and in San Francisco subway stations.
And then there is the glossy new catalogue that landed in 250,000 mailboxes last fall. Shocking Gray, "the catalogue for the other 25 million people," resembles countless others -- with offerings like post-modern birdbaths, pet perfumes and pony-skin butterfly chairs.
Its 20 pages are filled with the usual photographs of models. But only same-sex couples are shown. "Gays never get that visual affirmation," said Cynthia Cesnalis, a founder of the catalogue company in San Antonio. "We're bombarded with images of straight couples."
Even in ads intended to appeal primarily to heterosexuals, there may be a homosexual subtext. For example, ads for Calvin Klein underwear and jeans include homoerotic photographs by Bruce Weber.
As for lesbian imagery, Robin Imandt, head of an all-female printing company, Tower Press Communications in New York, said: "I've seen those pictures in fashion magazines of women with their arms around each other, and I've always thought they were for men."
This struck her as odd since few men read fashion magazines.
Ms. Imandt could not recall seeing an ad in a mainstream magazine that appealed to her as a lesbian.
"Of course," she said, "maybe I didn't realize it and ran right out and bought whatever it was they were selling."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); 

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SIMMONS MARKET RESEARCH BUREAU INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; HOMOSEXUALITY; MAGAZINES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (86%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); BRANDING (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); MEN (74%); BRAND EQUITY (73%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); 

PERSON: DULLEA, GEORGIA RICHARD 'CALVIN' KLEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



83 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Press Notes;
Warner Chief Moves to Lift Time Morale

BYLINE: By Alex S. Jones

 BODY:
GERALD M. LEVIN, who abruptly replaced N. J. Nicolas Jr. as president of Time Warner Inc. 10 days ago, has moved rapidly to shore up the sagging morale at the company's magazines.
The gloom has been particularly thick at Time, where layoffs and other cost-cutting measures have created a perception among many insiders that, as a priority, journalism had become a distant second to profit. 
 Last week, Mr. Levin met first with all the managing editors of the various magazines, then with senior editors, and then with the news staffs.
Four people who attended the meetings and spoke on condition of anonymity said Mr. Levin had a simple -- and welcome -- message: journalism is important, the magazines are not going to be sold, and it is a new day.
"He spoke with greater passion than I have ever heard any editor speak about the trust, the responsibility and the opportunity that these magazines have," said one person who was present.
Mr. Levin's remarks prompted the Newspaper Guild to ask Time Warner to reinstate 60 employees who were involuntarily laid off in the fall. On Friday, the company declined to do so.
Jason McManus, editor in chief of all Time Warner magazines, accompanied Mr. Levin to the staff meetings. Mr. McManus has been criticized in a recent book and an article in Esquire on the Time-Warner merger for not battling harder for the news operation. For instance, Mr. McManus ruled that Time would not cover the Time-Warner merger when it was announced, a decision that cost him dearly in respect among the news staff. And he has been far less visible in both the news department and the journalism world at large than was his predecessor, Henry A. Grunwald.
Mr. Levin made a point of saying he had told Mr. McManus that he should be a visible symbol of quality journalism in the United States.
There had been speculation that Mr. Levin might dismiss Mr. Mc Manus, but the informal consensus at the magazines seems to be that Mr. McManus is being given a chance to make up for past sins.
Mr. McManus did not respond to a request for comment. A Time Warner spokesman said Mr. Levin was not giving interviews.
 
Early Recovery Sign?
 John J. Curley, chairman of the Gannett Company, is reluctant to indulge in wishful thinking during what has become one of the industry's worst advertising recessions.
Indeed, while he regards himself as conservative when it comes to forecasting newspaper business trends, some in the industry view his customary outlook as grim bordering on pessimistic.
But last week, Mr. Curley said he was optimistic -- or at least cautiously optimistic -- that Gannett's newspaper advertising was beginning to rebound.
Many in the industry consider Gannett's performance to be a snapshot of the entire newspaper business because it is the nation's largest chain in terms of total circulation. Its 81 dailies in 34 states represent circulation of more than six million and range from The News-Herald in Port Clinton, Ohio -- circulation: 6,500 -- to The Detroit News and USA Today.
Last March, total classified advertising linage for Gannett's papers was down 14 percent from March 1990 levels. Since then, the monthly deficit steadily declined to 10 percent, then 5 percent, then 1 percent.
Finally, in December, classified advertising linage improved over the year before by one-hundredth of a percent.
In January, classified advertising was up 2.2 percent. February promises to show further improvement.
Granted, beating last year's abysmal numbers hardly suggests a boom. And Gannett's retail advertising volume in December and January remained below figures of a year earlier.
"But our history has shown that when classified improves, it is four to six months before retail basically follows suit," Mr. Curley said.
"You look for small things," he added, hopefully.
 
Tense Times in Miami
 The Miami Herald has long had a rocky relationship with members of the Cuban exile community who consider the paper insufficiently anti-Castro, but the last six weeks have been particularly ugly.
The principal combatants in the battle of words are Jorge Mas Canosa, a militantly anti-Castro Cuban leader, and David Lawrence Jr., publisher of The Herald and president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors.
Within the industry, Mr. Lawrence has been one of the strongest voices urging sensitivity to minority readers, and he prepared to become publisher in 1989 by studying Spanish. He is considered a champion diplomat who seeks common ground and bends over backward in pursuit of a larger goal.
Mr. Mas Canosa has him breathing fire.
In a column in late January, Mr. Lawrence said of Mr. Mas Canosa, "You are a powerful person, here and in Washington, and you would like to hurt us, destroy us if you could."
The previous week, Mr. Mas Canosa had characterized The Herald and its Spanish-language sister, El Nuevo Herald, as tools of the Castro Government that conducted a "continuous and systematic campaign against Cuban-Americans, their institutions, values, ethics and ideals."
The apparent trigger for Mr. Mas Canosa's sharp attack, made on Spanish-language radio in Miami, was an editorial and a column opposing retaliation against countries that trade with Cuba.
After Mr. Mas Canosa's denunciation, Mr. Lawrence and others at the paper received death threats, and a number of the paper's vending machines were vandalized.
The Cuban American National Foundation, of which Mr. Mas Canosa is chairman, has condemned violence against the newspaper, but the rhetorical onslaught has continued.
Mr. Lawrence said the paper lost 55 subscribers as a result of the fracas. Rumors have blossomed that an advertising boycott may be in the works, but thus far none has emerged.
"I'm willing to listen and to be fair, but I ain't rolling over," said Mr. Lawrence, who has repeatedly argued in print that Mr. Mas Canosa and his supporters were trying to intimidate the paper and that they did not represent most Cuban-Americans.
Fernando Rojas, a foundation spokesman, said the anti-Herald campaign was a broad one. He said Mr. Mas Canosa was abroad and not available for comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (94%); GCI (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC; GANNETT CO; MIAMI HERALD TIME WARNER INC (94%); GANNETT CO INC (85%); THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (55%); THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER INC; GANNETT CO; MIAMI HERALD THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (55%); THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;;CUBA UNITED STATES (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; CUBAN-AMERICANS ; ADVERTISING; NEWSPAPERS WORKPLACE MORALE (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (63%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (62%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S; LEVIN, GERALD M; NICHOLAS, N J JR; CURLEY, JOHN J; LAWRENCE, DAVID JR; MAS CANOSA, JORGE ; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



84 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Tax Lobbyists Scrambling To Catch Up on Capitol Holl

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1

 BODY:
In the dark of Monday night, long after gaggles of schoolchildren have clambered back onto tour buses and the last Congressional aide has disappeared into the subway, a scraggly line will form outside the Dirksen Senate office building for a pre-dawn vigil.
Clad in sneakers, racing tights and zippered jackets, bicycle messengers will bide their time for hours, holding places in line for tax lobbyists in pinstripes and lawyers in tasseled leather shoes. The goal of this ritual, which will cost the lawyer-lobbyists $20 an hour for each messenger, will be a coveted seat in the Senate Finance Committee's cramped hearing room on Tuesday, when the panel begins drafting tax legislation. 
 Washington's tax-lobbying season, while slow to start this year, is beginning to build. Executives are flying in to plot industry strategies, members of Congress gather in marble-floored conference rooms and tax lawyers clot the flow of people through Congressional offices.
"The telephone is ringing every 20 seconds," said one aide to a Senator on the Finance Committee. "I can't sit here and take a bite from a sandwich."
The lobbying now under way in the Senate stands in sharp contrast to the action last week in the House, which moved so fast in approving a Democratic tax plan that lobbyists had little time to lay their strategy. Representatives were amazed.
"Nobody's lobbying for this bill except the realtors," Representative Timothy J. Penny, Democrat of Minnesota, said shortly before the vote on Thursday. "I guess that's unusual. Usually a tax bill has an army of lobbyists on both sides."
Lobbyists from many industries
complain that President Bush's call on Jan. 28 for tax legislation by March 20 has given them little time to organize. The American Textile Manufacturers Institute, for example, is still holding meetings with its member companies to figure out what measures to support.
Other interest groups are also scrambling. "What is happening to the corporate lobbyists is a lot of them don't know what is going on, and there's not much time, so what do we do?" said Mark A. Bloomfield, the president of the American Council for Capital Formation, a business lobbying group that seeks tax credits for corporations that invest heavily.
 
No Time for Food Stunts
 One result of the compressed tax legislation season is that lobbyists have organized few promotional stunts, like sending free food to Congressional offices. "There haven't been any pizzas yet," one Senate aide said.
So far, the real estate industry lobbyists are looking like this year's winners, while the automobile industry has little to show for its less aggressive efforts.
Houses and cars have long been centerpieces of economic-recovery programs, and the industries that make and market them have sought comparable tax breaks this year. But the bill passed by the House on Thursday included $7.4 billion in tax reductions through 1997 that are specifically aimed at helping the real estate industry, including a measure to let people withdraw money from their Individual Retirement Accounts to help pay for houses.
The auto industry, by contrast, won only a $100 million tax break -- a measure that would allow annual inflation adjustments on the price threshold for cars before luxury taxes are assessed. The current threshold is $30,000.
 
The Home Builders' Strategy
 Gerald M. Howard, the legislative counsel of the National Association of Home Builders, said his trade group began preparing studies in the summer that would demonstrate its case, then started a full-fledged lobbying effort in September.
Mr. Howard said the association would have several lobbyists at Tuesday's Senate hearing, all but one of them in the hallway, rather than in the hearing room.
"It's much more effective if you're in the hall, because you can catch people going in or out," he said.
The auto makers had sought a pair of tax breaks for corporate buyers of cars, which would have totaled about $7 billion through 1997. One of the moves, worth about $1 billion, would have raised to $16,000, from $12,600, the portion of a car's price that a company may deduct as a business expense over five years. The other move, worth up to $6 billion, would have speeded up this depreciation schedule, allowing companies to write off the $16,000 over three years.
President Bush's January trip to Tokyo to seek trade concessions put a spotlight on the industry's troubles. And General Motors' announcements last week of a $4.45 billion annual loss and plans to close a dozen plants presented the image of an industry facing financial disaster.
But several Congressmen said the auto industry's meager gains in the House showed that its lobbying was, at best, inadequate. The lackluster effort also irritated two of the industry's strongest Democratic supporters on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee: Sander M. Levin of Michigan, who led the push for auto tax breaks, and Don J. Pease of Ohio, whose district has three large car factories.
"In terms of their lobbying, I didn't hear from a single auto industry person that I know of," said Mr. Pease, who ended up opposing the proposed incentives for corporate car buyers.
Mr. Pease added that some of his colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee also would have been prepared to take a different stance if the auto industry had been more visible.
Representative Sam M. Gibbons, Democrat of Florida, said he, too, had not heard from the auto industry. Mr. Levin "did the best he could," Mr. Gibbons said, but "he didn't get any support from the industry."
The ranking Republican on the Ways and Means Committee, Bill Archer of Texas, and another Democrat on the committee, Charles B. Rangel of New York, also said they had not heard from the auto industry.
 
'We're Trying to Do Better'
 Mr. Levin said that the House leadership had agreed to give "serious consideration" in the future to the less ambitious of the two measures, the proposal to raise the deduction ceiling to $16,000.
Lobbyists from General Motors, which led the industry's advocacy of the tax-law changes, did not return repeated calls for comment.
Lobbyists from the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation said they made an earnest, though not all-out, effort to win tax relief.
"We've talked to a lot of staff, a lot of members of Congress," said Robert G. Liberatore, Chrysler's executive director of public policy and legislative affairs. "In the Ways and Means, Sandy Levin sort of took the lead in talking to the Democratic caucus, but we also talked."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HOME BUILDERS (59%); SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; FEDERAL TAXES (US); AUTOMOBILES; REAL ESTATE LOBBYING (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); LAWYERS (76%); TAX CONSULTING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); CHILDREN (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); TEXTILE MFG (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



85 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1822 words

HEADLINE: MARKET PLACE;
Investors Hurt When Trades Shift

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Unbeknownst to most investors, many brokers complete trades of stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange at other exchanges or in the over-the-counter market at terms slightly less favorable to investors.
In return for shifting the trades, the brokers receive payments -- in effect, bounties -- for diverting the business. 
 And while the amounts affecting investors are small, a penny here and a penny there can mount up, two new studies have found. A University of Michigan study concluded that in 1989, the last year for which data were available, the diversion of trades from the Big Board cost investors an additional $47 million to $55 million in trading costs.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has held hearings on the practice of allowing brokers to send orders to markets other than the New York Stock Exchange in return for cash payments from rival exchanges or from over-the-counter dealers of the National Association of Securities Dealers. But the commission has taken no action.
 
Reopening a Question
 Because the two studies document for the first time the cost to investors of such practices, they are likely to reopen the question of whether the S.E.C. should act.
About one in every three trades of shares listed on the Big Board now takes place elsewhere, and the amount has been growing steadily in recent years. The studies concluded that when trades are made elsewhere, they are often completed at less-favorable terms than investors would have received on the New York Stock Exchange: sellers get lower prices than if they had sold shares on the Big Board, and buyers pay more.
On average, concluded Charles M. C. Lee, an assistant professor of accounting at the University of Michigan who conducted one of the studies, "investors paid 1.3 cents to 1.5 cents per share more" in 1989 if they bought shares off the Big Board. That amount, he noted, is "comparable to the typical cash rebates" given to brokers for directing orders away from the New York Stock Exchange.
The legitimacy of cash rebates has been an issue before the S.E.C. for several years. A study last year by a committee appointed by the N.A.S.D. and led by David S. Ruder, a former S.E.C. chairman, concluded that no action should be taken in part because cash rebates are only one of a large number of ways that brokers are compensated for delivering orders.
Current law requires brokers to get the "best execution" of trades for their customers. But regulators have concluded that the acceptance of cash payments by brokers is not evidence that they failed to do so.
The new studies were conducted at the University of Michigan, which paid for its study from its own budget, and at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. The Wharton study was financed by the New York Stock Exchange, which stands to benefit from its results.
As it happened, the Big Board came out looking slightly worse in the study it financed, which was conducted by Marshall E. Blume, the director of the Rodney L. White Center for Financial Research at Wharton, and Michael A. Goldstein, a graduate student there.
S.E.C. officials were at a commission retreat away from their office late last week and over the weekend, and did not return calls seeking comment.
Gene Finn, the chief economist of the N.A.S.D., said he viewed the results of the studies as relatively unimportant, noting that on a 1,000-share trade, the apparent average savings using the Big Board would be only $15. He pointed out that that amount could be offset by commission savings.
In theory, brokers who shift trades away from the Big Board could reduce their commissions by the amount of the rebate they receive, with investors suffering no net losses from the practice. But no data are available that indicate brokers trading off the Big Board generally charge lower commissions, and industry officials say rebates are paid to both full-commission firms and to discounters.
The studies covered stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange, which includes many of the most widely held and best-known stocks in the country. Until the 1960's, the Big Board had an effective monopoly on such trades, but gradual attempts to break its dominance culminated in the mid-1970's with rules that made it possible to trade such stocks elsewhere. Electronic links now enable all markets to see the prices being offered on other markets.
The two studies cover only those stocks whose primary listing is on the New York Stock Exchange. Many stocks have their primary listing on Nasdaq, the principal over-the-counter market, or other exchanges like the American Stock Exchange or regional exchanges. Their trading patterns were not studied.
Stocks are normally quoted with "bid" and "asked" prices, the bid being the price an investor could get if he decided to sell a stock, and the asked price being the price needed to buy a stock.
In the United States, stocks are usually quoted in increments of 12.5 cents, or one-eighth of a dollar, and a typical quote might be $20 bid and $20.25 asked. That "spread" would be quoted by the Big Board and matched by other market makers, either dealers trading through Nasdaq or by specialists on regional exchanges from Los Angeles to Boston.
Currently, a broker legally obtains the "best execution" if an order is routed to any broker with those quotes. As a result, many brokers chose to routinely send orders to dealers who will rebate one or two cents a share to the broker. Effectively, that is a price reduction, but the benefit is not given to the customer.
"People off the exchange are very happy to match the N.Y.S.E. quoted prices," said Professor Blume of Wharton. "But the quoted prices on the N.Y.S.E. are frequently bettered when you go there." In other words, a buyer of a stock with an asked price of $20.25 a share can often buy at a lower price, perhaps $20 or $20.125 a share, on the N.Y.S.E.
In his study of 1989 data, Professor Lee concluded that in cases where bid and asked prices were 25 cents apart, about 42 percent of trades on the New York Stock Exchange got prices better than the asked price if the customer was buying, or better than the bid price if the customer was selling. By contrast, only 32 percent of trades in the same stocks on Nasdaq, where rebates are most prevalent, resulted in better prices for customers.
The Nasdaq dealers make their profit from buying stocks at the lower bid price and selling them at the higher asked price. By paying rebates, they are reducing their profit on any one trade, but getting more business. It appears that the trade-off is that some customers end up losing 12.5 cents a share, the minimum price increment, on trades, while others lose nothing. The average, Professor Lee concluded, is more than one cent a share.
Just which brokers take rebates is a carefully kept secret on Wall Street. Madoff Investment Securities, a Nasdaq dealer that gives rebates for trades on 400 Big Board-listed issues, will not identify any of its customers. And the brokers themselves generally refuse to discuss the matter.
The S.E.C. requires brokers to disclose to customers that they may take rebates -- usually in the small print on the back of the documents confirming that orders were executed -- but does not require them to disclose if they actually took rebates on particular trades.
Hugo Quackenbush, a senior vice president of Charles Schwab & Company, the nation's largest discount broker, says his firm does business with Madoff and takes rebates on about 10 percent of its Big Board-listed orders.
"Best execution is the controlling rule," he said, adding that if a customer insisted on executing an order on a specific market, that request would be honored.
Peter Madoff, a senior managing director of Madoff, said his firm tried to improve any price on shares with a spread of at least 25 cents but not those with a spread of only 12.5 cents.
"All of our clients are N.Y.S.E. members," Mr. Madoff said. "If they felt they were not getting the best execution possible, they would not trade with us."
Madoff, like other firms that pay rebates, generally accepts only orders up to a certain size. Larger orders are still generally sent to the Big Board. As a result, while only 67 percent of the trades of Big Board-listed stocks were handled by the New York Stock Exchange last year, it handled 82 percent of the volume.
A New York Stock Exchange official said the exchange knew which brokers sent large portions of trades to other markets but felt that the information was confidential.
There are many ways besides cash rebates that brokers can be compensated for directing order flow. Some firms have reciprocal arrangements, in which trades in some shares are directed between them, and others own specialist firms that make markets in Big Board stocks on regional exchanges.
A Merrill Lynch & Company official, who asked not to be quoted by name, said his firm directed some orders in certain stocks to its own specialists. But he insisted that "the policy is to route the order to the exchange that gives the best execution."
Such responses are standard, which is why the two studies, which examined many thousands of trades and compared them to similar trades executed at about the same time, may be important.
"If everything else is the same, you should tell your broker to execute on the Big Board," Professor Blume said. "But they won't do it, usually."
He noted that commissions vary, and that if one firm offered significantly lower commissions, a customer might be better off no matter where a trade was executed. He said there were no data available on commission levels and off-exchange trading.
Professor Lee said his study should not be interpreted to conclude that the specialists who make markets on the Big Board are altruistic and trying to give customers a break. "There is greater volume there, so there is more likelihood that someone is willing to trade inside the quote," he said.
The Wharton team studied trades in 1989 and concluded that the average trade got a price improvement of 0.79 cent a share if it was executed on the Big Board, with trades of higher priced stocks likely to have seen bigger benefits.
That is a smaller figure than was found in the Michigan study, but Professor Blume said the difference was unimportant and may have reflected the fact that where the data were ambiguous, he made some assumptions that improved the relative performance of the regional exchanges and Nasdaq dealers.
Professor Blume said he was now studying 1990 trades, for which slightly better data are avaliable, and that it appeared the pattern was consistent.
Professor Lee said that he occassionally bought and sold stocks through Schwab. "Until I did this study, I didn't know which exchanges things were channeled to," he said. "Now I think I will ask to trade on the New York."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Off the Big Board, Investors May Lose" shows the percentage of trades of New York Stock Exchanger-listed stocks each year on other exchanges and in the Nasdaq over-the-counter market from '76-Jan. '92. (Sources: New York Stock Exchange; Charles M.C. Lee, University of Michigan) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; WHARTON SCHOOL OF FINANCE AND COMMERCE (UNIVERSITY OF PENNA); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; WHARTON SCHOOL OF FINANCE AND COMMERCE (UNIVERSITY OF PENNA); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); SALES REBATES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



86 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Stuart Nash Scott, Is Dead at 85; Studied New York City's Finances

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
Stuart Nash Scott, who headed a commission that warned New York City prior to its 1975 fiscal crisis that its finances were out of control, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan.
He was 85 years old and died of a stroke, his family said. 
 Mr. Scott, a prominent corporate lawyer, was a former president of the New York State Bar Association and also served briefly as the United States Ambassador to Portugal. He was removed by Secretary of State Henry Kissinger after a policy dispute.
Mr. Scott was chairman of the Temporary State Commission to Make a Study of the Governmental Operation of the City of New York, which became known as the Scott Commission. Its final report in 1973 concluded that the city could not afford all its services, spent more than it took in, used gimmicks to cover its deficit and should sharply reduce programs and costs.
 
Warnings Largely Unheeded
 The warnings went largely unheeded. Shut out of the credit market two years later, the city was forced to freeze wages, fire tens of thousands of workers and slash services.
The commission, created in 1971 by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, was attacked by Mayor John V. Lindsay's aides as a pawn in the feud between the Mayor and Governor. Mr. Scott, not registered in any party, disavowed any ulterior motives.
"The city must not only economize but it must abandon its role in areas into which municipal activity has extended," the panel said. Projecting that the gap between rising costs and limited revenues was growing to billions of dollars, the panel said "a comprehensive and all-embracing municipal government is no longer viable."
The panel recommended productivity goals and long-range budgeting, reforms enacted years later.
In his 10-month stint as an ambassador in 1974, Mr. Scott sought American aid to help stabilize Portugal amid Communist inroads. But his superiors contended that any aid to Portugal might be seen as helping or condoning Communism.
Mr. Kissinger replaced Mr. Scott with Frank C. Carlucci but said the rejected request for aid was not the reason for Mr. Scott's dismissal. Soon after, the State Department reversed itself and approved money, loans and technical help for Portugal.
 
Graduated From Yale
 Mr. Scott was born in Madison, Wis. He graduated in 1927 from Yale University and in 1930 from Harvard Law School, where he was an editor of the law review. After teaching at the school in 1930-31, he joined the Manhattan law firm now named Dewey Ballantine Bushby Palmer & Wood. He became a partner in 1941, retired about five years ago and remained a counsel to the firm.
International trade was a special interest. He was the trade counsel to the French Purchasing Commission in 1939-40 that helped American companies win contracts from France. Much later he helped Dewey Ballantine set up an office in Brussels for the European market.
In World War II, he earned a distinguished civilian service medal as a counsel to the Navy's Aeronautics Bureau and was general counsel to the Surplus War Property Administration.
He was a chairman of the New York City Bar Association's executive committee and the Harvard Law School Fund. He served on the boards of the Wooster School, the Columbia School of Social Work, the Hudson Fund, the Airborne Instruments Laboratory, the Wallace Aviation Corporation and the Cuban Atlantic Sugar Company.
His wife, the former Katherine Miller, died last year. He is survived by his daughter, Susan Scott Porter of Framingham, Mass., and two grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stuart Nash Scott (Peter Schaaf, 1976)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); PORTUGAL (94%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (58%); NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (57%); NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (57%); NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PORTUGAL (94%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); DEATHS (90%); MAYORS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); DISMISSALS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); PRODUCTIVITY (67%); WORLD WAR II (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); STROKES (57%); 

PERSON: SCOTT, STUART NASH; LAMBERT, BRUCE HENRY ALFRED KISSINGER (57%); NELSON ALDRICH 'NELSON A' ROCKEFELLER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



87 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: BOXING;
Differing Styles Bring Winning Results

BYLINE: By PHIL BERGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: COLORADO SPRINGS, March 1

 BODY:
Chris Byrd gave a boxing clinic. Robert Allen ignored the subtleties for sledgehammer power.
Their approaches, and styles, differed. But Byrd, in the 165-pound class, and Allen, in the 156-pound class, were the hits in the finals of the United States boxing championships Saturday night at the Broadmoor World Arena. 
 Byrd, a 21-year-old left-hander from Flint, Mich., was masterful in disassembling Eric Wright. Cool and measured, he hit Wright with punches from every angle and then, by leaning back or twisting his upper body, eluded what blows Wright tried. He worked with an economy of motion and an air of serene and, sometimes, bemused pleasure in his skills.
 
Only Knockout of the Finals
 Allen, a Marine stationed at Camp Pendleton in California, was another story. While awaiting the opening bell, he had in his eyes the incandescent anger of the early Roberto Duran. And once he stepped forward to do battle with Cassius Matthews, it was with Tysonlike purposefulness.
Seconds into the match, he hit Matthews with two thudding rights and a left hook that caused the referee, Carmen Williamson, to give Matthews a standing 8 count. Moments later, Allen uncorked a left hook and right to the head and Matthews wilted against the ropes. Williamson stopped the bout at 1 minute 10 seconds of the first round -- the only knockout in the finals of 12 different weight classes.
But winners and losers Saturday all gained berths in the Olympic trials, which are scheduled for June 10-14 in Worcester, Mass. Those gold medalists will advance to the Olympic boxoffs June 26-28 in Phoenix, where they will face selected challengers. For a challenger to usurp a trials winner and make the Olympic team, he must beat him twice.
 
Chasing a 'Lifetime Dream'
 Byrd's performance Saturday was no surprise. He won gold medals in the United States championships of 1989 and 1991.
"I sensed he couldn't hurt me, so I hot-dogged it a little bit," Byrd said of Wright. "It feels good to be U.S. champion. I should be a favorite going into the trials. The Olympics is my lifetime dream."
By contrast, Allen came into the championships with a cloud over him. His past dismissal from the Marines boxing squad was said to have been for a lack of effort. Allen said he had had medical problems at Camp Lejeune, N.C., at the time his reputation was being downgraded. When he moved to Camp Pendleton, he said, his strength returned.
 
Reputation Called Undeserved
 Allen's adviser, Jim Troy, said the 22-year-old Marine had benefited from sparring in a San Diego gym with professionals like James Kinchen and Gilbert Baptiste. "He's learned to be much more patient in the ring," said Troy.
Troy insisted that Allen's reputation as a slacker was undeserved. "He's got one of the best work ethics I've seen," Troy said.
Other fighters who made a strong impression Saturday were Arturo Hoffman, a 17-year-old high school student who showed punching power in his decision over Russell Roberts in the 112-pound class; Shane Mosley, a clever boxer who beat Steve Johnston in the 139-pound class, and Shannon Briggs, a heavyweight from Brooklyn whose short, accurate punches held off 30-year-old Javier Alvarez in a decision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (72%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (72%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BOXING BOXING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); ATHLETES (69%); SPORTS AWARDS (69%); 

PERSON: BERGER, PHIL ROBERTO DURAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



88 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Suspend, or Undermine, the Rules?

 BODY:
In the month since President Bush declared a moratorium on Government regulations, the volume of new rules and proposals has shrunk to 25 per week, versus a weekly average of 149 last year, with no visible harm to the public. But the operative word is "visible." Mr. Bush's penchant for invisible manipulation invites mistrust.
On Jan. 28, Mr. Bush ordered a 90-day review of regulations with an eye to modifying or eliminating whatever the law allows. Meanwhile, work is suspended on all new regulations except those affecting health and safety, those with statutory deadlines and any that stimulate growth. 
 Aside from its mystery, there are three political reasons for concern about the moratorium. It smacks of hyperbole, promising more than it can deliver. Its campaign timing gives off a distinct partisan odor. And its content denotes surrender to business pressure.
The impact of such a moratorium is likely to be small; most regulation is governed by laws Mr. Bush can't rewrite. But he appears driven by election-year politics more than a born-again fervor for deregulation. He has by and large appointed earnest regulators. He pushed for two new regulatory laws -- Clean Air and Americans With Disabilities -- that will cost industry billions.
But businessmen and conservatives have howled louder than consumers and environmentalists have cheered. The moratorium now strengthens the hand of regulators who would make life easier for industry. Never mind that it weakens protection of the public.
In theory, regulations are written in the open, where every comment and intervention is on the record. But, starting with President Carter, the White House has increasingly involved itself, out of public view, to make sure that regulations conform with Administration policy.
Mr. Bush handed this review power to his Council on Competitiveness, led by Vice President Quayle. The Administration holds that the Vice President's status gives the council the same executive immunity from public scrutiny that the President enjoys.
Senator John Glenn's bill to crack that immunity has now been reported out by his Governmental Affairs Committee. It would require that the Quayle council make public all its dealings with regulators and interested outsiders.
The Administration calls this unconstitutional. The President does have a right to confidentiality. Frank exchanges don't happen in a fishbowl. But the Glenn bill makes a stronger point. The public, and anyone who stands to gain or lose from proposed regulations, has a right to know what's up. Mr. Bush's shadowy moratorium only magnifies the mystery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); IMMUNITY (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); GLENN, JOHN (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



89 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Gay, Lesbian Press Is Starting to Emerge Into the Mainstream

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE CARMODY

 BODY:
Led by a new generation of lesbians and gay men who view their homosexuality as a matter of pride rather than privacy, the gay press is emerging from the shadows to claim a place in the mainstream.
After years of being distributed without charge in bars and being dependent on sexually oriented advertisements for revenues, gay publications are changing their images and aspirations. 
 At least two new national lesbian and gay magazines are being started by experienced publishers and editors. Puhleeze!, a humor magazine, will make its debut in May. And Out, which calls itself "a gay and lesbian Mirabella or Esquire with a little bit of gay and lesbian Cosmo thrown in," will appear in June.
Aimed at gay audiences, they expect to attract heterosexual readers as well -- but on their own terms.
"Out will be a cool magazine, but if you don't get it, you're not invited," said Sarah Pettit, the magazine's executive editor.
Moreover, recent arrivals, like Genre and NYQ magazines, seem to be growing.
The surge in gay publications comes as advertisers are showing increasing interest in the gay market. In a time of recession, many see it as a lucrative niche.
And like so much in gay life, the growth of the gay press has been propelled by the AIDS crisis. Often unable to find enough information in mainstream publications, many homosexuals turned their own publications into journals about AIDS.
But the AIDS crisis caused some advertisers to stand back from the gay market.
"Back in the early 80's, we made our initial breakthrough with national advertising," said John Knoebel, president and chief executive of The Advocate, the national gay news magazine. "Then everyone started talking about AIDS devastating the gay community and advertisers began taking a wait-and-see attitude."
In addition, some advertisers were uneasy about the sexually oriented ads in many gay publications or were afraid they would lose customers who disliked homosexuals.
Now, advertisers are taking another look.
"For a while, anything connected with the gay market had a stigma," said Doug Alligood, vice president of special markets for the ad agency BBDO New York. "But there's a change. They got away from offending mainstream sensibilities. That had to happen before the advertisers could take the medium seriously.
"And Madison Avenue has gotten a lot more pragmatic about the marketplace," he said. "Basically, people are saying, 'If this is a market in which people stand to make sales, then why not?' "
 
More Advertising
 As a result, gay publications are picking up more advertising. Michael Gravois, president of Rivendell Marketing in Plainfield, N.J., which represents 175 lesbian and gay publications, including some adult magazines as well as local newspapers, said his firm had placed more than $1 million of advertising in the gay press in 1990; last year, it placed $2 million.
Mr. Knoebel of The Advocate said the 25-year-old biweekly magazine carried 147 pages of national advertising last year, compared with 50 pages in 1989. Paid circulation has risen 15 percent, to 75,000.
And Genre, a national life-style magazine for gay men, is about to celebrate its first anniversary, having shown that a gay publication can make it without carrying ads for sexually explicit telephone services. It has picked up such national advertisers as Absolut vodka and the Columbia House record club.
Indeed, the gay market may be too big to ignore. The size of the gay population is unknown, since it is not measured by the census. Still, many people cite a 1948 study by the Kinsey Institute that said about 10 percent of the total population was either exclusively homosexual or frequently engaged in gay sex. If that estimate is accurate today, the American gay population may total 25 million.
There are about 160 gay weeklies, biweeklies, monthlies and quarterlies around the country devoted to local events and news. They run the gamut from giveaways, which get their revenues from ads, to those sold at newsstands and by subscriptions. The Philadelphia Gay News, a weekly with a circulation of 15,000, has its own news boxes.
Some local papers like The Windy City Times of Chicago have been cited for their aggressive coverage of city politics and community news. Others are simply vehicles for local gay businesses and bars.
But now, some new gay publications are seeking a national audience.
At Genre, this gamble may be paying off. Don Tuthill, the magazine's co-publisher, said he expected Genre to break even with its next issue. "We've made it," he said of the magazine, which claims a paid circulation of 100,000 copies and is about to go from quarterly to bimonthly.
 
More Ambitious Plans
 Out magazine has even more ambitious plans. As a quarterly, it is seeking an initial paid circulation of around 150,000, with a goal of 250,000 in two years. It ultimately plans to become a monthly.
Michael Goff, editor in chief of Out, said his magazine would include investigative pieces and profiles, as well as articles on fashion, pop culture, theater, film and art.
"It will be good-quality journalism that matter-of-factly acknowledges gay and lesbian people, instead of 'In your face!' " he said. "Everybody is looking for role models, but this population even more so than others. Where are these images intelligently presented in a magazine that I could show my mother?"
 
Seeking an Alternative
 "I take a look at most gay magazines, and I find them either drab or boring," said Roger Black, Out's design director, who has overseen the redesign of many big magazines, including McCall's, Esquire and House Beautiful. "What we feel is needed is an alternative that is entertaining."
The magazine has raised $250,000 for its start-up and is hoping to raise three times that amount before June, when 400,000 subscription forms will be handed out around the country during Gay Pride Week.
The other national gay magazine on the drawing board, Puhleeze!, is a humor bimonthly that is aiming for a circulation of 100,000. It will be distributed without charge, with revenues coming from advertising.
"Its sensibility might be gay, but it will be camp humor and entertainment that is going to appeal to the non-gay population, too," said Ric Alonso, the publisher and owner, whose background is in desktop publishing, producing newsletters and small local newspapers.
A shadow that still falls over the gay press these days is that of Outweek, the strident two-year-old New York weekly that closed last summer because of infighting among its editors and poor management, according to people who worked there. Outweek was best known -- and most hated by some people -- for its practice of outing, or exposing the homosexuality of public figures.
A group of editors and others who had been involved with Outweek banded together after the magazine's demise. In October, they brought out another New York weekly, NYQ, with Q standing for queer, their preferred word for homosexual.
The very word is somewhat of a red flag among gay men and lesbians, with younger and more militant people embracing it and others wincing when they hear it.
"The word queer started up as a way to say it's not derogatory to be a homosexual," said Troy Masters, co-publisher of NYQ. "It is also a way of defining yourself as a political person."
 
Reducing the Losses
 NYQ, which is financed by its president and chief executive, William F. Chafin, who has so far invested almost $300,000, covers gay and lesbian civil rights issues and other news.
Mr. Masters said that the magazine was selling about 10,000 copies a week and that weekly losses were now about $3,000, down from $6,000 to $12,000 in its first few weeks. NYQ expects to reach the break-even point in six months. The goal is a circulation of 100,000 in two years.
Later this year, New York may get another gay publication, a newspaper. The New York Independent is being started by Mark Schoofs, former editor of The Windy City Times, and Achy Obejas, a former reporter at The Chicago Sun-Times. Mr. Schoofs said he was talking to potential investors.
"We really want to be the newspaper where the ring-in-nose crowd talks with the suit-and-tie crowd," Mr. Schoofs said.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 1992, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Media Business pages on Monday about gay publications' entry into the mainstream referred incompletely to a new magazine, NYQ. While some of its managers once worked on Outweek magazine, which closed last summer, NYQ has no connection with Outweek and says it opposes many of Outweek's positions, including the practice of "outing," or exposing the homosexuality of public figures.
A picture caption with the article misidentified several NYQ officials. Those shown were, from the left, Maer Roshan, Avril McDonald, William F. Chafin and Colleen Mangan; seated in front was Troy Masters.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The leadership of the weekly NYQ. From left: William F. Chafin; Maer Roshan; Troy Masters, seated; Avril McDonald, and Colleen Mangan. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times) (pg. D9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: BBDO NEW YORK (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (76%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; MAGAZINES; ADVERTISING; HOMOSEXUALITY GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); AIDS & HIV (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); PUBLISHING (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RECESSION (66%); 

PERSON: CARMODY, DEIRDRE MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1992



90 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Russian Computer Scientists Hired by American Company

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., Feb. 27

 BODY:
A Silicon Valley company has hired the Russian scientist who created the supercomputers used by the Soviet space program and by the Soviet military to design nuclear weapons.
The contract is one of the first examples of an American business tapping the wealth of scientific talent that until recently was dedicated to the Soviet Union's vast military program. 
 The Russian scientist, Boris A. Babayan, will set up a laboratory in Moscow for Sun Microsystems Inc. that will employ his team of about 50 software and hardware designers.
 
Bargain-Basement Wages
 The team's full-time efforts will come at an astoundingly low price for Sun: Its members will be paid a little more than their current salaries of a few hundred dollars a year in American dollars.
Top American computer designers sell their services for $100,000 a year or more, but both Sun officials and Mr. Babayan (pronounced bob-ee-YON) said the Russians could not be paid that handsomely without engendering bitter feelings among their colleagues or exacerbating inflation in the Russian economy, where price controls were lifted on Jan. 2.
Mr. Babayan said that in January, a month's wages for one of his most highly paid scientists was 1,500 rubles. That is only about $15, but still a princely sum in a country where the average wage is 800 to 1,000 rubles a month and a Big Mac costs 59 rubles.
Other high-technology companies are searching for similar scientific windfalls. But while the United States Government supports efforts to keep Russian scientists away from hostile countries, it has been wary of projects like Sun's for fear that vital American technology will be shared with scientists in a nation that someday could again become an enemy.
Mr. Babayan, who is 59 years old, said that Russian computer scientists have been largely isolated from the rest of the world during the last three decades and, as a result, have pursued concepts new to the West.
"There are two distinct computing cultures; we have new ideas for thinking about high-speed computing hardware," Mr. Babayan said in an interview at Sun's research laboratory here on Thursday.
Mr. Babayan's role in what was the Soviet Union closely parallels that of Seymour R. Cray, the legendary American computer designer who for almost three decades has designed the world's fastest computers.
Mr. Cray's supercomputers, built by the Control Data Corporation and later by Cray Research Inc., were used first to model nuclear explosions and later for weather forecasting, aeronautical design and other research.
Mr. Babayan is now completing his latest supercomputer, called the Elbrus III. While it is based on relatively primitive hardware technology made in Russian semiconductor factories, Sun and other American computer scientists said they believed the machine would match the fastest supercomputers from companies like Cray Research.
 
A Lack of Customers
 Because of the end of the cold war and declining military spending, however, neither Mr. Babayan nor Mr. Cray at his newly founded company, the Cray Computer Corporation, have found customers for their newest models.
The speed of the Elbrus comes from its innovative design and its advanced software, at which Russian scientists excel, said David R. Ditzel, Sun Microsystems' director of advanced systems.
"Mr. Babayan has a very clever computer architecture and a spectacularly smart research team," he said.
Sun's computer researchers said they hoped to tap the Russians' particular expertise in efficiently linking hardware and software.
Executives of the Microsoft Corporation, the nation's largest software company, and of Apple Computer Inc. said they too were in talks with Russian computer experts.
"There's not a lot of management experience there, but there are a lot of bright programmers," said Nathan Myhrvold, Microsoft's vice president of advanced technology and business development. "I'm looking to hire some serious people."
David C. Nagel, director of Apple's advanced technology group, said his company was exploring hiring teams of Russian researchers to work in that country for Apple.
 
More Efficient Programs
 Despite -- some experts say because of -- Russia's relatively outmoded computer hardware, Russian software designers are highly regarded because they are forced to produce more efficient programs.
Executives of Sun, which is based here, and other computer experts said they were impressed by the design skills of the Institute of Precision Mechanics and Computer Technology of the Russian Academy of Sciences, where Mr. Babayan works.
"Babayan is a very capable designer," said Peter Wolcott, an expert on the Soviet computer industry at the University of Arizona in Tucson and one of the few Americans who have visited the Moscow institute.
Igor Shelaputin, a numerical analyst at the Keldysh Institute of Applied Mathematics in Moscow who is traveling in the United States, said of Mr. Babayan, "His reputation stands very high in the Soviet Union."
But the Sun executives also said they were concerned that dismal economic conditions in the former Soviet Union would soon scatter technical groups that have remarkable skills.
Sun officials who visited Moscow said they were struck by the dire conditions of the new country and were acting to help the research institute survive a difficult winter.
"If everyone is starving and the children have no milk, then we should figure out how to hire every scientist in the country," said John Gage, a Sun executive.
Mr. Babayan said: "Now is just the moment to begin hiring. In two years, our team would have been destroyed."
Mr. Babayan has visited the United States twice; so financially pressed is his institute that to get him here the second time, a Sun employee had to fly to Russia and pay for his plane ticket in cash.
The institute has several thousand employees and only a small number will work directly for Sun, but both Sun officials and Mr. Babayan left open the possibility of expanded cooperation in the future.
"I am hoping for a more relaxed environment in the future," Mr. Babayan said. "This is a great opportunity."
Computer scientists at Sun have been negotiating with Mr. Babayan and with the United States and Russian Governments for almost a year. The first contact between the two groups was made when Sun's vice president of research, William V. Joy, visited the Soviet Union in November 1990.
The Sun scientists said that since the failure of the August coup, there was no opposition to the plan from the Soviet Government but that they had experienced resistance from American officials, who oppose the export of advanced computer systems and software to the former Soviet Union.
 
One-Way Information Flow
 The Sun scientists also said that because of United States export restrictions, the information flow between the research groups has so far been almost entirely in one direction: from the Russians to the Sun engineers. Sun has already shipped some of its powerful work stations to the Soviet Union to be used in the new laboratory and is applying for export licenses to send more machines.
Mr. Wolcott of the University of Arizona said that beginning in the late 1960's, Mr. Babayan's institute began designing a supercomputer called the Elbrus, named after Mount Elbrus in the Caucasus range in the Soviet republic of Georgia.
Initial measurements of the newest 16-processor Elbrus indicate that it will be capable of performing up to speeds of 10 billion mathematical calculations a second. Mr. Babayan said that using standard measurements, the machine had performed twice as fast as Cray Research's Y/MP supercomputer, the company's latest machine.
Mr. Shelaputin, the Keldysh Institute scientist, said that in recent meetings with American aerospace scientists, he had been surprised to learn that even the most powerful American computers were not able to compute turbulent air flow over the surface of the space shuttle at even a modest angle of attack. He said that Russian software was capable of this calculation at even the most extreme angle of attack.
Mr. Ditzel said new computer communication links had made it easy for the Moscow research team to stay in contact with their new Sun colleagues in California. The researchers are 12 hours apart, so they can send messages one day and receive answers when they arrive at work the next day.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Boris A. Babayan, a Russian scientist hired by a U.S. company. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (80%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (72%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (72%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (72%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (61%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (61%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (61%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (61%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC CRAY RESEARCH INC (80%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (72%); ARBITRON INC (61%); CERIDIAN CORP (61%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; MOSCOW (USSR) UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); CONTRACTS; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (76%); SEMICONDUCTORS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (70%); INTERVIEWS (65%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (50%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN; BABAYAN, BORIS A BORIS A BABAYAN (95%); SEYMOUR R CRAY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



91 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Poll;
In Poll, Voters Are Unhappy With All the Choices

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 2

 BODY:
Americans enter the busiest stretch of the primary season in a frustrated mood, dissatisfied with President Bush but overwhelmingly convinced that none of the candidates for President really understand their lives, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll.
Mr. Bush's approval rating stands at 40 percent, a new low for him in the Times/CBS News poll, although it was unchanged from his reading last month when the poll's margin of sampling error is taken into account. 
 There are many signs of public anxiety over the economy and the President's response to it. Still, the Democratic alternatives to Mr. Bush remain murky and ill-defined for most Americans, according to the telephone survey of 1,673 adults, conducted Wednesday through Sunday.
 
Democrats Are Unhappy
 Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, with the support of 28 percent of the likely Democratic voters, and former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts, with the backing of 19 percent, are at the front of the pack in the struggle for the nomination. Mr. Tsongas's surge in polls after his victory in the New Hampshire primary has stabilized, but could take another jump if he does well in the round of primaries on Tuesday.
Still, 52 percent of the Democrats say they are not satisfied with the candidates running and wish someone else would enter the race. And that level of dissatisfaction is up from the 45 percent who felt that way a few weeks ago.
The poll also found that Americans overwhelmingly support the kind of tax cut for the middle class that Democrats in Congress propose, but they do not give the Democrats credit for the idea, and most believe Democrats proposed the cut more to win votes than to help the economy. [Business Day, page D1.]
In short, the poll, which has a marging of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points, includes worrisome news for both parties that transcends the voting over the next few weeks.
The level of concern about the economy remains remarkably high: 82 percent say it is either "fairly bad" or "very bad." But most Americans seem to feel their anxieties and the Presidential campaign are disconnected. Sixty-four percent said they did not think any candidates "really understand what everyday life is like for people like yourself." When asked what they wished the candidates understood, most cited their economic problems.
While Mr. Bush's allies are focused on wearing down his primary opponent, Patrick J. Buchanan, the new poll outlines a grim landscape for Mr. Bush in the general election. His approval rating for his economic performance hovers at 19 percent, the lowest since Jimmy Carter's.
Fifty-seven percent of registered voters say they think Mr. Bush has a vision of where he wants to take the country, down from 81 percent who felt that way when he took office.
And those who said they were registered to vote are evenly divided when offered a choice between re-electing President Bush or an unnamed Democrat: 40 percent backed Mr. Bush, 44 percent the Democrat.
 
Edge for Ideal Democrat
 Americans give an unnamed, idealized Democratic President the edge over Mr. Bush in a number of areas. When asked whether Mr. Bush or a Democratic President would be "more likely to care about the needs and problems of people like you," 52 percent said the Democrat would, while 29 percent said Mr. Bush would. When asked who would be most likely to end the recession, 43 percent said a Democratic President, while 30 percent cited Mr. Bush.
But between the idea of a Democratic President and the reality of the candidates falls a considerable shadow. A majority of Americans say they still do not have an opinion about most Democratic candidates. When people were given a head-to-head choice, Mr. Bush beat Mr. Clinton by 50 percent to 40 percent, Mr. Tsongas by 49 percent to 39 percent, and Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska by 52 percent to 35 percent.
Mr. Clinton's public image seems to reflect a month of attacks from his rivals, in addition to accusations that he manipulated his draft status during the Vietnam War and had a 12-year extramarital affair with a singer, both of which he denied. Among likely Democratic voters, 28 percent said they viewed him favorably, while 21 percent viewed him unfavorably. Just after New Hampshire, 33 percent viewed him positively and 16 percent negatively.
Mr. Clinton is viewed far more positively in the South than elsewhere in the country; he was viewed favorably by 35 percent of the Southern Democrats and unfavorably by 17 percent.
 
Negative Views of Tsongas Rise
 Negative opinions of Mr. Tsongas are also rising. His favorable/unfavorable rating among Democrats was 29 to 16 in the latest poll, compared to 33 to 9 just after the New Hampshire primary. Mr. Kerrey, despite his moment in the limelight after winning the primary in South Dakota, is still struggling to introduce himself: 13 percent of the Democrats view him favorably, 12 percent unfavorably and 74 percent said they were undecided or did not know enough to have an opinion.
The rest of the pack fell well behind Mr. Clinton and Mr. Tsongas when Democrats were asked their preferences for the nomination. Former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California was third with 12 percent, followed by Senator Kerrey with 6 percent and Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa with 4 percent.
This survey included an unusually large sample of Southerners, because the primary campaign is focused in this region for the next two weeks. The additional Southern respondents were used to increase the reliability of the results for that region but were weighted to avoid skewing the national results.
 
Differences of Degree
 On a variety of attitudes, the survey found more differences of degree than stark contrasts between the South and the rest of the nation. The region still tends to have more people who identify themsleves as Democrats, with 40 percent as against 29 percent in the rest of the country, and more people who identify themselves as conservatives, with 35 percent doing so while 29 percent do so in the rest of the country.
The region defied its stereotypes in other areas. For example, David Duke, the former Ku Klux Klan leader and Louisiana State Representative who is seeking the Republican nomination for President, is viewed nearly as negatively by Southern Republicans as by non-Southern Republicans.
The survey did find regional differences in the views on other candidates. Mr. Clinton, not suprisingly given his regional roots and heavy campaigning here, has much more support in the South than Mr. Tsongas, with 39 percent of the Southern Democratic voters saying they would like to see him win the nomination, while 14 percent say that about Mr. Tsongas. But these results reflect regionwide views, and cannot be projected to individual states, like Georgia, which votes on Tuesday.
 
Protest Vote Shows Strength
 Mr. Bush is also stronger in the South than elsewhere in the country; 75 percent of those who identify themselves as likely Republican voters in the South say they have a favorable view of Mr. Bush, while 68 percent elsewhere in the country say that. Nationally, Mr. Bush remains the favorite of 75 percent of Republicans for their party's nomination, compared to 16 percent who back Mr. Buchanan.
Still, the potential for a protest vote remained clear: 70 percent of Republcian primary voters in the South as well as the rest of the country said they thought Mr. Buchanan was "saying some things that George Bush needs to hear." Moreover, 40 of the likely Republican voters said they thought Mr. Buchanan could be an effective President, while 37 percent said he could not.
The survey also sought to test some potential liabilities among the various candidates. A third of those who said they were registered voters said they would have doubts about a candidate who had opposed the use of force in the Persian Gulf, a position that the Bush campaign is trying to use against Mr. Buchanan.
But only a 10th said they would have some doubts if they learned a candidate had been treated for cancer years ago -- as Mr. Tsongas was.
Nearly 60 percent of the registered voters said their votes would be unaffected by allegations that Mr. Clinton had had an extramarital affair. But they said they thought it would have a big effect on the votes of other people -- with only 25 percent saying it would be unlikely to affect the votes of other people.
The draft issue seemed to cut deeper. About one in five registered voters said the allegations that Mr. Clinton had manipulated his draft status would make them choose someone else, while 41 percent said it would have no effect and 35 percent said it would be one factor among many. There were no significant differences between Southeners and non-Southeners on this.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The New York Times/CBS News Poll: The Nation and the South"

 	 	 	 	Total			Rest of	U.S.		South	U.S.	 	 	 	 	30%	Republican	26%	32%	32	Independent	29	35	33	Democrat	40	29	20	Liberal	17	22	43	Moderate	39	45	31	Conservative	35	29		Say they approve of the way George	 	 	40	Bush is handling his job as President	42	38	49	Say they disapprove	46	50		Say the economy in their state is:	 	 	35	Very good or fairly good	38	33	64	Very bad or fairly bad	60	67		Asked of registered voters:	 	 		Say the candidates for President	 	 		really understand what everyday	 	 	30	life is like for people like themselves	26	32		Say the candidates for President don't	 	 	64	understand	67	62	 (Based on telephone interviews conducted Feb. 26 - March 1 with 1,673 adults including 801 in the South. Those with no opinion are not shown.) (pg.A18)
 
Table: "The New York Times/CBS News Poll: Judging the Candidates"
 Likely primary voters were asked whether their opinion of each candidate was favorable, not favorable or undecided or whether they hadn't heard enough about the candidate to have an opinion.

 	 	 	 			Not	No	Democratic Voters on:	Favorable	Favorable	Opinion	 	 	 	 	Edmund G. Brown Jr.	 	 	 	 Total Voters	11%	22%	67%	 Southern Voters	5	20	75	 Non-Southern Voters	16	23	61	Bill Clinton	 	 	 	 Total Voters	28	21	52	 Southern Voters	35	17	48	 Non-Southern Voters	22	24	54	Tom Harkin	 	 	 	 Total Voters	9	17	75	 Southern Voters	7	11	80	 Non-Southern Voters	11	19	70	Bob Kerrey	 	 	 	 Total Voters	13	12	74	 Southern Voters	9	11	80	 Non-Southern Voters	17	13	70	Paul Tsongas	 	 	 	 Total Voters	29	16	56	 Southern Voters	22	14	64	 Non-Southern Voters	34	17	49	 	 	 	 	Republican Voters on:	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Pat Buchanan	 	 	 	 Total Voters	21	37	42	 Southern Voters	23	36	42	 Non-Southern Voters	19	38	43	George Bush	 	 	 	 Total Voters	71	13	16	 Southern Voters	75	9	16	 Non-Southern Voters	68	15	16	David Duke	 	 	 	 Total Voters	4	74	23	 Southern Voters	7	68	25	 Non-Southern Voters	2	77	21	 (Based on telephone interviews conducted Feb. 26-March 1 with 583 Democratic primary voters nationwide including 307 in Southern and border states. The 482 Republican primary voters interviewed included 223 in Southern and border states.) (A18)
 
How the Poll Was Conducted
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted last Wednesday through Sunday with 1,673 adults around the United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges in the country. The exchanges were chosen to assure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. The numbers were then screened so that calls would be placed to residences only. Within each household one adult was designated at random to be the respondent for the poll.
To allow a more detailed examination of attitudes in the Southern region, telephone numbers in Southern states were selected at higher rates than those in other states. But the results from all regions were then weighted to reflect the actual adult population of the nation. The results have also been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines and to adjust for variations in race, sex, age, and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than 3 percentage points either way from what would have been obtained from all American adults.
The potential sampling error for smaller subgroups is larger. For example, for registered respondents in the South who say they planned to or usually vote in Democratic primaries or caucuses, it is plus or minus 6 percentage points, and for registered Republican primary voters in the South it is plus or minus 7 percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. (pg. A18)
 
Graph shows Bush's approval ratings in March 1991, October 1991 and present, based on nationwide polls by The New York Times and CBS News. (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRIMARIES; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX LAW (64%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); TSONGAS, PAUL E GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (88%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); JERRY BROWN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



92 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Week;
Hopefuls Turn South, Taking the Low Road

BYLINE: By HOWELL RAINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 2

 BODY:
The Presidential campaign has moved south, and it is not a pretty sight on either side.
The battle between President Bush and Patrick J. Buchanan is a mean-spirited, low-road contest featuring, in Mr. Buchanan's attacks on "quota bills" and the 1965 Voting Rights Act, the most forthright appeals to white racial animosities seen in Georgia since Lester Maddox's 1966 campaign for governor. 
 The Democratic contest on Tuesday in all four primary states is less brutish, but the disappointment of the party's voters and its Washington establishment over their five-candidate field has become a moveable cloud that seems to follow the five all around the country.
Here in Georgia, the dyspeptic mood contrasts sharply with the bright splashes of pansies and daffodils on the greening lawns. On such a lawn outside the Carter Presidential Center on Sunday, a well-groomed woman with a Tsongas sign confronted two equally well-groomed, but somewhat younger women wearing Clinton buttons. "Don't vote for him," said the Tsongas supporter. "He's an adulterer."
Well, politics does tend to be plain spoken in these parts. The candidates and their advisers are nerved up, too, because they know that the 4 primaries on Tuesday and the 11 contests on March 10 will determine the first casualties in the Democratic field and, to a less certain degree, the future of the Buchanan insurgency.
Among the Democrats, Gov. Bill Clinton is trying to use this moment of maximum advantage to shape the Democratic field and the debate. On the economic front, he is stepping up his pummeling of former Senator Paul E. Tsongas as a de facto Republican who shares President Bush's view of the sanctity of capital and is willing to spend $10 billion in investment-linked tax breaks.
The Clinton forces believe that the best cure for their troubles with the infidelity and draft issues is to get as quickly as possible to a two-man contest with Mr. Tsongas. Toward that end, they are spreading the word that a loss in Colorado will doom the hopes of Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska. They are eager to get Senator Kerrey out for a simple reason.
Even though the Nebraskan's on-the-job training as a candidate has been painful to watch, his opponents still fear that if allowed to linger he could live up to his early billing as the Democrat's first New Age superstar. But that seems unlikely unless Senator Kerrey dumps the ill-fitting pugnacity foisted on him by his handlers and reclaims his aura of idealism.
Right now, Mr. Tsongas is basking in the glory of making the first cut, but his querulous performance in this weekend's debates has given senior Democrats a bad case of Dukakis flashbacks. Mr. Tsongas's pursed-lip challenge to the other candidtes to "take the pledge" against mean talk and his whining about Mr. Clinton's "attack-dog" adviser, James Carville, were distinctly Not Presidential.
Even so, it will be a legitimate coup if Mr. Tsongas can sneak out a victory in Colorado before his ambivalent stand on nuclear power starts undermining him in the West. Victories in the Rockies and Maryland would establish Mr. Tsongas as a national candidate, but it is an open question as to whether he is ready for the pounding that Mr. Clinton and his Southern buddies have on tap.
Georgia will be a good test for how much damage Mr. Clinton has suffered in the South. Representative John Lewis, the civil rights hero from Atlanta, says Mr. Clinton will finish first, with more than 40 percent. If so, that means that Mr. Lewis and other black politicians have turned out their vote while the state's durable Governor, Zell Miller, has brought the old courthouse Democrats to a native son. But no one expects that to cure the walking-on-eggshells feel of the Clinton candidacy.
Back in Washington, the Democratic scandal watch remains on high alert. The Congressional Democrats still dream of getting Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas or Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri into the race, but neither name stirs even a whisper of a draft out in the country.Some real Democratic voters still perk up at the name of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, but then they quickly nod off.
The continuing concern over the Democratic field rests on a strong foundation of feeling among Democrats, independents and a surprising number of worried Republicans that Mr. Bush can be had in the fall.
But only a few leading Republicans, like Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr. of South Carolina, seem to have tipped to what Mr. Buchanan is doing to their party's image in the South. Mr. Buchanan is pummeling Georgians with commercials that have laid bare the devil's bargain implicit in the Reagan and Bush campaigns' use of racial symbols in the last three elections.
The old Bush campaign team of 1988 had the spunk and the organizaitonal muscle to drive a stake through the heart of any political threat to a Republican incumbent or to the long-term good of their party. But from all the signs here, if Mr. Bush cripples Mr. Buchanan on Tuesday, he can lay it more to luck than to what is fast establishing itself as a memorably lackluster White House campaign team.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Primaries and Caucuses: What's at Stake Today" lists states holding primaries, number of delegates per state, parties voting, voter registration, 1988 primary winner and forecasts of results.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); WOMEN (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); ELECTION LAW (73%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (50%); 

PERSON: RAINES, HOWELL BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



93 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Opens Environment Talks; Europe Spurs U.S. to Act Urgently

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, March 2

 BODY:
European nations said today that they were prepared to offer more money to help developing countries comply with proposed new treaties on the environment, and they urged the United States to do the same.
The Europeans called attention to another major difference between the United States and others in the industrial world by reaffirming their commitment to hold emissions of gases that warm the atmosphere in the year 2000 to 1990 levels -- a pledge that the Bush Administration has so far refused to make. 
 The Europeans' positions were outlined on the opening day of a five-week conference here to prepare for a world environmental summit meeting in Rio de Janeiro in June. The purpose of the June meeting is to forge a consensus on making world economic growth ecologically safe and sustainable.
Such an agreement would be codified the form of conventions curbing greenhouse gas emissions and protecting plants and animals. At the June meeting, participants also hope to agree on a general statement of environmental principles, to be called the Earth Charter, and a detailed plan of action for the 21st century.
 
It Won't Be Cheap
 The extraordinarily high cost of meeting such goals was re-emphasized today by Maurice F. Strong, a Canadian who has been named secretary general of the Rio de Janeiro meeting. At a news conference, he said the total bill could be as high as $600 billion a year, with developing countries requiring $70 billion more a year in aid.
Mr. Strong said that for natural resources to have the chance to be protected, poverty would have to be alleviated. World population would also have to be stabilized, easing stress on the environment, he said.
As European countries pressed the United States to change its positions for the Rio meeting, third-world countries made their case to the relatively well-off nations of the Northern Hemisphere. These poorer countries are seeking a global compact under which rich nations would provide them with money and technology to protect resources and develop their economies in environmentally sustainable ways.
Senegal's Minister of Tourism and Environmental Protection, Jacques Baudin, said third-world countries had "a right and a duty to develop." He argued that they could do so either by using environmentally friendly technology or by taking the damaging routes to riches that many of the northern countries had used.
 
Altruism and 'Planet Earth'
 "Africa is looking to the developed countries to curb their national egoism to save planet earth," Mr. Baudin said.
Speaking on behalf of the European Community, Portugal's Environmental Minister, Carlos Borrego, agreed that new financial resources would be needed to help developing countries meet the Rio de Janeiro goals, and he urged "other industrialized countries" -- an allusion to the United States -- to adopt a similar position.
While European and other industrial nations have committed $1.5 billion to a fund to help developing countries meet their obligations under these conventions and are prepared to give more, the United States at first refused to contribute anything. Last week, though, it offered $75 million.
 
Briton Subtly Prods U.S.
 Britain's Environment Secretary, Michael Heseltine, implicitly criticized American reluctance to accept clear-cut goals for reducing greenhouse emissions, saying "clear and ambitious targets" offer the best way to promote sustainable world economic development.
He said that the recent findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change leave governments little choice but to establish a process for stabilizing the climate and fighting global warming.
He said the climate negotiations were "at a critical moment," with the majority of the richer countries ready to cooperate with the third world in drawing up the needed convention. Unspoken but implicit in his remarks was an appeal to the United States to get into step with other industrial nations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); PORTUGAL (74%); 

STATE: EARTH (92%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); PORTUGAL (74%); EARTH (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID; WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (61%); POPULATION SIZE (58%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



94 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Democrats;
He's Not Running, but Everybody Is Following Jackson Through the South

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ORANGEBURG, S.C., March 2

 BODY:
He chided the other Democrats for having a "message gap." He accused the Republicans of stoking racism in their television commercials. And all over his native state today, exuberant crowds greeted him like somebody on his way to the White House.
The Rev. Jesse Jackson had reason to come here triumphant: He won the South Carolina caucuses in 1988. Though he is not a candidate this time, Mr. Jackson could have fooled a lot of people today into thinking that he was. 
 Practically lost in all the attention heaped on Mr. Jackson was why he was here in the first place. He was here to stump for Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, who is desperate to tap Mr. Jackson's reservoir of black support in the South and resuscitate his flagging campaign.
Mr. Jackson made clear that he was not endorsing Mr. Harkin, who hopes to make a good showing in the contest here on Saturday. He said the Senator was simply the first to take up his offer to all the Democrats to campaign on their behalf, and later this week he plans to travel with Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska.
 
Giving Advice and Approval
 But the campaigning by Mr. Jackson today was less about Mr. Harkin and more about the onetime Chicago preacher, talk show host, head of the National Rainbow Coalition and two-time Presidential candidate. Always hungry for publicity, Mr. Jackson has sought a role for himself as the eminence grise of the 1992 campaign, the man the candidates come to for advice, even tutelage, and approval.
"It's an attempt to broaden the focus of the campaign," Mr. Jackson said of his efforts. "I've made myself available to spend time with each of the candidates to take them places they might not go to ordinarily, to where people live in inadequate housing, people are homeless, are walking the streets at noonday, unemployed with no place to go."
For Mr. Harkin, that meant breakfast with a dairy farmer and touring the sprawling, red-brick Saxon Homes housing project this morning in downtown Columbia, S.C., mingling with poor and disabled residents.
But the people gathered were not there to see the present Presidential candidate but the past Presidential candidate. As residents and reporters followed Mr. Jackson into an elevator in one building, Mr. Harkin squeezed in almost as an afterthought.
Leonard Brown, a 41-year-old Saxon Homes resident, was one who came to see Mr. Jackson. As for Mr. Harkin, he said: "I know nothing about him, what he's doing, what he's about. I don't know nothing. But Jesse Jackson has proven himself."
It was a fact that Mr. Jackson did not let anyone forget. He reminded reporters that he drew seven million votes in the 1988 primaries. He credited himself with paving the way for issues like national health insurance and reindustrializing the nation that have become staples of this year's campaign dialogue. And he talked of his successes at registering millions of voters.
Asked if he regretted not running this time, Mr. Jackson was quick to say, "There has been a lot of pressure for me to reconsider." He said he was perfectly happy registering voters and pressing for statehood for the District of Columbia as its non-voting representative to the Senate.
 
'Jesse! Jesse!'
 Even so, Mr. Jackson's commentary on the Democratic field was hardly enthusiastic. "These candidates will grow as they go," he said.
And Mr. Jackson acted much like a candidate at a rally today at South Carolina State University here, where he was greeted with a standing ovation and chants of "Jesse! Jesse!"
"I watched the ads about Duke and Buchanan and Bush coming South," he said, "And they always come underestimating our intelligence. The fact of the matter is in South Carolina, we've lost our textile jobs. And no ads about textiles going abroad. They closed a G.M. plant right down the road. There are no ads about that. You look at the de-industrialization of our state. There are no ads about that."
Declaring that the nation's economy was "in a state of emergency," Mr. Jackson put forward a retooled campaign speech from 1988. Only at the end of his address did he mention Mr. Harkin, who, he said, "has a tremendous track record in social justice, fairness to farmers and fairness to workers -- he deserves your attention."
Mr. Harkin got no big ovation when he rose to speak and allowed that "I know none of you even know me."
But he took pains to link himself to Mr. Jackson, saying that he, too, knew what personal struggle was about. Citing his childhood in rural Iowa, he said: "You've got to know where I come from. I come from the bottom, too."
Mr. Harkin talked about his support for civil rights struggles and seemed to win over the students with his attacks on President Bush.
Pointing to the mostly black crowd, Mr. Harkin said of the President: "He'll run against you. He'll find some slogan, some code word, and he'll come down and divide us so he can lead us. He won't win. Not this time. People want hope, not hate."
The students clapped in agreement, but when it was all over, it was Jesse Jackson, not Tom Harkin, who seemed to be the one running for President.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Campaigning in South Carolina yesterday, Senator Tom Harkin greeted Tom Trantham, right, a dairy farmer, before having breakfast on his farm in Pelzer. At left was the Rev. Jesse Jackson. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAINBOW COALITION (54%); NATIONAL RAINBOW COALITION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RAINBOW COALITION (54%); NATIONAL RAINBOW COALITION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH CAROLINA UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 RACE & RACISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); HOMELESSNESS (62%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; JACKSON, JESSE L (REV); HARKIN, TOM (SEN) TOM HARKIN (92%); JESSE JACKSON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



95 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Kaye, Scholer and its former managing partner were sued by the U.S. for their role in representing Charles Keating. The suit is the largest ever brought against an adviser to a failed saving institution by the Government, which also moved to freeze the New York law firm's assets. [Page A1.] Until his affiliation with Keating and Lincoln Savings, Peter M. Fishbein led a very charmed legal career as head of Kaye, Scholer. [D8.]
Sun Microsystems has hired the Russian scientist who created the supercomputers used by the Soviet space program and by its military to design nuclear weapons. [A1.] 
 Rexene's chairman and chief executive resigned. William J. Gilliam's departure seemed like the latest case of mutiny by corporate directors against management. [D1.]
The Ramada Renaissance hopes to stand out in New York's crowded hotel market. [D1.]
Equitable Life said it lost $898 million last year, citing a large accounting charge. [D19.]
Castrol's false-advertising claim against Quaker State was upheld by a Federal judge in Manhattan. [D24.]
Digital Equipment offered early retirement to 7,000 workers, with employees as young as 50 eligible for benefits. [D4.]
Avis will back a bill to limit car-rental companies' liability in accidents caused by renters. [B3.]
 
The Economy
The economy expanded sharply in February, pushed by surges in both production and the level of new orders, the nation's purchasing managers said. [D1.]
Consumer spending rose 0.2 percent in January, a slight gain, but the third straight increase. [D6.]Construction spending rose 1.3 percent. [D6.]
The U.S. public overwhelmingly supports the middle-class tax cut Democrats in Congress propose, but does not give the Democrats much credit for the idea, a poll shows. [D1.] Senator Bentsen is expected to ask the Finance Committee to approve a maximum income tax rate of 36 percent to pay for a tax credit. [D7.]
 
International
Honda owes millions in tariffs because Civics imported from Canada do not contain enough North American parts, the Administration ruled, in a move likely to intensify trade tensions. [D1.]
An agreement that would allocate global radio frequencies for fleets of low-orbiting satellites serving portable telephone and message services has been reached. [D1.]
The legendary willingness of Japanese workers to toil long and hard without complaining is giving way to a new debate over whether Japanese are working too hard. [A8.]
 
Markets
Stocks notched light gains in ho-hum trading. The Dow rose 7.60, to 3,275.27. [D10.] As much as 40 percent of trading in U.S. stocks "appears to be subject to some sort of inducement to order flow," an S.E.C. official said. [D10.]
Prices of Treasury securities fell sharply, as traders were surprised by a report showing strength in manufacturing. [D19.]
Fears of a Midwestern drought helped to raise grain and soybean futures prices. [D20.] The dollar rose. [D20.]
 
Today's Columns
Health coverage that combines workers' compensation, disability and general medical insurance is being considered in at least eight states. Milt Freudenheim: Business and Health. [D2.]
The foundation that owns 74 percent of Wellcome said it planned to lower its stake to as little as 25 percent through an international offering. Market Place. [D10.]
At Lintas New York, Tony DeGregorio confronts his most challenging task to date, defending the estimated $60 million Mastercard account. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D24.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JAVA (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KAYE SCHOLER LLP (92%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); KAYE SCHOLER (81%); NEW YORK (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: KAYE SCHOLER (81%); NEW YORK (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (79%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); LAWYERS (75%); NEW ORDERS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); JUDGES (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (70%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); APPROVALS (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (64%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (64%); CONSUMER SPENDING (64%); INCOME TAX (63%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (56%); 

PERSON: CHARLES H KEATING JR (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



96 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Service Academies Grapple With Cold War Thaw

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ANNAPOLIS, Md.

 BODY:
When Carlos Flores entered the United States Naval Academy here four years ago, he and his first-year classmates spent six weeks memorizing details of Soviet ships and aircraft, and even the speeds of Moscow's missiles.
"We learned how the Soviet psyche would think," Midshipman Flores said. "But that emphasis is gone now." The 21-year-old native of Fort Worth leaves for training in nuclear submarine propulsion after he graduates in May, wondering what the future holds. 
 While students at civilian colleges worry about getting a job in a recession, some cadets and midshipmen at the nation's military service academies fear their careers may be imperiled before they have barely begun.
 
A Fast-Shrinking Fleet
 The Soviet threat is gone and the Navy that Midshipman Flores will join is shrinking fast, roiling the waters of uncertainty at the service academies. And the academies are digging in and defending their position in the post-cold-war world.
A visitor to the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs or the Naval Academy comes away with a sense that these elite institutions, built on honor, duty and tradition, are grappling with change -- fearing for future careers while stubbornly confident that the armed forces will always rely on a core of leaders from their ranks.
Congress has ordered the Army, Navy and Air Force academies to shrink their enrollments by 10 percent by 1995, to 4,000 students each, to conform to personnel cuts in the armed forces.
And two Congressional agencies have questioned the value of the Pentagon's spending $650 million a year on institutions that produce only 10 percent to 15 percent of the military's total active officer corps, but 30 percent to 50 percent of its generals and admirals. Reserve Officers Training Corps scholarships generate most of the commissioned officers in the armed forces.
 
'Leadership Laboratories'
 "If we don't re-examine our purpose and look to see how our graduates are performing in the current world, we risk our very existence as an academy," said Brig. Gen. Ruben A. Cubero, the faculty dean at the Air Force Academy.
Since 1802, when West Point was founded, followed by the Naval Academy in 1845 and the Air Force Academy in 1954, the military has coveted its academies as "leadership laboratories," producing a long and distinguished line of military and naval leaders.
Today, Army and Air Force cadets and Navy midshipmen receive a four-year college education and a monthly salary of $543.90 in exchange for at least five years of active-duty service after graduation.
The academies accept about 10 percent of the 12,000 to 16,000 annual applicants, whose combined college board scores average about 1,200, on a par with such universities as Duke, Cornell and Notre Dame.
 
Female Enrollment at 13%
 Successful applicants must also be nominated to an academy by the President, the Vice President or a member of Congress. The academies first admitted women in 1976, and female students now make up about 13 percent of the enrollment at the academies.
Interviews with dozens of students at the academies show a wide array of reasons for selecting the service academies over civilian colleges, reasons that range from a desire for discipline and direction to the academies' reputations.
Marcy Dupre, a 24-year-old midshipman from Columbia, S.C., is following in the steps of five grandfathers, great-grandfathers and other relatives who attended the Naval Academy. "It's in my blood to go here," he said. At his graduation this spring he will receive his commission as a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps. Eventually, he hopes to return to the Naval Academy as an instructor.
"President Bush talks a lot about budget cuts, so who really knows what will happen," Midshipman Dupre said. "At least I know for the next five or six years I'll have a paycheck coming in. A lot of people coming out of college now can't say that."
 
An Interservice University
 Critics of the academies contend that the shrinking enrollments are driving up the price of an already expensive education, and call on Congress to study the feasibility of combining the three academies into one interservice defense university. The services strongly oppose such a plan.
The General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, and the Congressional Budget Office reported last year that the Defense Department spends $155,000 to $230,000 to produce each academy graduate.
The agencies said the Pentagon spends only about one-third that amount to commission an officer through R.O.T.C. programs at civilian colleges. But Academy officials say those calculations fail to include other sources of Federal financing at those colleges that would increase the Government's actual cost for training officers through R.O.T.C.
 
Some Curriculum Changes
 As in universities nationwide, the collapse of Communism in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union has the service academies scrambling to rewrite parts of their curriculum, particularly in history and political science, where instructors are relying more on newspapers, magazines and television news.
"We just redid the syllabus over the summer," said Capt. Deborah Charron of the Air Force, a political science instructor. "But books aren't keeping up with what's going on in the world. To me that's not a problem, but a challenge."
Despite the long hours that Midshipman Flores and his classmates spent studying the characteristics of Soviet ships and submarines, most of the military instruction that cadets and midshipmen receive is very basic, and that is not likely to change substantially in the post-cold-war world.
The Air Force and Navy academies are heavily weighted toward academic majors in science and engineering, which are not affected by political upheaval. West Point is divided more equally between technical and humanities disciplines.
Academy officials insist their mission is not likely to change drastically, if at all, with the collapse of the Soviet Union. "We're not creating anti-communists here -- we're providing leaders for America," said Lieut. Gen. Howard D. Graves, the superintendent of West Point.
But decades of classroom and field training focused on Soviet-style doctrine, tactics and weaponry will make it difficult for the services to change their orientation overnight.
In the end, the question rests on future opportunities, and here students give differing views.
 
The 'Top Gun' Fraternity
 At "service selection" night recently at Annapolis, when graduating seniors pick their Navy speciality, an ornate room fills with the smell of new leather jackets, the emblem, along with aviator sunglasses, of Navy fighter pilots. The room oozes testosterone as Navy admirals welcome their youngest brethren to the "top gun" fraternity.
"The world is a very unstable place," said Midshipman Todd Finkler, 21, of Chester, Va., who was accepted at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology but wanted to fly Navy FA-18's instead. "The threat will still be the Russians and instability in the Middle East."
In Capt. Howdy Belknap's American history class at West Point, plebes pause in a discussion of counterinsurgency tactics in the Spanish-American War to express their concerns.
"It's frightening to think you could put in four years of hard work here, and then get kicked out later," said Brian Perez, an 18-year-old plebe from Huntington, L.I. "It seems now you have to be perfect or the Army doesn't want you."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the nation's military academies, cadets and midshipmen fear for future careers while remaining confident that the armed forces will always rely on a core of leaders from their ranks. At the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, cadets traversed the campus in formation. (Eric Lars Bakke for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MARYLAND USA (92%); 

CITY: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (92%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (WEST POINT, NY); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (COLORADO); UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (ANNAPOLIS, MD) FORT WORTH MORTGAGE (57%); UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (92%); UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (92%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (91%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (91%); US AIR FORCE (82%); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (59%); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (59%); US NAVY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (WEST POINT, NY); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (COLORADO); UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (ANNAPOLIS, MD) UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (92%); UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (92%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (91%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (91%); US AIR FORCE (82%); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (59%); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (59%); US NAVY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); COLORADO, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MARYLAND USA (92%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (92%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (99%); ARMED FORCES (91%); NAVIES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ARMIES (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



97 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1942 words

HEADLINE: More Japanese Workers Demanding Shorter Hours and Less Hectic Work

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 2

 BODY:
In self-satisfied tones, Japanese leaders have recently been calling Americans lazy and praising their own workers' eagerness to toil and sacrifice for corporate Japan.
But these days, despite the comments of some Japanese spokesmen, the legendary willingness of Japanese workers to toil long and hard without complaining is giving way to a new debate over whether Japanese are working too hard. Increasingly, Japanese are willing to answer yes. 
 Take Takechi Kikuchi, for instance.
On a routine day, Mr. Kikuchi recalled recently, he had only two and a half minutes to bolt in the gasoline tank and hurriedly attach 10 other parts to each automobile moving down the Nissan assembly line. At peak times, the process was speeded up, and he had to put in up to 12 hours a day.
"We used to mutter plenty of complaints, but we knew nothing would happen," Mr. Kikuchi said. "At the end of the day, I was so tired that I only felt like watching television or going to bed."
Because of complaints from workers like Mr. Kikuchi, unions have begun demanding shorter hours, and workers are saying more openly that their long hours on the job have not yielded sufficient benefits or improved standards of living.
"The Japanese are clearly overworked," said Hiroyuki Kawaguchi, assistant general secretary of Rengo, the nation's largest trade union federation. "After all these years of prosperity, we are at a turning point. From now on, the system must respond to our demands for shorter hours."
 
Average Hours Have Been Falling
 Mr. Kawaguchi's prediction may be overstated, but the downward trend in work time is clear and has been for some time. Many offices and factories that used to be open on Saturday have started to stay closed all weekend in the last couple of years. The average time worked by Japanese declined from 2,432 hours a year in 1960 to 2,009 last year, according to the Ministry of Labor.
The Ministry has set a target of 1,800 hours next year and is pushing for legislation to achieve the goal. Few believe that it can be reached, but it has become politically popular in Japan to call for everyone to stop working so hard.
"Shorter working hours and more comfortable workplaces are national goals to make our working lives less stressful," Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said in a recent speech, sounding a note that contrasted sharply with his recent comment that Americans may lack a "work ethic."
Despite the decline in work hours, Japanese still work harder than Americans. By some calculations, they work the equivalent of a month more than their American counterparts every year.
While it is difficult to quantify the average Japanese workweek, auto workers at peak periods typically work 12-hour shifts with any time put in after the standard 8-hour shift paid at 125 percent of the normal pay. White collar workers typically put in 13-hour days or more with no overtime paid.
The Labor Ministry's statistics showing that Japanese work shorter hours probably exaggerate the trend because Japanese companies routinely underreport the hours their employees work. A recent survey found that 55 percent of employees worked unpaid -- and unrecorded -- overtime.
Last month, labor inspectors raided 80 branches of a dozen big financial institutions, where a third of the employees were found to have been improperly required to put in large amounts of unpaid overtime.
The Government reprimanded the offending companies -- many of them the cream of corporate Japan -- but carried out no punishments. But the companies were clearly embarrassed. So was Hitachi Ltd., which was recently sued by a factory worker claiming he had been dismissed because he refused to work overtime.
 
More Identification With the Company
 Part of the reason that Japanese seem to work harder relates to cultural distinctions, including the fact that Japanese identify more with their companies than workers in other countries do and therefore accept and enjoy a great deal of socializing connected to the office or factory.
A recent survey by the Hakuhodo Institute for Life and Living, a research institute, said Japanese are far more dedicated to their workplaces, and like to spend more time there than Americans. For instance, a majority felt that group morning calisthenics on the job and singing the company song were entirely appropriate.
Japanese white collar workers also routinely go out evenings with their bosses or colleagues, returning home toward midnight. They go on weekend outings, golf games and other activities, not considering this to be part of work, even though their attendance is viewed as less than voluntary.
Most office workers in surveys also say that if their supervisor works late, they feel they also have to stay late, even if there is no work to do. For these reasons, armies of commuters heading home late at night do so after what workers in other countries might not consider real work.
"By objective standards, it may seem crazy," said a young bureaucrat at a major Japanese ministry who usually does not get home until midnight. "The dilemma of white collar workers is that they dislike working late, but they haven't found a practical alternative."
 
Two Industrialists In Bitter Debate
 The debate over work and its benefits has produced an unusually bitter argument in public between two respected industrial figures.
On one side is Takeshi Nagano, president of the Japan Federation of Employers Association, who is battling the labor unions' drive for shorter working hours and higher wages.
On the other side has been Akio Morita, the chairman of Sony Corporation, one of the best-known Japanese businessmen, who has written articles and given speeches demanding that workers be allowed to share more of Japan's prosperity.
Mr. Morita said the past suppression of wages and demand for long hours have been part of a corporate strategy to enhance profits and make companies more competitive.
The strategy, he said, has led to Japan's huge trade surpluses over the years. Now, of course, the surpluses are spreading alarm as well as envy.
"Rather than building vast reserves of cash, Japanese companies should show a greater willingness to share the fruits of their profits with worldwide stockholders and employes," he said in a speech.
In 1990, Japanese workers in the manufacturing sector earned an average of $12.42 an hour, compared with $10.84 an hour in the United States. But these figures are at the current exchange rate; at rates prevailing until a few years ago, Japanese hourly wages were much lower than American hourly wages. Japanese workers also say that because the cost of living in Japan is much higher than in the United States, their purchasing power is well below that of American workers.
Mr. Morita's comments in favor of workers have gotten widespread publicity and support. "Japanese workers are getting kind of fed up with the hard work," said Haruo Shimada, professor of economics at Keio University in Tokyo, who studies labor issues.
"A few years ago, when the economy started to boom, unions actually cooperated with companies to step up the work," Mr. Shimada added. "Everyone worked liked crazy for a few years, but then they realized they were actually losing out."
 
Unions Considered Part of the Problem
 Often, however, the unions are regarded as part of the problem, not the solution. This is because almost all unions for private companies in Japan are company unions. Their officers are company employees who can expect to be rewarded by the company if they do a good job in curbing union militancy.
A Nissan auto worker, for instance, said that at the height of car production in 1987, the company speeded up the work and the unions did nothing. He said that pauses of 10 seconds between tasks were eliminated and that workers had to carry parts on their belts to save the time taken to get them from the shelf.
"The workers were totally uninterested in what the union does, because the union is useless and powerless," said the worker, speaking on condition of anonymity. "They just do whatever management wants."
Further, Japan has pioneered in breaking work forces down into small units responsible for keeping output up. In such a setup, fellow workers suffer if someone takes a day off, even for illness. Absenteeism and sick leave are very low in Japan, compared with other industrial countries.
Another Nissan worker, interviewed outside a factory in Yokohama, said a colleague recently wanted to leave at 5 P.M. after a long day to attend a parents night at school. But he succumbed to the pressure of other workers to stay on the job.
"We felt bad, but that is the way the system works," he said.
 
Head Bands Reduce Mopping of Brows
 Not surprisingly, critics on the left in Japan see such techniques as exploitive. A Communist member of Parliament, Tetsuzo Fuwa, recently accused Toyota and Nissan of working factory employees in long shifts "as though they are living in the 19th century."
"The company supplies workers with head bands to save the seven seconds necessary for workers to mop their sweating brows," he added.
Not everyone feels exploited, however. Mr. Kikuni, the Nissan worker who got tired when his assembly line was speeded up, said he managed to get used to the faster pace during the time it was in force last year. "I didn't really mind too much because I needed the extra money," he said.
More recently, the pace has slackened because car sales have slumped, and Mr. Kikuni has transferred from the speeded-up plant, in Tokyo, to another Nissan factory, this one assembling engines, in Yokohama. "I don't think anyone feels overworked now," he said of his eight-hour shifts.
In the automobile industry, one widely praised feature -- the system of lifetime employment guarantees -- actually worked against employees.
In the late 1980's, when demand for cars soared, output increased from 3.4 million cars to 5.1 million in 1990. Companies were reluctant to hire new workers for fear they would have too many when output fell off, so they simply had everyone work longer hours. The company unions went along with enthusiasm.
"Rank-and-file members generally agree that they should make an extra effort when the cars made by our company are selling well," said Katsutoshi Aihara, secretary general of Nissan's labor union. "Our workers feel they cannot refuse overtime when consumers want our cars."
 
Looking for More Out of Life
 Going against such demands, many studies have found that Japanese are looking for something more out of life than toiling at the factory or office. The Hakuhodo Institute of Life and Living, in its study last year, said the myth of Japanese "workaholics" was breaking down.
"Contrary to popular misconception, they are not ants slaving away for the company at the expense of their private lives and families," the institute said. "A growing number are beginning to pursue non-job-related interests and are beginning to enjoy their family life more."
The debate over whether Japanese or Americans work harder is clouded finally by definitions of what constitutes work. Japanese work long hours, but a lot of it is spent going through the ceremonies of meetings, consensus-building, exchanging business cards, having tea and building relationships.
"American professionals in offices may work fewer hours, but they work more intensely than Japanese," said Masamoto Yashiro, executive vice president at Citicorp in Japan. "In the United States, you know, you can get straight down to business. You just can't do that in Japan."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The willingness of Japanese workers to toil long and hard is giving rise to a new debate over whether they work too much. A poster in Tokyo showing changes in weekly work hours over the last few years, and projecting further changes, calls on workers to pursue non-job-related interests. (Associated Press for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "On the Job" compares average annual hours worked in manufacturing in Japan with US rate, 1960 - 1990. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Japanese Ministry of Labor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WORKING HOURS; PUBLIC OPINION NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (89%); WORK WEEK (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); TRENDS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ETHICS (66%); LIVING STANDARDS (66%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



98 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Edge Ahead, With Dow Up 7.60

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON Jr.

 BODY:
Stocks notched light gains in lackluster trading yesterday. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 7.60 points, to 3,275.27.
The Dow dropped to its low for the day in the first hour of trading, and floated to its high in the final hour, with the two extremes separated by only 17 points, an unusually narrow trading range. 
 "The day was almost a microcosm of what's been taking place over the past eight weeks," said Peter G. Grennan, head of stock index futures trading at Shearson Lehman Brothers. "Bonds were weak, but the Dow held its own, with this sideways trading."
Dennis Jarrett, chief market analyst at Kidder, Peabody & Company, added: "It was pretty trendless. Everyone's waiting to see what happens with interest rates."
 
Volume Totals 180.7 Million
 Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 180.7 million, down from 221.1 million last Friday. Gaining issues outnumbered losing ones by 907 to 806.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 2.00 points, to 635.47, and the American Stock Exchange index was up just 0.70 point. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 was off 0.25 point, to 412.45, while the Russell Index of 2,000 stocks gained 0.64 point.
"There seems to be a struggle between analysts and investors about where the top of the market is," said Robert C. Walberg, an analyst at MMS International. "The answer remains somewhat confused."
The day's most active stock was the BankAmerica Corporation, up 1, to 44 3/8, on 1.85 million shares traded. On Friday the bank cleared a big legal hurdle in its proposed merger with the Security Pacific Corporation.
Mr. Walberg noted that the Dow had begun to mirror its position in 1991, when a sharp rise in the year's opening weeks was followed by months of level, essentially sideways trading.
"We may evade the 3 to 5 percent correction that many of us had been forecasting," he said.
Mr. Grennan noted that the Dow had closed between 3,225 and 3,275 on about three of every four trading days over the last two months.
Ecolab Inc. leaped 7 1/8, to 34, after the cleaning and sanitizing concernannounced a decision to shed Chemlawn, a landscaping care operation that has been a steady financial drain since 1988.
Ecolab, which plans to sell or spin-off Chemlawn by midyear, classified the subsidiary as a discontinued operation, with a $275 million loss in 1991. Ecolab's own earnings totaled $56 million, down from 1990's $58 million.
India Growth Fund rose 4 7/8, to 23, after the Indian Government announced proposals for economic reform in its revised fiscal year 1992 plan. India Growth is a fund that invests at least 80 percent of its assets in securities issued by companies in India.
Grace Energy rose 2 1/2, to 17, after W. R. Grace & Company offered to buy the 4 million shares -- or 16.6 percent -- of the company that it did not already own. Grace Energy's operations include supplying services and equipment to the oil industry, as well as the exploration and development of oil and natural gas.
On the down side, the Computer Sciences Corporation fell 6, to 76 3/8, after an Environmental Protection Agency audit identified $13 million in questionable charges by the firm, which has a five-year, $347 million contract with the Agency.
In other markets, Hawthorne Financial rose 4 1/2, to 24 1/2, after announcing fourth-quarter earnings that were better than expected.
Earl Scheib Inc. jumped 4, to 12 1/2, after the auto parts company announced that its founder, Earl A. Scheib, had died in his sleep over the weekend. The company said it would select a new chairman at a board meeting scheduled for next week.
Hondo Oil dropped 4 3/8, to 12 1/8, after Barron's reported that the oil company's proposal to sell its United States oil and gas properties were a sign of serious trouble.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (93%); BAC (LSE) (93%); 8648 (TSE) (93%); ECL (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS561790 OTHER SERVICES TO BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (85%); NAICS561720 JANITORIAL SERVICES (85%); NAICS561710 EXTERMINATING & PEST CONTROL SERVICES (85%); NAICS325612 POLISH & OTHER SANITATION GOOD MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC7349 BUILDING CLEANING & MAINTENANCE SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (93%); ECOLAB INC (85%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (70%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); NYSE MKT LLC (55%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); NEW ISSUES (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); MERGERS (79%); FUTURES (79%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INTEREST RATES (54%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH JR PETER G GRENNAN (60%); ROBERT C WALBERG (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



99 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Primaries and Caucuses;
TSONGAS APPEARS TO GAIN IN STATES WITH VOTING TODAY

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 2

 BODY:
On the eve of the most important day so far in the 1992 Presidential campaign, Paul E. Tsongas's bid for the Democratic nomination was reported tonight by politicians and poll takers to be gaining rapidly in the seven states scheduled to hold primaries and caucuses.
Polls in three states show the former Massachusetts Senator, whose campaign was derided by many a month ago as an impossible dream, in the lead. Those are Maryland and Colorado, with primaries on Tuesday, and Utah, which has a caucus. In two other caucus states, Minnesota and Washington, Mr. Tsongas is described by local politicians and journalists as the strongest candidate; in a fourth, Idaho, officials said no contender had caught fire. 
 Only in Georgia, whose primary will provide the first test of Southern sentiment this year, do the state polls show Mr. Tsongas trailing his main rival, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, and there are indications that even here, Mr. Clinton's margin might not be as large as had seemed certain a week ago.
A New York Times/CBS News poll of voter sentiment nationally shows Mr. Clinton on top, with the backing for Mr. Tsongas, which grew after the New Hampshire primary, now leveled off.
Traveling between Macon and Columbus, Ga., today, Mr. Clinton lashed out at Mr. Tsongas, accusing him of "blatantly false" advertising. As if to prepare his supporters for bad news, Mr. Clinton said he had not fared as well as he had hoped in Georgia, Maryland and Colorado because his opponent had been able to "have it both ways" on tax and nuclear policy.
 
Intense Schedule for Incumbent
 "This guy gives nothing to the middle class except more pain and more agony," Mr. Clinton said in a bitter commentary on Mr. Tsongas, delivered to reporters as his campaign plane idled on a runway in rural Georgia.
While the Democratic contenders have crisscrossed the nation in the last 72 hours, the Republicans have concentrated on Georgia. President Bush is considered the likely winner here, but his aides expressed considerable nervousness, even after a late endorsement from opponents of abortion.
Mr. Bush spent the day in Washington, but his principal challenger, Patrick J. Buchanan, crossed this state one more time, sounding the racial themes that he hopes will persuade conservative Democrats to cross over, as permitted by Georgia law, to support him in the Republican primary.
At his last stop of the day in Marietta, near Atlanta, Mr. Buchanan, who has been accused of anti-Semitism in the campaign, was greeted by a group of about two dozen Jewish hecklers. He looked out at them and said, "This is a rally of Americans, by Americans and for the good old U.S.A., my friends."
A strong showing by Mr. Buchanan, anything in the area of his New Hampshire total of 37 percent, would be counted another setback for Mr. Bush. The President's approval rating has fallen to 40 percent in the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll, and he no longer has much hope of knocking Mr. Buchanan out of the race in the next few weeks.
One reflection of concern in the Bush camp is a campaign schedule of rare intensity for a sitting President that will take Mr. Bush into seven Southern states before the Super Tuesday votes next week. Until recently, he had taken victory for granted in this region.
On the Democratic side, victories by Mr. Tsongas in contests in the Mid-Atlantic, Midwestern and Western states would banish the notion that he is no more than a regional candidate. They would eclipse Mr. Clinton's anticipated victory here, and give him a head start on the 11 states that vote in a week. That would be even more true if Mr. Clinton's margin in Georgia, the first state in his home region to vote, was a relatively meager one.
In anticipation of a strong showing by the former Senator, several ranking Democrats said they intended to announce their support of him after the voting on Tuesday, although others continue to consider him unelectable.
Mr. Tsongas, speaking at an outdoor news conference in Maryland, declined to make any predictions. "I am a prisoner of your expectations and judgments," he told reporters. Although he said earlier that he needed to win Maryland, this time he said only that he needed to do well there and in Colorado.
In another sign of his campaign's growing pains, the candidate barely mentioned an endorsements from The Atlanta Constitution, this state's most important paper.
 Mr. Clinton was particularly scathing in his denunciations of radio commercials that Mr. Tsongas is running on black stations in Maryland and Georgia. The advertisements urge black voters not to support Mr. Clinton because of his angry reaction last week to an erroneous report that Jesse Jackson was about to endorse Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa. Mr. Clinton dismissed the commercial as "a low-class thing."
"It's a hazardous thing to go out there and say you ought to be elected President because you're the truth teller, and then you're the first one to run a negative ad which is blatantly false," Mr. Clinton said.
As part of an effort he and his aides have made in the last 48 hours to shift attention away from this week's voting and toward Super Tuesday next week and the Illinois and Michigan primaries a week later, Mr. Clinton said, "I think that as time goes on after Georgia, we'll build strength in Illinois."
Of the other Democratic contenders, only Edmund G. Brown Jr. appeared to be making much headway. The former California Governor seemed to be doing especially well in Colorado, where polls showed him close to Mr. Tsongas and Mr. Clinton. As in Maine, where he came within a whisker of victory on Feb. 23, his opposition to nuclear power appeared to be helping him in Colorado.
Mr. Brown campaigned today in Maryland, Georgia and Colorado, while Mr. Harkin stumped through South Carolina with Mr. Jackson. Mr. Kerrey, whose concentration on the West in recent days seems to have brought few dividends, was in California, Washington and Idaho, hoping to spring a suprise or two in the caucus states and win enough delegates to stay alive.
 
Endorsement for Bush
 Mr. Bush won the backing of the National Right to Life Committee at a news conference in Washington. Robert Powell, an official of the organization, said the endorsement was the result of the President's six vetoes to stop the use of taxpayer funds for abortion, and the White House said it should prove helpful in Mr. Bush's effort to hold onto right-wing voters who might otherwise defect to Mr. Buchanan in Georgia on Tuesday.
In both his advertising and his speeches, Mr. Buchanan accused Mr. Bush of having signed a "quota bill" in the Civil Rights Act of 1991. One of his most pungent commercials, showing what appears to be an all-white crowd, comments, "George Bush has broken many promises, but the one that hurts the most is the one that steals hope and fairness from our children."
A key to the Democratic races in Maryland and Georgia will be black voters. The two states have two million black voters between them, and Mr. Clinton is considered the candidate most likely to interest them, both because of his Southern origins and because he has the backing of such major black figures like former Mayor Andrew Young of Atlanta and Mayor Kurt L. Schmoke of Baltimore. But some question how many of the blacks vote.
In Colorado, a poll in The Denver Post that seeks to keep track of day-by-day shifts in voting sentiment showed Mr. Tsongas with a six-point lead over Mr. Clinton, 29 percent to 23 percent, with Mr. Brown at 18 percent. In Maryland, a new poll by Potomac Survey Research gave Mr. Tsongas a 10-point lead, 34.5 percent to 24.3 percent. In Utah, Mr. Tsongas polled 26 percent, twice as much as his closest rivals, in a survey last week. But in Georgia, the latest poll by the Atlanta papers showed Mr. Clinton ahead by a 2-to-1 ratio. The undecided vote in all four states was large, indicating that turnouts would probably be relatively light on Tuesday.
In Idaho, a silent campaign, with candidates spending no more than a few minutes on quick stops at the Boise airport, has led to a widespread lack of interest. Mike Wetherell, the state Democratic chairman, said the traditional support groups were not assembling behind the candidates "because there hasn't been enough time for that kind of thing to develop."
Perhaps the biggest surprise of the election-eve reports was in Minnesota, where a senior Democrat said Mr. Harkin's support seemed to be fading fast. Mr. Tsongas, the official said, "has hit a chord that's resonating in this state, and it looks as if he could win here, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: On the eve of primaries and caucuses in seven states, polls in one of them, Georgia, showed Gov. Bill Clinton to be leading Paul E. Tsongas. Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia talked with Mr. Clinton yesterday during a visit to the Stone Mountain Correctional Facility. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. A18)
 
Table: "Georgia Profile" -- All figures are for 1990 except where indicated. Georgia's population in 1990, excluding people living abroad, was 6,478,216 or 2.6 percent of the U.S. total. It ranks 11th among the states in population.

 	 	 		Ga.	U.S.	 	 	 		 	 	Growth since 1980		18.6%	9.8%	 	 	 	Median age	 	 		31.6	32.8	 	 	 		 	 	Married couple households		55.2%	59.7%	 	 	 		 	 	Unemployment rate	Dec.'91	3.9%	6.8%	 	 	 		 	 	Per capita income		$16,944	$18,685	 	 	 	Race	 	 	White	71.0%	80.3%	Black	27.0	12.1	American	 	 	 Indian	0.2	0.8	Asian	1.2	2.9	Other	0.7	3.9	Hispanic*	1.7	9.0	 *People of Hispanic origin can be of any race.
 
(Sources: Census Bureau; The Almanac of American Politics, 1992; The World Almanac and Book of Facts, 1992; Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GEORGIA (90%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); COLUMBUS, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY CBS NEWS DIVISION (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MARYLAND; COLORADO; UTAH; MINNESOTA; WASHINGTON (STATE); GEORGIA ; IDAHO; SOUTHERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (96%); GEORGIA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); COLUMBUS, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES ; PUBLIC OPINION CAUCUSES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); WRITERS (70%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; TSONGAS, PAUL E; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) ; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



100 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: United Curtails Fare Increase

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 2

 BODY:
United Airlines took a small step back today from a proposed nationwide 2 percent fare increase, saying it would raise only the price of tickets for excursion fares. The higher fares will take effect on Friday.
Delta Air Lines and American Airlines said they too would raise fares for the discounted tickets only. 
 The increases are less aggressive than what United, the nation's second-largest airline, originally proposed on Feb. 20, when the company entered into computer reservation systems an across-the-board increase.
United's move never got the complete support of the airline industry. Analysts said many airlines were afraid higher prices would reduce passenger demand, given the weak economy.
United was forced to scale back the plan when a rival, Delta Air Lines, said earlier today that it would raise prices only on excursion tickets, which generally require round-trip purchases and Saturday night stay-overs.
After United announced its proposed fare rises last month, only USAir Group Inc., Alaska Air Group Inc. and Northwest Airlines matched the across-the-board increases.
American Airlines and Delta -- United's two biggest competitors -- were the holdouts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (91%); DAL (NYSE) (85%); ALK (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (59%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIRLINES INC UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (91%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (85%); ALASKA AIR GROUP INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (59%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FARES AIRLINES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (73%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



101 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Fight Looms Over School Safety Funds

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
The New York City Schools Chancellor, Joseph A. Fernandez, pressed Mayor David N. Dinkins yesterday to pay for a $28 million weapons-detection program in the schools without taking the money from elsewhere in the school budget. But aides to the Mayor said they could not make that guarantee.
With the city's attention still focused on the fatal shootings last week at Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn, Mr. Fernandez made public a letter to Mayor Dinkins laying out his understanding of their fragile weekend agreement on the $28 million effort to purge the city's high schools of deadly weapons. He took pains in the letter to emphasize that the money he had requested was "above and beyond" the amount City Hall has already budgeted for the rest of this fiscal year and for the new fiscal year beginning on July 1. 
 But Mr. Dinkins remained deliberately circumspect about where the money for the new program would come from. Yesterday, Leland T. Jones, the Mayor's spokesman, said the sources for the $28 million had not yet been identified. But, he added, he could not guarantee that the new money come only from the budgets of other municipal agencies. The money might be found by trimming other school expenditures, he said.
"Am I saying the Board of Education is absolutely, 100 percent exempt from that?" Mr. Jones said. "Of course not."
 
Chancellor's Concern
 The reason for Mr. Fernandez's action yesterday, said a senior school official who spoke on condition of anonymity, was the Chancellor's feeling that he was let down last year when City Hall promised $31.5 million in Safe Streets Lottery funds for school security but undercut that allocation by slashing $28.4 million at the last minute out of the regular school budget. Mr. Fernandez feels he was forced to use the lottery money mostly to paste his regular budget back together, the official said.
"We've been through this before," said the school official.
After a weekend of taut conversations with school officials, Mr. Dinkins on Sunday pledged $28 million -- $8 million in the annual operating budget and $20 million in the longterm capital budget -- for daily weapon-screenings at 40 high schools by September. Five schools would have daily visits by weapon-detector teams as soon as June.
The money would be used to hire 140 additional security guards and buy new X-ray machines for screening book bags, metal detectors for body searches and door locks that can be monitored electronically.
Now, students at 19 high schools and 2 junior high schools are scanned with metal detectors, but only once a week.
 
Cuts Everywhere
 Mr. Jones disputed Mr. Fernandez's version of City Hall's budget actions last year, blaming Mr. Fernandez for choosing to use school safety money to close his budget gap, but asked the Board of Education to let "bygones be bygones." He urged Mr. Fernandez to realize that all city agencies are enduring cuts.
"The problem is that too often the Board of Education thinks it is the only one suffering from the recession," he said.
Some Board of Education aides suggested that the new security money would be found in robbing-Peter-to-pay-Paul fashion, by providing less money than has already been earmarked for the rest of the budget. The board has already been told it must cut next year's budget of roughly $7 billion by $100 million in city funds and $89 million in state funds.
The skepticism was most forcefully voiced by Ninfa Segarra, the board's Bronx representative. "I'd like to get assurances that this is actually new money," she said. "We have not had a positive experience."
 
Federal Crime Bill
 In Albany yesterday, Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin, an alumnus of Jefferson High, proposed that the city finance some security measures by delaying a class of police recruits from June 30 to July 1, the beginning of the new fiscal year, saving $20 million in pension contributions. But he said he would support such a move "only if there's an ironclad agreement to spend the money on security."
The forum for much of yesterday's activity was a news conference held at the board's headquarters in Brooklyn by Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, to press for passage of a $3 billion Federal crime bill that would include $100 million for school security measures. Separate versions of the bill have been passed by the House and Senate, but final passage has been stalled by President Bush's threat of a veto because of objections to some provisions.
Mr. Dinkins made a last-minute appearance at the news conference and said Federal action was long overdue when 6,000 New Yorkers were shot last year, 500 of them 16 years old or younger. "Just imagine what that means to our society and its future," the Mayor said.
Mr. Fernandez, in his remarks, expressed his frustration at trying to maintain safe schools while budget cuts were making them more unstable places.
"You can't reduce personnel at school, do away with deans, increase classroom size, do away with materials, do away with the full support services and counselors and not expect some of these to exacerbate the situation," he said.
Mr. Schumer, meanwhile, kept his focus away from the City Hall-Board of Education squabble and on national politics in an election year.
"The President calls himself the education President," Mr. Schumer said. "If he is really the education President, then he's got to make the schools safe by lifting the veto."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: ;THOMAS JEFFERSON HIGH SCHOOL (NYC) BOARD OF EDUCATION (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;THOMAS JEFFERSON HIGH SCHOOL (NYC) BOARD OF EDUCATION (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); GUARDS ; POLICE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PENSIONS; METAL DETECTORS; EDUCATION (SECONDARY); TEENAGERS; FIREARMS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS ; SHOOTINGS BUDGETS (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); METAL DETECTORS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITIES (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); CAMPUS SECURITY (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LOTTERIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (70%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH; FERNANDEZ, JOSEPH A (CHANCELLOR); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) ; WEPRIN, SAUL (SPEAKER) JOSEPH FERNANDEZ (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



102 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Public Likes Tax Cut but Not Motive

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

 BODY:
The American public overwhelmingly supports the kind of middle- class tax cut Democrats in Congress propose, but does not give the Democrats much credit for the idea, the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll shows.
Sixty percent of the public said the Democrats proposed the cut more because they felt it would win them votes than because they thought it would help the economy. That skepticism is all the more striking because 56 percent of the public said they thought the economy would benefit from a cut like the Democrats' $400 credit for working couples passed by the House last week. 
 President Bush's advocacy of cuts in taxes on capital gains was even less well regarded substantively, as only 44 percent of the public favored that tax cut, compared with the 68 percent for a middle-class cut. His motives, too, were seen as deeply political, not economic.
The issue of a middle-class tax cut will come up again in the Senate Finance Committee on Tuesday, when Senator Lloyd Bentsen is expected to ask the committee to approve a maximum income tax rate of 36 percent to pay for his version of the cuts. [Page D7.]
The poll findings can offer ammunition to both sides in the current debate on tax legislation. But another set of tax answers run so far against the political tide in Washington that they are likely to be brushed aside, regardless of party.
The telephone poll found that while the public likes tax cuts just fine, it also says it is prepared for tax increases -- if they have a compelling rationale.
Fifty-four percent of the public said they would be willing to pay $1,000 more a year in Federal taxes for national health insurance if that meant they would have no other health care costs.
And even more, 64 percent, said they would be willing to pay a nickel more a gallon in Federal gasoline taxes if the money went for construction and repair of roads and bridges. Such an idea, strongly pushed by House Speaker Thomas S. Foley, died last summer without coming to a vote in the full House because members feared public outcry. Mr. Bush had threatened to veto any highway bill with a tax increase.
A middle-class tax cut, like the one Democrats have been urging for months and passed in the House last week as two years of credits of up to $400 for working couples, was favored by 68 percent of the public and opposed by 27 percent. That difference was well outside the poll's margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
 
Closer on Capital Gains
 The results on a capital gains tax were closer, with 44 percent saying they favored that sort of reduction -- stressed by Mr. Bush but present in various forms in Democratic bills, too -- and 41 percent saying they opposed it.
The poll's respondents were asked, in each case, if they thought the tax reduction would help them personally, and if they thought it would help the economy.
For the $400 per couple tax cut, 56 percent said it would help the economy, and 53 percent said it would help them personally.
On capital gains, 47 percent said that reduction would help the economy, and just 31 percent said it would help them personally.
On both issues, but more strongly in the case of capital gains, people were more likely to say they favored a particular tax reduction if they said it would help the nation than if they said it would help them personally.
Support for a middle-class tax cut was rather level across most population groups, although it was lower among blacks than whites and among those with family incomes of $15,000 or less than among all those with higher incomes.
 
Several Variations
 But there were much greater variations on the capital gains issue. Approval rose steadily with income, from 30 percent in the $15,000 and under group to 59 percent among those with family incomes of $50,000 or more.
Republicans favored it far more than Democrats did. Men liked it better than did women. And whites liked it more than blacks did.
The questions about motives demonstrated once again the level of skepticism or outright disbelief politicians face in 1992.
Among Democrats generally, only 35 percent said their party's lawmakers favored a tax cut more because they thought it would help the economy than because they thought it would get votes. Fifty-one percent said votes were paramount.
Mr. Bush did not make a much stronger impression on his fellow partisans. Among Republicans as a whole, 41 percent said he backed a tax cut on capital gains mainly to get votes, while 40 percent said he did it to help the economy.
When respondents who are registered to vote were asked, "Who's more likely to have a tax plan that is fair to people like you, George Bush or a Democratic President?" 53 percent picked the Democrats and 26 percent said Mr. Bush would. One element of that issue that may disturb the White House is that even among Republicans, 24 percent said the Democrats would come up with a fairer plan; only 7 percent of Democrats said Mr. Bush would be fairer. Independents preferred the Democrat solidly.

GRAPHIC: Table: "New York Times/CBS News Poll: Americans' Views on Taxes"

 	 	 	 	 	 	 				 	 	 	 	Party affiliation		 	 	 	Income	 	 	 	 	 	Total		Dem	Ind	Rep	Under	Over						$30,000	$30,000	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	Say they favor or oppose a cut	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	in income taxes of $400 a year	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	for middle income families	 	 	 	 	 	68	Favor	65	67	73	67	70	27	Oppose	31	28	24	28	27	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	Say Congressional Democrats'	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	proposal of tax cuts for the	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	middle class is...	 	 	 	 	 	25	more to help economy	35	22	19	26	24	60	more to help get votes	51	64	69	60	63	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	Say they favor or oppose a	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	cut in capital gains taxes	 	 	 	 	 	44	Favor	35	45	57	41	55	41	Oppose	50	43	33	47	36	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	Say Bush's proposed capital	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	gains tax cut is...	 	 	 	 	 	26	more to help economy	15	25	40	21	31	61	more to help get votes	77	64	41	66	58	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	Say they are willing to pay	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	$1,000 a year in federal taxes	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	for national health insurance	 	 	 	 	 	54	Willing	57	55	51	51	59	38	Not willing	36	38	42	41	36	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	Say they are willing to pay	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	a nickel more in gasoline taxes	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	to speed construction and	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	repair of roads and bridges	 	 	 	 	 	64	Willing	69	63	63	62	68	33	Not willing	29	35	35	35	31	 Based on telephone interviews with 1,673 adults nationwide conducted Feb. 26- March 1. (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL CBS CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); PUBLIC OPINION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INCOME TAX ; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; HEALTH INSURANCE; EXCISE TAXES TAX LAW (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); VETO (78%); APPROVALS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (70%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (63%); GASOLINE (61%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (61%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (61%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (61%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (61%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



103 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Offering Looms For Wellcome

BYLINE: By Steven Prokesch

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
THE charitable foundation that owns 74 percent of Wellcome P.L.C., the British drug company, said yesterday that it planned to lower its stake to as little as 25 percent through an international offering that could raise more than $7.9 billion.
Wellcome's stock price fell in reaction, closing in London at 10.66 ($18.72), down 60 pence ($1.05). But analysts predicted that the shares would recover and resume their climb. "In the long term, the offering is good news," said Jacquelyne Cantle of Smith New Court Securities Ltd. 
 Analysts have been bullish about the stock. They cite the aggressiveness Wellcome has gained from new leaders in the last couple of years and strong prospects for anti-viral drugs like Zovirax, for diseases caused by herpes viruses, and Retrovir, the brand name for AZT, the anti-AIDS drug.
Analysts said yesterday that the offering, which is reportedly planned for July, would increase liquidity in the stock and thereby entice institutional investors to buy it. The stock will also gain from the foundation's plans to sell a large portion of its shares in the United States, they added.
American depository receipts now account for 1.6 percent of Wellcome's shares. Analysts speculate that after the offering, the portion of shares owned in the United States will rise, to at least 10 to 20 percent of the total, and that the A.D.R.'s will be traded on a major exchange.
Some analysts say the stock price has been helped in the past by the scarcity of the shares. But the greater availability will be offset by the increased liquidity and the prices that American investors will be willing to pay, said Duncan Moore of Morgan Stanley & Company.
He and Eile Gibson, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, recommend that investors keep buying the shares. Ms. Cantle has a short-term hold on them, because she says drug stocks may suffer as investors shift money to sectors that will benefit from economic recovery in the United States and Britain. But she recommends buying Wellcome for the long term.
Wellcome shares account for 95 percent of the value of the income-producing assets of the Wellcome Trust, the foundation to support medical research created by one company co-founder. The trust cited a desire to diversify its portfolio and increase its income.
Wellcome's stock has had a low yield, of less than 2 percent. And the trust appears to want to capitalize on the surge in the stock, which before yesterday's drop was trading at more than 2.5 times the price at the beginning of 1991. Last year, Wellcome was the best-performing stock on The Financial Times/Stock Exchange index of 100 leading British stocks.
Analysts attributed the drop in the stock price yesterday to investor worries that the trust would need to sell at a discount to dispose of such a big block. Analysts do not expect a recovery until the trust discloses the offering price and the amount it intends to sell. The trust said yesterday only that it would lower its stake to less than 50 percent but would retain "a significant long-term holding of at least 25 percent."
Could Wellcome become vulnerable to a takeover? Judging from the price drop, investors do not think so. The trust would remain a big shareholder, which would help Wellcome defend itself against an unwanted bid, analysts said. They also noted that few companies could afford to pay the more than $20 billion that Wellcome could command.
In the year that ended on Aug. 31, Wellcome's pretax earnings rose 28 percent, to 402.9 million ($676.9 million), on sales of 1.61 billion. North America accounted for 44 percent of sales. The company said that earnings in the six months that ended on Saturday rose at least 30 percent.
Analysts expect Wellcome's earnings to rise over the next three years at an annual rate of about 20 percent. They have been impressed by the ability of the new leaders to divest the company of peripheral businesses, reduce costs and expand marketing alone or with other companies.
"Zovirax is clearly Wellcome's most important drug in terms of growth prospects over the next few years," said Paul Krikler, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Company. Analysts expect sales of Zovirax, which is used to treat genital herpes, shingles and chicken pox, to reach $1 billion this fiscal year. The Food and Drug Administration just approved it as a treatment for chicken pox.
Retrovir, the anti-AIDS drug, has received a lot of attention -- partly because of complaints that it was priced too high. But it had sales of only 177 million in the last fiscal year. Predicting that it will be used more -- both in conjunction with other anti-AIDS drugs and on its own to delay the onset of AIDS -- analysts expect sales to grow 15 to 20 percent annually for at least three years.
New drugs that analysts say may become important earnings contributors include an anti-depressant and treatments for epilepsy and respiratory distress syndrome in premature infants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (93%); GSK (LSE) (93%); BIOC (EGX) (93%); MS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: WELLCOME PLC; WELLCOME FOUNDATION LTD GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (93%); MORGAN STANLEY (83%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (65%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (60%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WELLCOME PLC; WELLCOME FOUNDATION LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES ANTIVIRALS (92%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (77%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (75%); VIRUSES (74%); AIDS & HIV (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); HERPES INFECTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN ANDREW SMITH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



104 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending Rose By a Slight 0.2% in January

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 2

 BODY:
The Government reported today that consumer spending rose two-tenths of 1 percent in January, a slight gain, but one that analysts noted was the third straight increase against falling incomes and reports of waning confidence in the economy.
"At least they're not as pessimistic in their actions as they are in sentiment," Daryl Delano, an economist at Cahners Economics in Newton, Mass., said of consumers. A survey recently released by the Conference Board, a business-sponsored research organization, found that consumer confidence fell in January after leveling off a month earlier. 
 The Commerce Department said personal consumption totaled $3.97 trillion at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, up from $3.96 trillion in December. Consumption, which had fallen two-tenths of 1 percent in October, rose five-tenths of 1 percent in November and December.
 
Personal Income Slips
 "Consumers were not leading the economy out of the recession, but they were not dragging it into one either," said David Berson, an economist with the Federal National Mortgage Association. Consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of the nation's economy and thus is vital to a continued economic recovery.
Spending was held in check by a tenth of 1 percent drop in personal incomes to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $4.928 trillion, down from $4.931 trillion in December.
A cost-of-living adjustment in some Federal payment programs, an increase in unemployment insurance payments and a raise for Federal employees was offset by a drop in farm subsidies and an increase in withholding for Social Security.
The difference between spending and incomes contributed to a 5.3 percent savings rate in January, down from 5.5 percent in December but still above the 4.9 percent in November.
A nine-tenths of 1 percent decline in purchases of usually long-lasting and expensive durable goods helped hold down consumption.
"Automobile sales fell in January, but have already demonstrated a pickup in data available so far for February," said Marilyn Schaja, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. Domestic auto makers have so far reported sales gains for the first three weeks in February.
 
Disposable Income Drops
 Disposable income, or income after taxes, also edged down a tenth of 1 percent after jumping 1.1 percent a month earlier. The decline matched a similar drop in November.
Wages and salaries, an important element of the income category, fell $14.6 billion, nearly wiping out a $18.8 billion gain in December.
The income and spending figures were not adjusted for inflation. When adjusted, disposable incomes slipped two-tenths of 1 percent.
Inflation-adjusted consumer spending was up a tenth of 1 percent. Consumption rose three-tenths of 1 percent in November and two-tenths of 1 percent in December.
Spending on durable goods, expensive items that include cars and carpets, fell $4.2 billion for the third straight monthly decline.
Spending on nondurable goods, including food and fuel, was up $4.3 billion for the third straight gain.
Spending on services posted a $6.3 billion gain, down from the $17.9 billion increase a month earlier.

GRAPHIC: Graph/Chart: "Personal Income" tracks total personal income before taxes from August 1990 through January 1992; shows personal income and consumption during January 1992 and percent change from December 1991. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER SPENDING (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); RECESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



105 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends on Strong Note; Gold Prices Are Weaker

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended higher yesterday on surprisingly strong news about the American economy.
Gold prices weakened. At the Republic National Bank of New York, gold fetched $351.30 a troy ounce as of 4 P.M., off $2.20 from Friday. At the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery was quoted at $351.40, off $1.60. 
 Money traders said the dominant event in foreign exchange trading was the the release of the National Association of Purchasing Management's index for February, which rose sharply from a month earlier.
The index, considered a sensitive barometer of the overall economy's direction, was much stronger than the financial markets had anticipated. It suggested the United States economy was climbing out of a prolonged slump, which would make the dollar more valuable.
"The dollar moved up quite briskly on that news," said Carl Forcheski, a foreign exchange trader at Chemical Bank in New York.
In addition, traders who had sold dollars short, or sold borrowed dollars on the hunch the index would show a decline, had to scramble to buy them back to cut losses. That further increased demand for dollars and raised their value even more, in what is known in trading parlance as a short-covering rally.
"The speculators got caught here," said Hillel Waxman, a foreign exchange dealer at the New York office of the Bank Leumi Trust Company.
Mr. Forcheski said some of the dollar's strength eroded late in the day, because the purchasing managers' report was inconclusive and there were other signs that the economy was still languishing. That led some traders who had bet on the dollar's increase to sell the currency and lock in profits.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 129.53 yen, up 0.20 yen from Friday's close. Later in London the dollar fetched 129.65 yen, and in New York the dollar finished at 129.65 yen, up from 129.50 yen late Friday.
The British pound fell in London to $1.7540, from $1.7565 late Friday. In New York, sterling fetched $1.7533, weaker than its $1.7580 value late Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York vs. late Friday: 1.6433 marks, up from 1.6390; 1.4905 Swiss francs, up from 1.4855; 1.1871 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1824; 5.5835 French francs, up from 5.5725, and 1,232.75 Italian lire, up from 1,230.00

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); JAPAN (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (91%); CHEMICAL BANK (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); JAPAN (68%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (91%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BRITISH POUND (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); 

PERSON: CARL FORCHESKI (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



106 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Construction Outlays Are Up by 1.3%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 2

 BODY:
Driven by residential and government building, construction spending rose 1.3 percent in January, the largest advance in nine months, the Government said today.
"We do have an expansion in residential construction coming on stream here," said Allan Sinai, an economist with the Boston Company Economic Advisers. 
 Despite budgetary restraints, governments have tried to keep capital expenditures going while cutting back on operating expenses, said Daryl Delano, an economist with Cahners Economics in Newton, Mass.
 
Weak Nonresidential Business
 But David Berson, an economist with the Federal National Mortgage Association, said nonresidential construction had continued to fade. "I expect that area to continue to be weak most of the months in 1992," he said.
The Commerce Department said residential, nonresidential and government construction in January totaled $404.1 billion at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, up from $398.9 billion in December.
It was the first increase since construction rose eight-tenths of 1 percent in October and the largest since a similar 1.3 percent gain in April. Spending fell 1.2 percent in November and 1.6 percent in December.
Residential spending jumped 2.6 percent in January, more than erasing a 1 percent decline in December.
Spending on single-family housing increased 1.1 percent, to $107.1 billion, on top of a 1 percent gain a month earlier. This sector has posted gains for 10 straight months.
"It shows that lower mortgage rates have an impact on the housing market," Mr. Berson said.
Thirty-year fixed-rate mortgages ranged between 8.23 percent and 8.68 percent in January, the lowest rates in 18 years, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation said.
Spending on apartments also rose in January, up 6 percent, to $14 billion, wiping out a 5.7 percent loss in December.
But nonresidential spending fell seven-tenths of 1 percent, to $87.9 billion, the ninth consecutive decline. It dropped three-tenths of 1 percent in December. The January decline was led by a 8.6 percent plunge in the value of new office buildings.
Government spending advanced 1 percent, to $109.4 billion, after falling 3.5 percent in December.

GRAPHIC: Graph/Table: "Construction Spending" tracks total construction from August 1990 through January 1992; shows percent change from previous month for November and December 1991 and January 1992. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (82%); FNM (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); BOSTON CO INC (72%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (71%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) CONSTRUCTION (94%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: DAVID BERSON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



107 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Ramada's Gamble in Times Sq.

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
Anyone hoping to succeed in New York's crowded hotel market had better find a way to stand out. The 26-story Ramada Renaissance Hotel that opens today in Times Square offers white-coated butlers on most floors, ready to serve breakfast in bed, secure theater tickets or even unpack guests' suitcases.
"We're betting that by introducing an Asian level of service to North America, we can keep guests coming back," said Allan C. Federer, the hotel's general manager. 
 But the Ramada Renaissance, along Broadway between 47th and 48th Streets, faces long odds. Just to break even it will need 68 percent occupancy at an average room rate of about $220. Few New York hotels are doing that well. And with the economy still weak, nationally and regionally, relief is nowhere in sight.
The average New York room rate fell last year to $136 a night from $141, while the occupancy rate dropped to 67.1 percent from 72.2 percent. Rates tumbled even farther in the midtown area that encompasses Times Square -- to $113 from $118.
"The decline in New York room rates last year was the biggest in more than 40 years," said John A. Fox, the director of PKF Consulting Inc., a New York-based firm specializing in the hotel and real estate industries. "And the decrease in occupany was also the biggest on record."
To make matters worse for the Ramada Renaissance, three other Times Square hotels -- the Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza, the Macklowe and Embassy Suites -- have opened in Times Square just since 1990, adding about 1,800 rooms. Those are in addition to the nearby Novotel, with 474 roooms, a handful of smaller and older hotels, and, just two blocks down Broadway from the Renaissance, the Marriott Marquis, a 50-story, 1,876-room behemoth.
"Marriott owns this particular slice of town," said Mr. Federer, who at 35 years old is already a 16-year veteran of the hotel industry. "They earned it with continuous good management. Our strategy is to be the second hotel in the area."
A lot is riding on that strategy for Ramada International Hotels and Resorts, the Hong Kong-based corporation that is operating the hotel under a long-term lease from Sherwood Equities, the building's developer and owner.
Ramada International's direct investment is only about $12 million, compared with $106 million for Sherwood Equities. But Ramada International's prestige is also at stake. This 305-room luxury hotel, with marble floors, leather chairs and mahagony paneling, is not only the company's first New York property but also the flagship of the growing portfolio of hotels that Ramada International owns, franchises or manages.
With 120 hotels now -- including 15 in the United States under the Ramada Renaissance name -- Ramada International says it will have more than 200 in 40 countries by 1995. That is a fast start for a company that was formed only in 1989, following the sale of Ramada Inc. for $540 million to New World Developments, a large real estate company also based in Hong Kong and owned by Y. T. Cheng.
Ramada International is now entirely separate from the company that owns the Ramada Inns in the United States. After buying Ramada Inc., New World immediately sold the Ramada Inns in the United States to Prime Motor Inns Inc. for an undisclosed price. In 1990, Prime Motor Inns sold them in turn to Hospitality Franchise Systems Inc., a subsidiary of the Blackstone Group, an investment banking firm.
 
Aimed at Frequent Travelers
 The Renaissance hotels are aimed at frequent travelers, especially to international gateway cities. The company has four hotels in Washington and one in Atlanta. In September, it opened a hotel at the Los Angeles International Airport.
In order to become even second banana on Broadway, all Ramada Renaissance rooms offer fax machines, free video movies, cable television, voice mail, two telephone lines, a mini-bar and a safe. Another attraction is the hotel's third-floor restaurant, which boasts a spectacular view of Times Square -- one that Mr. Federer thinks will command $500 a seat on New Year's Eve.
The restaurant windows are just below a new 55-ton Coca-Cola sign, attached to the hotel's facade, to replace earlier Coke signs that had looked down on Broadway from that address for 59 years. The Coca-Cola sign now shares the billing, and hotel wall space, with signs for the Samsung conglomerate of South Korea and Suntory whisky of Japan. By presenting the Chase Manhattan Bank with signed leases for the three electronic signs, Sherwood Equities was able to obtain about $90 million in financing for the hotel.
 
A Corps of Butlers
 The key to the hotel's long-term success, in Ramada International's opinion, is the corps of white-coated butlers.
Joanne R. Agnelli, the director of guest services, attended the Ivor Spencer school for butlers in Washington so she could learn how to refine the staff's skills.
The Ramada Renaissance received 10,000 applications and interviewed 3,000 applicants for its 200 jobs. "I didn't care what jobs they had done before," Ms. Agnelli said of the butlers. "I chose them on personality and attitude. You can teach skills, but attitude is hard to come by."
One lucky applicant was Ana Febres-Cordero, a butler who was previously an administrative assistant at a bank in New York. "I applied for another position at the hotel, but it was taken," said Ms. Febres-Cordero, a native of Ecuador. "But they explained this position to me, about giving guests special treatment, and I liked it because everybody thinks people in New York are rude."
Sergio Bek of Buenos Aires no longer thinks so. He checked in with his wife and 9-month-old daughter about two weeks ago, when the hotel was already taking guests in advance of today's formal opening.
"I think the most beautiful thing you can have when you are in a hotel in a faraway country is a friendly smile and someone to help you with any problem, no matter how small," said Mr. Bek, an entertainment producer and travel agent. "I have never received such attention. The butler idea is a great feature."
That is the reaction Mr. Federer is banking on from guests, the bulk of whom are expected to be individual corporate travelers, with 25 percent of all guests foreign.
The Marriott Marquis, on the other hand, aims for a mix of tourists, conference and convention groups and individual business people. "We deliberately tried for a balance," said Thomas D. Reese, the hotel's general manager, "so that we would not be so vulnerable to economic conditions."
Before the $450 million Marriott Marquis, with its soaring atrium, opened in 1985, some called it the "Marriott Mistake." But it was successful from the start, and it began to boom when the Javits Convention Center opened on the West Side in 1986.
Industry consultants say that even if such competition and the weak economy threaten the Ramada Renaissance's initial success, the long-term prospects for the hotel industry are fairly bright.
"Clearly this is not the best time to be opening a hotel," Mr. Fox of PKF said. "But you can't look at a hotel in a short time frame, and I'm cautiously optimistic about 1992 and beyond."
Hotel managers and industry analysts predict that room rates in New York and nationally will begin to rise next year, and that by 1994, barring a further economic turndown, the industry will be relatively robust.
Around Times Square and the West Side of Manhattan in general, Mr. Reese said, "the only piece of the pie still missing is that the office buildings in the area don't have any tenants," But that, too, is starting to change, he said, "and I would imagine by 1994 or 1995 they will fill up."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Ramada Renaissance Hotel's third-floor restaurant, called 2 Times Square, boasts a spectacular view of Times Square -- one the hotel's general manager believes will command $500 a seat on New Year's Eve. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (D1); The south facade of the Ramada Renaissance is covered by illuminated advertising signs, including a new Coca-Cola sign, the latest in a 59-year history of Coke signs overlooking Broadway from that spot. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (D4)
 
Graphs: "Checking In" tracks room rates and occupancy rates for New York City hotels from 1987 through 1992. (Source: PKF Consulting) (D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RAMADA RENAISSANCE HOTEL (NYC); RAMADA INTERNATIONAL HOTELS & RESORTS (CO); SHERWOOD EQUITIES; MARRIOTT MARQUIS HOTEL (NYC) RAMADA RENAISSANCE HOTEL (94%); RAMADA INTERNATIONAL HOTELS & RESORTS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: RAMADA RENAISSANCE HOTEL (NYC); RAMADA INTERNATIONAL HOTELS & RESORTS (CO); SHERWOOD EQUITIES; MARRIOTT MARQUIS HOTEL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TIMES SQUARE (NYC); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); HONG KONG (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; NYTRAVEL HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); LODGING (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESORTS (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); THEATER (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN; FEDERER, ALLAN C MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



108 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: New Yardstick Urged On U.S.-Japan Rivalry

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
RESPONDING to reports that Japan has surged ahead of the United States as the world's top patron of industrial research, a Democratic Senator has called on the Federal Government to overhaul its way of comparing such investments to gauge Japan's growing scientific might more accurately.
The proposal was made by Senator Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico, chairman of the technology and national security subcommittee of the Congressional Joint Economic Committee. 
 In making the recommendation last week, Senator Bingaman cited a report in The New York Times that a growing number of analysts fault the Federal Government's Japan-watchers, who calculate that the United States still leads in research spending by business while acknowledging that America's edge is fast eroding.
The analysts say Japan has in fact expanded its industrial research so rapidly in the last decade that it now rivals the United States, and perhaps has pulled ahead. If so, Japan has a powerful weapon in the trade wars of the 1990's and beyond as it uses research discoveries to launch new goods and services.
The dispute centers on foreign exchange rates, which can swing wildly and are often adjusted in international comparisons to try to better measure the real value of research investments. Critics contend that the Government's method, used by the National Science Foundation, makes the dollar too strong and the Japanese yen too weak. Calculated at current exchange rates, they note, Japanese investments in industrial research far exceed those of the United States.
Senator Bingaman wrote the foundation's director, Walter Massey, on Feb. 25 to suggest that an overhaul of the Government's method be accelerated.
"While the trends are the same no matter which yardstick one uses, I think it is important that some consensus be reached on the yardstick to use," he wrote. "Measuring ourselves properly vis-a-vis the other technological and industrial superpower has important policy implications."
Cheryl Dybas, a foundation spokeswoman, said yesterday that Mr. Massey had not yet received Senator Bingaman's letter and would have no response until he did.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RESEARCH SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TRENDS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); TRADE DISPUTES (67%); 

PERSON: BINGHAM, JEFF (SEN) JEFF BINGAMAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



109 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Science Desk; The Environment Page

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: Talks Seek to Prevent Huge Loss of Species

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS

 BODY:
AS the world approaches the day of decision on a treaty to deal with the threat of global warming, separate negotiations on another overarching environmental question, maintaining biological diversity, are moving toward their own denouement.
The object of these less prominent but nevertheless high-stakes talks is to forge a binding agreement among the world's nations to slow or halt a steady loss of plant, animal and microbial species that many biologists fear will result in a mass extinction of epic proportions in mere decades. 
 The basic question involves actions that nations should be required to take in conserving species, habitats and ecosystems. Despite a patchwork of international agreements like the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, there is no legally binding treaty that directly and comprehensively addresses the overall problem of preserving biological diversity.
Some countries have developed national action plans to identify, conserve and manage biological resources. But most, including many tropical countries that are richest in species, have not. These are precisely the main countries where economic and development pressures are destroying habitats at a rate that alarms many scientists and conservation biologists.
Dr. Edward O. Wilson of Harvard University, an expert on the subject, has calculated that 50,000 species a year are being doomed to eventual extinction because of deforestation in the tropics. At that rate, says Dr. Wilson, a quarter or more of all species on earth could be exterminated within 50 years. While a few biologists say that the problem has been overstated, few if any argue with the idea that a problem exists, and most say it is serious. The direst scenarios predict an eventual wave of extinctions comparable to the one 65 million years ago in which the dinosaurs disappeared. Scientists say this could weaken the ecological webs that support human life.
Like the talks on global warming, whose penultimate session ended last week in New York on a modest note of hope, the talks on preserving biological diversity are throwing a spotlight on basic differences between the rich nations of the industrialized world and the struggling countries of the developing world.
In both cases, the poverty-plagued countries of the South, as they are collectively characterized, insist that the affluent countries of the North foot the bill for the developing nations' part in dealing with the problem. The two sets of treaty talks are tied together on this question, in that the negotiators on biodiversity are hoping that their counterparts on global warming can come up with a solution that might be emulated.
Each group of negotiators is charged by the United Nations with producing a legally binding treaty to be signed at an "Earth Summit" in Rio de Janeiro in early June. The final round of climate negotiations is to take place at United Nations headquarters in New York from April 30 through May 8. Three days later, the last round of biodiversity talks convenes in Nairobi, Kenya.
Both groups of negotiators are hoping that the outlines of a financial solution will emerge this month as yet a third group meets at the United Nations to work out a nonbinding global action agenda, covering a wide range of related environmental and development issues, for the Rio conference. A crucial issue on the agenda is that of North-South financial arrangements. This third group convened yesterday.
There are other difficult issues in both the climate talks and the talks on biodiversity. Equally critical to prospects for a climate treaty is an agreement between the United States and the European Community on how to limit carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases emitted as a result of human activity. The Europeans insist that carbon dioxide emissions be stabilized at 1990 levels by the year 2000. The Americans reject the notion of targets and timetables. Many developing countries say they will not sign a treaty unless the industrialized countries make specific commitments on reducing emissions.
On the central purpose of the biodiversity talks, there is "a high likelihood we can come to an agreement" on national commitments to protect species, habitats and ecosystems, said J. D. Buffington of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, chief American representative in the group of negotiators dealing with the issue.
"We've established in principle the importance of conservation activities within a country, including setting aside reserves and managing those areas," he said after the latest negotiating session ended in mid-February. The negotiators have agreed that such programs should be the primary line of defense, with seed banks, gene banks and zoos secondary.
If an agreement along these lines is achieved, it would for the first time bind governments together in a mutual obligation to conserve species. "It would set up machinery that would assure that biodiversity issues remain on the table, that they're not just a flash in the pan," said Jeffrey A. McNeeley, the chief conservation officer of the World Conservation Union, a global association of private and governmental organizations.
One remaining obstacle has to do with whether a specific list of species, habitats and ecosystems to be protected should be drawn up to guide the international effort. Conservation organizations favor the list as being essential to the setting of international priorities, but some countries fear it would trespass on their ability to set their own priorities.
"This could be addressed if the list were established by nominations from countries," said Dr. Walter V. Reid, a conservation expert at the World Resources Institute, an environmental organization based in Washington. "There's plenty of room for negotiation."
Issues other than the central question of conservation measures are posing greater difficulty. One of these involves the ownership of genetic materials. Historically, seeds, germ plasm and specimens of individual species have been considered to be in the public domain. Anyone who found them could exploit them without compensating the country of origin. Now developing countries are seeking to claim control over these resources and to share in their economic benefits.
Another thorny question involves the control of genetically altered organisms. Some European countries want them strictly regulated. The United States rejects the notion that such organisms are inherently dangerous, any more than natural organisms are dangerous just because they are natural. Last week the White House announced new ground rules for Federal regulation that would focus on the actual characteristics of an individual organism rather than on the fact that it has been genetically altered. In the talks, the United States argues that the question is peripheral to a treaty whose primary purpose is conservation of natural species.
Argument also attends the issue of the terms on which the industrialized countries should transfer conservation technology and know-how to developing countries. But the biggest point of contention is the one between North and South over money.
"We have made a certain amount of progress on everything except funding," said Eleanor Savage, a State Department official who heads the United States delegation at the talks.
To many developing countries, conservation is clearly secondary to the day-to-day struggle to support their surging populations. "Seeing it from where you are or I am, the environment might look very important," said Fiona McConnell, the head of the British delegation. "But if your concern is survival, you might need some persuading."
Money is the persuader, and some developing countries are proposing that the North not only bear the costs of putting new conservation measures into effect but also compensate the South for foregoing the economic benefits of cutting down forests to expand commercial agriculture or timbering, for example. But other developing countries believe that if the forests are preserved and properly exploited for medicine and renewable products, they are worth more than if they are cut down.
The United States opened a possible wedge into the financial issue last week when it reversed position and pledged unilaterally to contribute $75 million to developing countries' costs of coping with global warming.
Of that sum, $50 million would be paid into the Global Environmental Facility, a pilot program established last year by the World Bank, the United Nations Environment Program and the United Nations Development program to channel environmental money from North to South. Developing countries welcomed the reversal with reservations. Many fear that the Global Environment Facility, which is controlled by developed countries, will shut them out of a say in administering the funds.
At this point, many would agree with Ms. McConnell of Britain, who says she is "cautiously optimistic" that a biodiversity treaty can be signed.
"If the funding article is resolved," said Dr. Reid of the World Resources Institute, "it will fall into place very quickly."

GRAPHIC: Diagram: "An Approach to Setting Preservation Priorities"
 
Nearly 100 North and South American scientists have pooled research in botany, ecology, mammology, entomology and other fields to determine where threats exist to biodiversity in the Amazon River basin and to define which places most urgently need conservation action. The data and assigned priorities are being assembled into a map; part of a preliminary version is shown here. Shaded areas show conservation targets.
 
(Source: Conservation International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); KENYA (64%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (65%); NAIROBI, KENYA (64%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); KENYA (64%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (65%); NAIROBI, KENYA (64%); 

SUBJECT: FLOWERS AND PLANTS; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; ANIMALS; TREATIES; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES BIOLOGY (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (90%); BIODIVERSITY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); BOTANY (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); SMUGGLING (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); DEFORESTATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K EDWARD O WILSON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



110 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2082 words

HEADLINE: Epidemic at the Computer: Hand and Arm Injuries

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
WORK-RELATED injuries, long the plague of those who do heavy manual labor, have become a scourge among white-collar workers, too. Experts say hundreds of thousands of office workers are being disabled each year in an epidemic of motion-related damage to the hands and arms that is costing the nation many billions of dollars annually.
The problem is expected to worsen in the current recession as businesses demand greater output from fewer employees and workers ignore symptoms for fear of losing their jobs. 
 Over the last decade disorders caused by movements repeated many thousands of times a day, long a plague on assembly lines and in processing plants, have invaded the once low-risk environment of the office worker along with the computer. Computer operators spend many hours in the same position doing the same task without breaks or variation, giving no time for stressed tissues to recover. Over time, this behavior can induce crippling changes in the sensitive tissues of the wrist and hand.
High rates of injury have been reported among data entry workers, telephone operators and newspaper reporters and editors who work for many hours a day typing on a computer keyboard. At Newsday, the Long Island newspaper, for example, 40 percent of the writers and editors have reported often disabling symptoms of the hand and wrist that researchers say have been caused or made worse by excessive work on computers. Similar problems have occurred among newsroom workers at The Los Angeles Times, The Financial Times of London, The New York Times and Reuters, the news agency.
People with the disorders, which can sometimes be permanent, can find themselves unemployable or forced to change careers. Favorite sports activities, housework, carrying groceries, or even holding a coffee cup may become difficult or impossibly painful.
The disorders have many names -- repetitive stress or repetitive motion injuries, cumulative trauma disorders, of which carpal tunnel syndrome is one, and most recently, work-related musculoskeletal disorders, the designation of the World Health Organization. But it all boils down to damage caused principally to tissues within the hand and arm by seemingly innocent actions that are repeated perhaps thousands of times each work day, like typing on a computer, cutting meat or poultry or etching glass. Some experts call it an overuse syndrome, the biological equivalent of metal fatigue.
"States report that 30 to 40 percent of workman's compensation claims now result from musculoskeletal disorders," said Dr. Roger Stephens, director of the Office of Ergonomics at the Occupational Safety and Health Administration in Washington. He predicted that without dramatic changes in equipment design and work habits, these problems would soon account for half of every dollar spent on such claims.
 
Fast-Growing, Expensive Problem
 While injuries to the back remain the nation's most costly job-related hazard, damage to the wrist and hands is now the fastest growing category of worker's compensation claims. The American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons estimated in 1984 that the problem cost the nation more than $27 billion a year in lost wages and medical care, an amount that could well have doubled by now since there has been more than a doubling in reported cases.
Dr. Marvin J. Dainoff, a psychologist who is the director of the Center for Ergonomic Research at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, has called repetitive stress injury the "occupational disease of the 90's" similar to the asbestos crisis of the 1980's. New companies have been formed to help workers cope. There are also several hand clinics springing up in hospitals around the country that try to rehabilitate injured workers.
At one, the Miller Health Care Institute at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center in New York, 53 white-collar workers with severe injuries to their wrists and hands are being treated with rest, exercises to strengthen, stretch and relax structures in the arms and hands, and splints worn at night to keep the wrists straight. They were videotaped while working and taught new techniques to reduce the stress on their hands and wrists. And their work stations were adjusted to suit their individual needs.
"Those with problems that are caught early can expect to recover in a few months," said Dr. Emil Pascarelli, director of ambulatory care at the hospital. "But workers with severe injuries can take a year or more to get better."
In some parts of the country, workers diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome are often treated with surgery to reduce pressure on the nerve that is compressed by swollen or enlarged tissue passing through the wrist. While some surgeons say the procedure is remarkably helpful to 60 to 80 percent of patients, other experts say it is abused by doctors who do not try more conservative remedies first. Hand surgeons now perform an estimated 100,000 operations a year to cure carpal tunnel syndrome.
 
Origins Are Ancient
 The problem of work-related musculoskeletal disorders is not new. In 1717 the father of occupational medicine, an Italian doctor named Bernardino Ramazinni, first described cumulative microtrauma as a main cause of occupational disease.
But repetitive motion disorders received only a flicker of expert attention until they began striking white-collar workers and especially newspaper reporters, who had been all but immune to the job-related injuries that other laborers have endured for centuries. Some of the rise in cases is widely attributed to increased recognition of the problem and a new willingness to report it.
Dr. Laura Punnett, an ergonomist and epidemiologist at the University of Massachusetts at Lowell, said "historically there's been lots of underreporting" of these disorders. As she explained, "Many workers did not recognize the problem as being job-related; others who did worried about losing their jobs if they reported their injuries."
The Occupational Safety and Health Administration is only beginning to formulate regulations to curb these disorders, which continue to plague huge numbers of workers who process meat, poultry and fish and operate machinery, as well as those who use computers.
Dr. Barbara Silverstein, an epidemiologist with the Department of Labor and Industries in Washington State, noted that the United States is a Johnny-come-lately in trying to curb problems caused by repetitive motion in the workplace. In Japan, she said, a longstanding national commission has limited the time workers can spend at keyboards and set mandatory rest periods. The result, she said, has been fewer repetitive stress injuries among keyboard operators in Japan.
 
Best Workers Suffer Most
 A common experience of workers in America who report hand and wrist injuries to their employers is to find themselves suspected of malingering. Employers' doubts are bolstered by the fact that victims of repetitive stress injury take longer to recover and are less likely to return to work if they have filed worker's compensation claims, according to a study of 28,000 workers conducted by Dr. Gary Franklin, a neurologist who serves as medical director for Washington State's Department of Labor and Industries.
Dr. Franklin also noted that the disabilities suffered by many workers were "out of proportion" to measurable abnormalities in their wrists, a widely acknowledged finding that has prompted Dr. Nortin M. Hadler, a rheumatologist at the University of North Carolina, to dispute whether the problem is real. Dr. Hadler maintains that musculoskeletal activity that is "reasonable, comfortable and customary and which can be repeated without undue distress," such as typing on a computer, is unlikely to result in tissue damage.
Others, like Dr. Silverstein, report that although dissatisfied workers are prone to exaggerate their injuries or discomforts, she found in studying workers with problems at Newsday that the most devoted and talented reporters typically suffered the most.
"These are high-production people who don't listen to their bodies," Dr. Silverstein said. "They don't stop working when they start hurting. The same with musicians. It is the high-performance people who are at highest risk of musculoskeletal disorders. And one could hardly accuse musicians of seeking to get paid without working, since they don't."
In a seven-industry study of factory workers, she also found no differences in overall job satisfaction and in views about work in general among employees afflicted with hand-wrist disorders and those who were not.
Still, she and Dr. Franklin agreed that psychological and social factors can make work-related muscular stress worse by increasing muscular tension. One complicating factor is being unable to modify the work schedule and pace of work to an individual's need. Another is receiving too little support from one's supervisor. A third is having an uncomfortable work environment.
Among the physical factors Dr. Dainoff lists as raising a worker's risk of hand-wrist disorders are these:
*High rates of repetition of the same action. A computer operator who types 60 words a minute can make 18,000 keystrokes in an hour.
*Awkward or unnatural posture while working. The ideal position of the wrist is flat and straight, which positions the hand level with the arm and extended in a straight line from it. Those who work with hands bent up, down or to the side risk damage to the tissues in the wrist.
*Use of excessive force while working. In Dr. Silverstein's factory study, workers who had to use high force and a high rate of repetition had 29 times the rate of hand-wrist disorders as workers using low force and a low rate of repetition.
*Lack of adequate rest periods or recovery time. Experts estimate that hands should be relieved of repetitive motion for at least 15 minutes every 2 hours to reduce the risk of injury. "Try telling that to a reporter writing against a deadline," Dr. Silverstein remarked.
People who work on computers, which do not require much force to operate, may nonetheless fall victim to repetitive stress injuries. Dr. Dainoff explained that in many computer-reliant offices like newsrooms, almost every activity is done with the keyboard, including writing, editing, taking notes, searching for information and sending messages. In addition, there is no break to change paper or push a carriage return and no limit imposed by the machine on how fast one can type.
Some computer-based jobs are "the sweatshops of the 90's," said Dr. John Kella, a musician and biomechanic who directs a rehabilitation and retraining program for injured workers at the Miller Institute in New York. He pointed out that computer keyboards are unforgiving and many operators press the keys too hard, causing an almost imperceptible kickback as the fingertips hit the keyboard's rock-hard bottom.
 
Injuries Are Real
 His colleague, Dr. Pascarelli, likened it to dancers performing day after day on a concrete floor. "Eventually, they are going to get injured," he said.
The injuries that he treats are often not "classical" syndromes with readily identifiable pathological changes in structures of the hands and wrists. Some, perhaps a quarter of those complaining of symptoms, have clear cases of carpal tunnel syndrome. Some have tendinitis, an inflammation of the tendon that passes through the wrist, and others have tenosynovitis, an inflammation of the sheath around the tendon. But many fit no recognized classification.
Dr. Lawrence Fine, an occupational medicine specialist for the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health in Cincinnati, said: "Yet these people are in a lot of pain and are forced to take time off from work. It's hard for me as a physician to say it's all in people's heads, especially when the frequency and severity of the disorders abates when the risk factors are reduced."
Even when a rational remedy is applied, the workplace setting can sometimes cause it to backfire. Dr. Silverstein gave on-the-job exercises to workers in a dental floss manufacturing plant. A year into the program she found no improvement in the rate of repetitive stress injuries because the workers, forced to meet production quotas, had worked harder to make up for the time lost during their exercise sessions.
Tomorrow in the Personal Health column: Early recognition, treatment and prevention of computer-related injuries.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Emil Pascarelli, director of ambulatory care at Miller Health Care Institute at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center in Manhattan, teaching keyboard techniques to Kathy Giaimo, who has wrist injuries. Dr. John Kella recorded the session. Dr. Pascarelli says that injuries caught early can be cured in a few months. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) (pg. C10)
 
Diagram: "Working Your Way to Pain"
 
Repetitive motion injuries may occur when the same movement is done over and over for a long time. One of the most common is carpal tunnel syndrome. Tendons become inflamed and swollen, compressing a key nerve that also runs through the narrow carpal tunnel. The result is pain, numbness and tingling in the first three fingers and the base of the thumb.
 
Finger movements are controlled by muscles in the forearm and transferred by long tendons in the top and bottom of the hand.
 
The tendons, nerves and blood vessels all pass through a tunnel in the wrist, made of bone and ligament, called the carpal tunnel.
 
(Sources: Dr. Marvin J. Dainoff; CIBA Collection of Medical Illustrations, CIBA-Geigy.) (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (82%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; HANDS; NEWSPAPERS; TELEPHONES; LABOR WOUNDS & INJURIES (91%); WRITERS (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (89%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (89%); ERGONOMICS (79%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (79%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); EMPLOYERS EMPLOYEE LIABILITY COVERAGE (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); JOURNALISM (72%); NEWS REPORTING (71%); POULTRY (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (64%); 

PERSON: BRODY, JANE E DAVID DAVIS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



111 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: GOLF;
Beman's Star Dulled By Equipment Lawsuit

BYLINE: By JAIME DIAZ

 BODY:
Deane Beman's leadership as commissioner of the PGA Tour appears to be under more critical scrutiny by his membership than at any other time in his 18-year tenure.
Several players on the Tour said that 1992 would be a crucial year in determining Beman's future as commissioner, and that his future might hinge on the outcome of a $100 million lawsuit against the Tour by Karsten Manufacturing Corporation, the makers of Ping Eye2 irons with U-shaped grooves, which is scheduled to go to trial on Nov. 3. 
 The company charged in the suit that the Tour's 1990 ban on U-shaped grooves would hurt its business.
 
When Success Is Threatened
 Beman, who could not be reached for comment yesterday, has long been considered one of the most successful commissioners in professional sports. Under his direction, purses have increased from $8.2 million in 1974 to more than $84 million on the PGA Tour, the Senior Tour and the Ben Hogan Tour.
But this year, the Tour is facing several problems that could hurt its continued prosperity, including the recession, a recent ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that could heavily tax corporations that sponsor events, and an investigation of the Tour's business practices by the Federal Trade Commission.
The most worrisome issue for the players, and the one for which they feel Beman is most directly responsible, is the lawsuit. At this week's Doral Ryder Open in Miami, Beman will address that and other issues at the Tour's quarterly meetings with sponsors, players and its policy board.
"I don't think there is a lynch mob after Deane's job," said one Tour veteran who asked not to be identified, "but we definitely have some big problems, and Deane is going to be judged by how they come out." So much is at stake that the cover article in the April issue of Golf Digest asks the question "Can Beman Survive?"
Because the suit deals with antitrust issues, the Tour, if defeated, could have to pay treble damages and Karsten's legal costs, already estimated at $12 million. According to Golf Digest, the total damages could run as high as $160 million.
 
Pension Questions
 In the last several months, some players have been alarmed by a videotape of a deposition Beman gave under questioning by a Karsten attorney, Leonard Decof. In it, Beman admitted that the players' pension fund, which contains $18 million, could be tapped to pay damages if the Tour loses the lawsuit.
"That definitely got the attention of the players," said another veteran pro.
The strongest anti-Beman statement was made Tim Simpson, who has played with Ping clubs 10 of his 16 years on the PGA Tour.
"Deane's lost sight of the reality that he works for us," said Simpson, who is scheduled to give a deposition in the lawsuit on Tuesday in Miami. "Deane basically has a total dictatorship, and he just flatly has too much power. He has to be kept in check better than he is. I'm certain the Tour is going to lose the lawsuit, and in my opinion, Deane should be replaced."
 
Grooves: U vs. V
 The origin of the lawsuit was a Tour rule that took effect in 1990, banning the use of U-shaped grooves in tournament competition. One of the criteria for the ban was a 1987 poll that showed 60 percent of Tour players believed that the grooves on shots from short rough in particular gave more spin to the ball and thus provided an undue competitive advantage compared with irons with conventional V-shaped grooves.
The Tour, which had previously always deferred decisions about the legality of equipment to the United States Golf Association, made the ban on the premise that a professional sports organization has the power to make its own rules of competition.
But Karsten Manufacturing, whose Ping Eye2 irons were and remain the most widely used club with U-shaped grooves, won an injunction against the ban in Federal court, and Tour pros are still allowed to use the clubs.
One of the keys to that ruling was the fact that 7 of the 10 members of the Tour's policy board, including four player members, had contracts with equipment manufacturers other than Karsten. They were directed by Beman to abstain from the vote to avoid possible conflicts of interest. But the resulting 3-0 vote has been ruled illegal by the courts.
"Deane's still got my support," said another player, "but in my opinion, we'd be out of this whole thing if he had just allowed the policy board take a normal vote."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (54%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (54%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: KARSTEN MANUFACTURING CORP; PGA TOUR INC KARSTEN MANUFACTURING CORP (72%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: KARSTEN MANUFACTURING CORP; PGA TOUR INC INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (54%); FLORIDA, USA (54%); MIAMI, FL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: GOLF; SUITS AND LITIGATION GOLF (92%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DAMAGES (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (65%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); CORPORATE TAX (51%); 

PERSON: BEMAN, DEANE; DIAZ, JAIME WILLIAM BENJAMIN 'BEN' HOGAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



112 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: Sense, and Sensitivity, About Asians

 BODY:
Asian-Americans suffer from two equally unfair stereotypes. They're considered a "model minority," industrious and resourceful. They're also seen as insular and threatening -- and not quite American. They lose on both counts. The "model minority" myth holds them to an unreasonable standard. The hypercompetitive stereotype exposes them to abuse and bigotry.
That's the basic conclusion of a report released last week by the United States Commission on Civil Rights. The report adds a sane and welcome counterweight to recent oversimplifications, even hysteria, about Asians and the United States. 
 Like other immigrants, Asian-Americans are diverse. Bigotry and resentment undervalue the contributions of those who succeed and underestimate the needs of those who, like many Americans, struggle to succeed. The report urges political leaders to "refrain from 'race-baiting' tactics in upcoming election campaigns." It fails to denounce similar activities by business leaders, but the message applies to them as well.
Simplistic efforts to scapegoat Japan lead to bigotry and violence against Asian-Americans generally. The commission cites the murder in 1982 of a Chinese-American by two white automobile workers in Detroit. Other incidents arise from perceived economic challenges -- including the 1990 boycott by blacks of two grocery stores owned by Korean-Americans in Brooklyn.
The commission asks for sense from politicians and sensitivity from the media, employers, the police, courts and schools. It's a timely message, especially in this political season.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (83%); COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (83%); COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ASIAN-AMERICANS; EDITORIALS; DISCRIMINATION; PUBLIC OPINION ASIAN AMERICANS (94%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BOYCOTTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (51%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



113 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: An Incentive for Saddam Hussein

 BODY:
Saddam Hussein now provokes a new showdown with the United Nations. He refuses to cooperate in destroying Scud missile plants and other weapons facilities covered by the Persian Gulf war cease-fire resolution. The Security Council is right to warn of serious consequences -- read military force -- and set an early deadline for compliance.
But the U.N. also needs to make clear that an end to the 18-month economic embargo depends solely on Iraq complying fully with all relevant Security Council resolutions, not on the removal of Saddam Hussein. His departure would be widely applauded, in and out of Iraq. But while he remains in control, there's no harm in providing him some incentive to comply with U.N. demands. 
 The latest confrontation began last week when Iraq refused to cooperate with a U.N. commission monitoring weapons plant destruction. Iraq's Foreign Minister then sent the Security Council a letter, offering to allow monitoring only if the U.N. linked it to a phased easing of economic sanctions.
Those terms are unacceptable. They amount to bargaining over issues already settled by the war and solemnly agreed to by Iraq. Given Baghdad's long record of duplicity, delay and defiance, it is not entitled to any advance installments of relief before it has delivered on all its pledges -- destruction of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons facilities, elimination of most missiles, intrusive inspections, compensation terms for victims of Iraqi aggression.
Iraq's latest answer may be just one more stall or propaganda ploy. But by responding wisely, the Security Council may be able to break the long impasse. The arrival of a high-level Iraqi delegation in New York next week provides a good opportunity for spelling out what is and is not required to end the embargo.
Sanctions are meant to pressure an outlaw regime. Logically, full compliance with the world community's demands should bring sanctions to an end. That has been the argument for ending sanctions against South Africa once President F. W. de Klerk abolished the main pillars of apartheid. Congress follows the same logic when it votes to link unimpeded trade with China to Beijing's fulfillment of a list of conditions.
The same reasoning applies to Iraq. So far Saddam Hussein has resisted cooperating with the U.N. But if economic and military pressures compel him to cooperate fully, the U.N. should be prepared to lift the sanctions.
President Bush and Prime Minister Major of Britain have pledged to maintain sanctions as long as Saddam Hussein remains in power. But for now, they have no obvious way to push him out. It would be perverse for these veto-wielding powers to discourage the Security Council from telling Baghdad that full compliance is the only path to economic relief, with or without Saddam Hussein.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (88%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (52%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (52%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (88%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (52%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (52%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VETO (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (50%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



114 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: The Willie Horton of 1992

 BODY:
One Willie Horton was too many. In 1988 the Bush campaign broadcast an attack ad about a black murderer to inflame voters crudely and unfairly against Michael Dukakis. Now the Bush campaign is trying to demonize Democrats again, but this time much more ambitiously. To judge by current evidence, the new Willie Horton is New York City.
As before, the President remains mostly above any such sordid politics. He sniped at welfare in his State of the Union address. Now his surrogates, Vice President Dan Quayle and Representative Newt Gingrich, have taken to denouncing and deriding New York in terms so callous that their only readily imaginable purpose is divisive gain. 
 Michael Dukakis was widely faulted for failing to strike back at such smears in the last Presidential campaign. If there's a bright side to this year's version, it is that Gov. Mario Cuomo, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and other officials have already been quick to respond.
 Vice President Quayle launched the first salvos in the campaign in a speech last week before the Economic Club of New York. "The liberal vision of a happy, productive and content welfare state hasn't even worked on 22 square miles of the most valuable real estate in the world," he said.
Representative Gingrich sounded the "welfare state" theme again this weekend while campaigning with President Bush for the Georgia primary. He spoke mockingly, for instance, of New York City's labor agreements with its controversial school custodians.
The unmistakable implication is that New York and other large cities are responsible for their own dire fiscal straits because they are indifferent to rapacious unions and welfare cheats.
What makes such reckless criticism especially galling is that America's big cities, centers of cultural vitality, also serve as the nation's poorhouses, containing a disproportionate share of the dependent population. Messrs. Quayle and Gingrich know, probably better than anyone, how harshly the Government has slashed urban aid.
Medicaid, AIDS, homelessness, foster care and other expenditures related to the poor are soaring. How has Washington responded? In the last 10 years, the Federal Government's share of state and local budgets has decreased by about 8 percent.
President Bush, already rocked by Patrick Buchanan's strong finish in New Hampshire, reaches out tensely for support from conservative Southerners in primaries today and next Tuesday. Blaming the victims is the wrong way, indeed a dishonorable way, to turn right.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; FEDERAL AID (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; URBAN AREAS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); MEDICAID (71%); WELFARE FRAUD (71%); 

PERSON: GINGRICH, NEWT (REPR); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) NEWT GINGRICH (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



115 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The President's Job

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Once again, George Bush is being given the greatest of all political opportunities -- to act like a President of the United States. This time the donor of the gift is Patrick Buchanan.
Consider some of the charges against Mr. Buchanan. He stands accused of being bigoted against blacks, contemptuous of women, derisive of democracy, divisive of America, anti-Semitic, a political jingoist who will march the United States straight into an economic war against the world we do not need and cannot win, a bully who argues by insult and epithet, and a demagogue whose slogans about America First, Second and Third come out of the past and would cripple its future. 
 Quite a list -- even in the above incomplete form. Similar charges have not been made in modern times against any major Presidential candidate. They were not created out of a sudden wave of animosity toward the man. As a matter of fact his television-program partners are forever telling us what a charming fellow he really is, and no politician ever received a more chucklingly gentle free press ride before and during a primary.
Despite the wall of chumminess around Mr. Buchanan, just now beginning to crumble a brick or two, Americans who made the charges believe they are valid and demonstrable on the basis of what he has said and written. Those who accuse Mr. Buchanan do not consider him just one more politician to be yawned at during the campaign and safely forgotten afterward.
After the election, whether Mr. Bush or a Democrat wins, Mr. Buchanan will go right on campaigning from his TV and newspaper platforms, this time backed by a tested political machine. His goal will be first to remold the American conservative movement in his image and then to become either the 1996 Republican candidate or the commander of a new reactionary American party, his very own.
So where is President Bush in all this? If he believes the charges are false he certainly should say so.
But of course, he cannot. The documentation exists in Mr. Buchanan's columns, TV transcripts, magazine articles, books, speeches, and the memos, notes and papers he wrote during his years as a White House propagandist for Presidents Nixon and Reagan. Most of this is already in the Bush campaign computers and from time to time some of it is popped up for inquiring reporters.
But this time it is not good enough to rely on surrogates -- computerized or human.
The one politician who stands to lose most if Mr. Buchanan increases in conservative or Republican importance is the chief surrogate himself, Vice President Quayle. He is indeed a lot more sophisticated and able than he is thought to be, as any private and open-minded conversation with him would show.
But the Vice President has not yet shown the gumption to mention such things as bigotry in his wrist-tapping of Mr. Buchanan. Maybe that is news. If that is as candid and direct as Mr. Quayle wants to be seen, it can only mean that he has given up thoughts of being President.
Anyway, it is the President's job, not a surrogate's. It is Mr. Bush's job to tell Americans of his party, and the whole country, that the reason to vote against Mr. Buchanan is because what he stands for is not what America stands for or ever should.
That is the root case against Mr. Buchanan -- the whole man and his beliefs, not any isolated position. The President and his men understand that. Presumably Mr. Bush would agree that no man who repeatedly and deliberately offends so many Americans in the political pursuit of other Americans, no man who refuses to back off these offenses, no man who sneers at the importance of democracy -- summed up, no Patrick Buchanan -- should be President of the United States, speak for a major political party or be considered worthy of a vote, protest or otherwise.
I know that his aides tell Mr. Bush that criticizing a Republican opponent would not be "Presidential."
But Mr. Buchanan is not only the opponent of Mr. Bush but of the Republican Party, and of all Americans opposed in stomach and heart to divisiveness, bigotry and calumny in political life.
So Mr. Buchanan is everybody's business. The opportunity to say so is before Mr. Bush now, and in duty and importance it is a truly Presidential test.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); TRANSCRIPTS (72%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



116 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Blame as Well as Credit for Reaganomics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Milton Friedman credits the Reagan Administration's economic policies with the expansion of the 1980's in "Oovood Economics" (Op-Ed, Feb. 2), but he neglects some consequences of those policies. Mr. Friedman's "four planks" of Reaganomics -- lower tax rates, restraint in Government spending, deregulation and a strict monetary policy -- must bear a responsibility for the recession. 
 The results of Reaganomics contradict Mr. Friedman's claim that "Reducing revenue available to Congress is the only effective way to limit spending." The Reagan tax cuts reduced Government revenue, yet Government spending grew. The national debt tripled from $1 trillion to $3 trillion in the eight Reagan years.
Mr. Friedman acknowledges that Government spending rose as a fraction of income until 1985, but then dismisses this because Government spending as a fraction of income fell slightly after 1985. This is analogous to paying $10,000 for a car with a $1,000 rebate, and then viewing it as if you had been given a car and $1,000, ignoring the $9,000 you paid. What Mr. Friedman muddles is that Government spending as a fraction of income rose under Ronald Reagan.
If the deregulation of the Reagan years is a success, the deregulation must also take responsibility for the $500 billion taxpayer bailout of failed saving and loans institutions, and for the sagging United States airline industry, in which half the major carriers are out of business or in bankruptcy courts. Americans are realizing that in many cases there were legitimate reasons for regulation.
When Mr. Friedman states "this recession is relatively mild, despite the contrary public perception," one has to question his perspective. Mr. Friedman is probably surviving the recession nicely, with a secure job and comfortable life style. Millions of unemployed Americans would beg to differ about the severity of the recession. These Americans, whom Mr. Friedman feels safe in neglecting, will decide the future course of the country in the November election.
Mr. Friedman has made valuable contributions to economic thought. However, if he gives Reaganomics credit for the expansion of the 80's and ignores the huge deficits that fueled the expansion, he is letting his political inclinations interfere with the science he has spent his life studying. If we give Reaganomics credit for the boom of the 80's, we also must acknowledge that those policies laid the groundwork for this recession and weakened our economic base.
It is a shame when an economist as gifted as Mr. Friedman mixes his legitimate study of economics with his personal social and political beliefs, for it only detracts from his true contributions.
 
TOM RUBEY
Centerville, Ohio, Feb. 18, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY DEREGULATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); AIRLINES (64%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (62%); MONETARY POLICY (56%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



117 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Bentsen to Seek Top Tax Rate of 36%

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 2

 BODY:
Senator Lloyd Bentsen, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, will ask the committee on Tuesday to approve a maximum income tax rate of 36 percent to pay the $31 billion cost of a $300-per-child tax credit that he is proposing, senior Democratic Senate aides said tonight.
The rate is higher than the 35 percent voted last week by the House, but it would kick in at substantially higher income levels than the House's version. Each proposal, however, is inviting a veto, because President Bush has insisted he will not sign legislation that raises tax rates. 
 Mr. Bentsen's bill, which the Finance Committee will consider and perhaps finish with on Tuesday, would impose its 36 percent rate on individuals whose taxable income reached $150,000 and couples at $175,000. The House bill would reach its 35 percent rate for individuals whose taxable income reached $85,000 and married couples at $145,000. The current top rate is 31 percent.
 
Tax Surcharge for the Rich
 Mr. Bentsen's bill, which committee aides were still polishing tonight, would also impose a 10 percent surcharge on taxable income in excess of $1 million. So would the House bill.
Another big difference between this proposal, the House bill and Mr. Bush's approach lies in taxes on capital gains.
Mr. Bentsen's bill involves a complicated series of rates whose intent is to cut taxes on capital gains sharply for people with moderate incomes, perhaps by taxing them at only 5 percent, compared with the 15 percent rate they may pay now. But for taxpayers with very high incomes, there might be virtually no reduction from the current maximum rate of 28 percent.
Mr. Bush would lower the maximum rate to 15.4 percent. The House bill would index capital gains against inflation.
 
Economic Growth Proposals
 Like the House bill, Mr. Bentsen's proposal would incorporate several measures on which Mr. Bush has demanded action by March 20, saying they were needed immediately to stimulate economic growth. But not all of the Texas Democrat's versions matched Mr. Bush's precisely.
For example, Mr. Bush had proposed allowing businesses to take an extra 15 percent worth of first-year depreciation for new investment. The House included that provision, but Mr. Bentsen's version would allow only 10 percent worth of accelerated depreciation.
Like Mr. Bush's bill, Mr. Bentsen's would provide a $5,000 tax credit for purchases of a first home and allow penalty-free withdrawals from individual retirement accounts for that purpose. It would also include other measures to stimulate the real estate industry.
Mr. Bentsen's proposal would also include two of his favorite measures, a restoration of tax-free I.R.A.'s for almost everyone except a few high-level corporate executives, and a proposal to make health insurance more widely available to small businesses and to individuals whom insurance companies try to exclude because of existing health problems.
Senior Democratic aides said the bill would be paid for over five years, though not necessarily year by year, as the 1990 Budget Act requires. They said it would have $60 billion to $70 billion worth of tax cuts and a like amount of tax increases. Aides estimated that the 36 percent rate would bring in $43 billion and the surcharge an additional $8.5 billion.
The political cornerstone of the measure is the $300 tax credit, which aides said would help 20 million families. It would not be refundable, meaning that it would not go to families who paid less than $300 per child worth of income taxes. It would be available to parents for every child through the age of 16, and it would be permanent, unlike the two-year credits of up to $400 for a working couple in the House bill.
 
Earnest Political Case
 As their counterparts did in the House, Senate Democrats have been making an earnest political case this year that the tax code needs to be made fairer to help the middle class, and that the rich should pay for it.
Mr. Bentsen huddled again today with his Democratic colleagues on the Finance Committee, where Democrats hold only a 10-t0-9 majority over Republicans, trying to make sure the bill had enough provisions of particular interest to particular senators to get him the solid Demnocratic support he needs.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 6, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about tax legislation misstated the numbers of Democrats and Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee. There are 11 Democrats and 9 Republicans. The article also referred incorrectly to a provision of the 1990 budget act. It requires that for an entire fiscal year, all new Congressional legislation taken together provide at least as much in new revenues as it does in new spending -- both for the first year affected by the legislation and over a five-year period; it does not require a balance in each of the five years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); TAX CREDITS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; INCOME TAX TAX LAW (93%); INCOME TAX (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LEGISLATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (86%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); VETO (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); DEPRECIATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MARRIAGE (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



118 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: 2 Correspondents for Times Among Polk Award Winners

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

 BODY:
Two foreign correspondents for The New York Times are among the winners of George Polk Awards for 1991 announced yesterday by Long Island University.
Francis X. Clines, The Times's bureau chief in Moscow, was honored for his coverage of the breakup of the Soviet Union and the fall of Communism. Barbara Crossette, who headed the Times bureau in New Delhi, won for her coverage of the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi, former Prime Minister of India. 
 Also among this year's winners were Claude Sitton, retired editor of The News and Observer of Raleigh and former chief Southern correspondent for The New York Times. Mr. Sitton, who is known for his coverage of the civil rights movement for The Times, received the career award. He was honored for his "courage to stand up to the law and political forces in the South during the tumultuous late 50's and early 60's," the awards committee said.
 
Established in 1949
 The awards were established in 1949 in memory of George W. Polk, a CBS correspondent, who was killed the year before while covering the Greek civil war. The winners were selected from more than 400 nominees.
Mr. Clines was commended by the panel for giving "an in-depth look" at events in the Soviet Union and their effects on the Soviet people. Ms. Crossette was cited for "remaining in control" when a bomb killed Mr. Gandhi 10 feet away from her, then writing two page-one articles, one reporting the assassination and the other giving her personal account as a witness to the assassination.
Two Russian reporters, Konstantin Akinsha and Grigory Kozlov, won the cultural reporting award for their series in Art News Magazine on "The Soviet's Stolen Art." The last foreigner to win a Polk award was a British journalist, William Shawcross, in 1979 for his book, "Sideshow," on Cambodia.
Patrick Sloyan of Newsday was honored for a series of articles that detailed "friendly fire" deaths, unreported battles and allegations of American atrocities during the Persian Gulf war. The articles were part of a follow-up on the war covering events that could not be published during combat because of Pentagon restrictions.
Nina Totenberg, a reporter with National Public Radio, won the radio reporting award for coverage of the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Clarence Thomas. She is cited for her "ground-breaking story" reporting that Anita F. Hill, a former assistant to Mr. Thomas, had filed allegations of sexual harassment against him and that the Senate Judiciary Committee initially had not actively pursued the allegations.
 
Other Awards
 These were the other awards:
NATIONAL REPORTING -- Jeff Taylor and Mike McGraw of The Kansas City Star for an in-depth examination of the United States Department of Agriculture, exposing shortcomings in many programs.
REGIONAL REPORTING -- Dan Barry, John Sullivan and Ira Chinoy, reporters for The Providence Journal-Bulletin, for coverage of "The Ruin of the Central Credit Union," an expose of abuses and bad management in the Rhode Island state-insured credit union.
LOCAL REPORTING -- Holly A. Taylor of The Berkshire Eagle for articles about the misuse of funds at a Pittsfield, Mass., hospital, leading to the administrator's resignation and investigations by the State Attorney General's office and the Internal Revenue Service.
ECONOMICS REPORTING -- Donald L. Barlett and James B. Steele of The Philadelphia Inquirer for their series on the economy, "America: What Went Wrong?"
EDUCATION REPORTING -- Jeff Gottlieb of The San Jose Mercury News for his series on the abuse of Government research funds by Stanford University in California, "revealing that Stanford had overcharged the Government for up to $600 million."
SPECIAL AWARD -- Andrew Schneider and Mary Pat Flaherty of The Pittsburgh Press for their series on how Federal seizure and forfeiture laws, created as a weapon against major drug dealers, are "used to strip private citizens of their belongings."
NATIONAL TELEVISION REPORTING -- "The Great American Bailout," a "Frontline" program, for "detailing especially outrageous aspects of the saving and loan fiasco."
LOCAL TELEVISION REPORTING -- Christopher Scholl of KWWL-TV of Waterloo, Iowa, for coverage of two environmental hazards, chemical leaks in the ammonia industry and the leaking of toxins from a landfill into groundwater.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 1992, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the George Polk Award misidentified the most recent foreigners to have won it before the selection of two Russian reporters this year. The previous winners were Michael Buerk of the British Broadcasting Corporation and Mohammed Amin, a Kenyan photographer of Visnews, cited as a team in 1984 for foreign television reporting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: POLK, GEORGE, AWARDS IN JOURNALISM ; FRONTLINE (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (52%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES ; NEWSDAY; NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO; BARRY, DAN NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (52%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (59%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES ; NEWSDAY; NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO; BARRY, DAN LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (59%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS ; RADIO ; TELEVISION; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); WRITERS (75%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (75%); CIVIL WAR (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (68%); BOMBINGS (67%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); PUBLIC RADIO (64%); ART THEFT (63%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (59%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (50%); 

PERSON: HOWE, MARVINE; CLINES, FRANCIS X; CROSSETTE, BARBARA; SITTON, CLAUDE; AKINSHA, KONSTANTIN; KOZLOV, GRIGORY; SLOYAN, PATRICK ; TOTENBERG, NINA; TAYLOR, JEFF (REPORTER); MCGRAW, MIKE; SULLIVAN, JOHN (REPORTER); CHINOY, IRA; TAYLOR, HOLLY A ; BARLETT, DONALD L; STEELE, JAMES B; GOTTLIEB, JEFF; SCHNEIDER, ANDREW; FLAHERTY, MARY PAT; SCHOLL, CHRISTOPHER JOHN SULLIVAN (72%); CLARENCE THOMAS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



119 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: Review/Theater;
In London, a Writer's Three-Show Coup

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, March 1

 BODY:
While Broadway is flush with the promise of the spring's new plays and musicals, the West End seems trapped in a wintry past.
The hottest ticket is a revival of the earliest Andrew Lloyd Webber hit, the 1972 "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat," even as eight other brand-name musicals, some nearly as old and half of them also by Mr. Lloyd Webber, continue their immortal runs. These permanent fixtures are surrounded by no fewer than four other shows that anthologize American pop or rock-and-roll (from "A Swell Party" to "Good Rockin' Tonight") and three more that merchandise vintage Harlem jazz and dance (or the British idea of it) to almost exclusively white audiences. "The Mousetrap," anyone? 
 Only in one way does the current West End scene resemble Broadway: "Spare change?" is a ubiquitous line of dialogue. The recession, as much a factor in this British election year as it is in the American Presidential race, is visible on every block. Makeshift encampments for the homeless abound, as do the vacant storefronts and marquees that often serve as their backdrops. London's commercial producers, like their New York counterparts, are frequently discounting their high-priced tickets, often reserving star billing in their newspaper advertisements for the phrase "seats available."
Even so, don't cry for the London audience. If the West End is largely a theatrical vacuum, the big subsidized companies, the Royal National Theater and the Royal Shakespeare Company, easily compensate. Though the R.S.C.'s repertory of classics does not travel from Stratford-on-Avon to London's Barbican Center until later this month, the National is in full roar, fielding a remarkably diverse array of critical and popular hits by authors of several nationalities (the Americans Tennessee Williams and Tony Kushner included) on its three stages. There are turn-away crowds for virtually all of its productions, and it could be argued that at this moment Richard Eyre, who took over the company's artistic leadership from Peter Hall in 1988, is the most successful producer, not to mention the most versatile, in the English-speaking theater.
One of Mr. Eyre's most important artistic allies this season is the playwright, actor and sometime director Alan Bennett, who has two large-scale works in repertory at the National, a new play titled "The Madness of George III" and a long-running adaptation of the 1908 Kenneth Grahame children's classic, "The Wind in the Willows." In a coup of Lloyd Webber proportions, Mr. Bennett is also responsible for "Talking Heads," one of the very few serious dramas breaking up the musical monotony of the West End.
Actually, "Talking Heads" is an evening of monodramas, two performed by Patricia Routledge and one by Mr. Bennett himself, drawn in part from the television series of the same title, which has been seen on public television in the United States. Seeing the pieces on stage at the Comedy Theater is anything but a television experience, however. These riveting first-person accounts of lower-middle-class lives in Northern England are the dark side of monologues Mr. Bennett long ago performed in "Beyond the Fringe." In their caustic humor and aching loneliness, they set an American to thinking of the forlorn small-town Midwestern voices of Edgar Lee Masters's "Spoon River Anthology" and Sherwood Anderson's "Winesburg, Ohio."
In the first and most devastating of the Bennett soliloquies, titled "A Woman of No Importance," Ms. Routledge sits in a chair, pocketbook firmly in hand, and gossips cheerily about the minutiae of her daily office machinations as a supposedly indispensable clerical worker in a large corporation. By the end of an hour, the chair has become a wheelchair, and the actress has seemingly melted from an animated busybody into a dying and solitary victim of an unidentified illness, her face distorted beyond recognition, her voice slurred, her body buried (in blankets) as if she were Samuel Beckett's Winnie in "Happy Days."
But Mr. Bennett's real concern is not illness so much as the isolation and self-deception of a woman who does not realize that her colleagues never cared for her and who is soon abandoned and dismissed with get-well cards as anonymous as the hospital identification band on her wrist. Ms. Routledge, a hilarious comic actress distantly recalled by some New York audiences for her musical-comedy appearances (she won a Tony Award for "Darling of the Day" a quarter-century ago), is a large pudding of a woman whose delineation of her character's unwitting disintegration, as directed by the author, is harrowing to behold. I have never heard a restive Wednesday matinee audience, or at least one typically packed with women of the same late middle age as Ms. Routledge, grow so hushed as the one at the Comedy did during the terminal stages of this tour de force.
In the actress's concluding turn in "Talking Heads," titled "A Lady of Letters," another unmarried woman, a dour moral scold, comes to a perverse happy ending: she finds in jail the warm community and emotional liberation she never knew in the semi-detached isolation of her mean little neighborhood. English life is also a prison in the middle monologue, "A Chip in the Sugar," in which Mr. Bennett insinuatingly embodies Graham, a repressed, psychologically impaired homosexual whose narrow existence is jeopardized when his 72-year-old widowed mother threatens to evict him to make room for her new "fancy man." Like the two women of "Talking Heads," Graham and his unseen mother inhabit a fragmented and desolate human landscape in which an older generation is equally terrified of the T-shirt-wearing young, all racial minorities and any glimmer of social change.
It would seem a long leap from the bleak, present-day interior worlds of "Talking Heads" to Mr. Bennett's highly populated period pieces at the National, both of which have been given extravagant, epic stagings by Nicholas Hytner, the director of "Miss Saigon." Yet what most struck me about Mr. Bennett's version of "The Wind in the Willows" is that its hermetic vision of an eternal boyhood recalls Graham as much as Grahame.
Suffused with nostalgia for Edwardian England and its idyllic riverside vistas, this "Wind in the Willows" also cherishes the bygone boarding-school gentility and unarticulated gay crushes of Toad (Desmond Barrit), Rat (David Ross), Badger (Michael Bryant) and their new young protege, Mole (Adrian Scarborough). If anything, they are reminiscent of the gentlemanly traitors Anthony Blunt and Guy Burgess, as much Cambridge as Marxist, that Mr. Bennett dramatized in his previous National Theater work, "Single Spies." For children, if not this impatient adult, "The Wind in the Willows" offers lush spectacle (designed by Mark Thompson), Christmas-pantomime-style burlesque comedy and, in the "Cats" manner, the frequent deployment of a large and musical chorus of anthropomorphic rabbits, hedgehogs, squirrels and field mice.
"The Madness of George III" goes back to an even earlier Britain, that of 1788, when its title character, played by Nigel Hawthorne, was thought to have gone insane. Today George III is believed to have suffered from a metabolic rather than a psychological ailment, and much of Mr. Bennett's play is a nasty satire of the various quacks who torture the poor man with cruel and humiliating treatments in the name of advanced 18th-century medical science. The work's huge, gilt-framed canvas is filled out with lengthy recountings of Georgian political intrigues that add historical weight and plot to the evening without contributing much to either its dramatic force or intellectual passions.
It is when Mr. Hawthorne is at center stage that Mr. Bennett's play becomes highly charged, and not just because the actor is giving what may be the performance of his career as a quixotic monarch whose unpredictable behavior veers from clownish childishness to pathetic dementia to magisterial, Lear-like resignation, sometimes all in the same scene. "George III" is dominated by the image of its protagonist's illness, most horrifically realized at the Act I curtain, when he is strapped into a chair by his tormentors. As Handel's Coronation Anthem blares at top volume, the agonized, blistered Mr. Hawthorne howls defiantly, "I am the King of England!" only to be informed by his doctor: "No, sir. You are the patient."
As a suffering patient, this King is nothing if not a direct ancestor of the wheelchair-bound, middle-class woman of no importance played by Ms. Routledge in "Talking Heads." Alan Bennett's comedies may be crowd-pleasers, but they are subversive ones, depicting lost souls who seem to emblemize an unhappy England that cannot diagnose, let alone cure, its ills.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 1992, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Tuesday with a review of plays by Alan Bennett in London misidentified the theater at which "Talking Heads" is playing. It is the Comedy Theater.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nigel Hawthorne, left, and Matthew Lloyd Davies in a scene from Alan Bennett's "Madness of George III" at the Royal National Theater in London. At right, Mr. Bennett appears in his play "Talking Heads," which is also playing at the Royal National Theater. (Photographs by Alastair Muir)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WIND IN THE WILLOWS, THE (PLAY); MADNESS OF GEORGE III, THE (PLAY); WIND IN THE WILLOWS, THE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (96%); 

COMPANY: SHAKESPEARE CO UNITED KINGDOM (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (96%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); MUSICAL THEATER (91%); BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WRITERS (86%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); POP & ROCK (70%); RETAILERS (69%); ELECTIONS (67%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (52%); HOMELESSNESS (52%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK; BENNETT, ALAN; GRAHAME, KENNETH FRANK RICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1992



120 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Careers;
Investing In Skilled Work Force

BYLINE: By Elizabeth M. Fowler

 BODY:
A NEW center related to the University of Pennsylvania poses the challenge of how "to revitalize the economy by making long-term investments in a skilled work force."
 Named the National Center on the Education Quality of the Work Force, it is part of the university's Institute f0r Research on Higher Education, in Philadelphia, and is financed by the Pew Charitable Trusts. 
Last week Robert Zemsky, the center's co-executive director, was in New York to talk about the problem facing him and the center in determining how to reach top managers and interest them in training employees. "We are groping," he acknowledged last week, adding that "blaming the American worker for getting us into an economic mess makes no more sense than blaming government for not getting us out of it."
 Very much on his mind was the vocal criticism of some Japanese leaders, who contend that American workers lack working skills, blaming them in essence for the loss of American leadership in such product areas as autos, radio and television, steel, some computers and computer peripherals.
 He agreed that this country "has fallen behind in international competition" and said that managers had blamed schools and others instead of first "examining their firms' human resource policies and practices."
 To top and middle managers he has this to say: Stop blaming the worker. Manage your enterprise as a portfolio of employee skills that can be adapted and trained for particular jobs, and treat schools and colleges as suppliers, picking the best among them.
 "The fairest thing to say to top managers is that your world is changing, and productivity is a function of the skills of their staffs and the skills their lower-level employees have," he said. "We think the best way to start is to bring small groups of managers together with their own live program."
 The basics involve understanding the customer and letting him define the quality of the products, and the second is that people work better in teams. "You don't have to employ a Deming to understand this," he said, referring to W. Edwards Deming, the quality expert.
 "We want to get the top people involved, " he continued. He said that this summer, in a major Midwestern city that he refused to identify, a small group of managers from a bank, telephone company, insurance company, public uitlity and hospital would meet over a three-month period to discuss their skills needs and training needs, with Mr. Zemsky and some of his staff assisting. Faculty members from the leading graduate school of business in the city are also to be involved.
 "They would learn from each other." he said. Once the problems have been identified, the school of business could offer the training.
 Among the group of about 20 there will be an exchange of information face-to-face, as well as teleconferencing. After three months, another "working party" will be organized, Mr. Zemsky said. He said that the five companies were subscribing a total of $125,000 for the initial program. Future ones will cost less.
 "We have argued you cannot lead horses to water and make them drink," he said. "You have to create a demand for training." He added that it must be a matter of willingness and understanding of the need of how to make better use of skills and training.
 "Too often training is not considered an integral part of an American manager's job, unlike in Japan. " he explained. In Japan a manager owns and conceptualizes the training programs, even though they might not come out of his budget.
 There is one notable American exception, he continued, the military. An Army captain, for example, conceptualizes and understands that training is part of his job, he said. "It is a real, perceived demand for training, under the aegis of the captain." he added.
 Although he has planned a team approach for large Midwestern companies, he said a different approach might be needed for smaller ones.
 Mr. Zemsky cited the Illinois Manufacturers Association, which works with Northern Illinois University in De Kalb, Ill., to fulfill the needs of its members, mainly small companies.
 Another approach to training, he predicted, would be the more widespread use of apprenticeships, and his organization plans a research report on them. This, Mr. Zemsky said, would involve a cultural change for many managers by forcing them to deal directly with apprentices and their on-the-job training, adding that "managers do not like like first-time workers." "They want them seasoned," he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CAREERS (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY LABOR FORCE (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (66%); COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (52%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M; ZEMSKY, ROBERT ROBERT ZEMSKY (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1992



121 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Assessment -- And Still, Mixed Reviews;
Bush, Tsongas and Clinton All Have Reason To Rejoice, Yet All Have Reason to Be Wary

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 3

 BODY:
It was a day when the big boys in both parties got something, but some of the little guys among the Democrats got hustled closer to the exit.
The best news was delivered to Bill Clinton, who found that he could win big inside his home region and compete effectively elsewhere despite weeks of battering in the press, and to Paul E. Tsongas, who found that he could win outside his home region, in Maryland and in Utah as well. President Bush managed to fight off a threat by a tyro who has never held elective office, but he learned that he faces a long hard slog. 
 Two constituencies emerged among the Democrats. Mr. Tsongas appealed principally to highly paid, well-educated urban and suburban voters, and Mr. Clinton more to those further down the economic and educational scale. That division mirrored the differences in the candidates' messages.
 
Race Is Narrowing
 Both men, in what is now essentially a two-man race, are liberal on questions of race and most other social issues. But Mr. Tsongas is much more conservative on tax and fiscal policy than Mr. Clinton, and the space that divides them is likely to be the main battleground in the weeks ahead, with the Arkansas Governor strafing his rival as an advocate of trickle-down policies that failed in the 1980's under two Republican administrations.
Among the Republicans, Patrick J. Buchanan demonstrated once more the weight of the protest vote and its wide distribution. In the South as in New England and the upper Midwest, between 3 and 4 voters out of 10 seem unwilling to support the President in Republican primaries, even when he campaigns hard, as he did in Georgia.
"We can win this nomination," Mr. Buchanan said, promising to campaign constantly, in the North and the South, in the next week.
 
No Victory, No Retreat
 But the challenger has still not won a primary, and if he could not win in New Hampshire or Georgia, with weeks to build up a head of steam, it is hard to see him doing it in the days ahead, when the schedule gets much more crowded. That does not mean, of course, that Mr. Buchanan will pull out; many Republicans, including Edward J. Rollins, a White House political director under Ronald Reagan, argue that Mr. Buchanan has "caught the fever" and will fight on to gain a better position for the 1996 race.
The President expects to do considerably better this weekend in South Carolina, where Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr. is striving to repeat the success of 1988, when his management gave Mr. Bush's candidacy a strategically timed lift. Mr. Bush's camp was encouraged by a rise of 0.9 percent in the index of leading economic indicators, which offered hope that the recession might be waning by November.
"We ought to win one on Saturday and eight next Tuesday" said Robert M. Teeter, Mr. Bush's campaign manager. "Buchanan will end up in the low 30 percents, in the high 30's in others, especially the ones where Democrats and independents can cross over. But he can't beat us."
What Mr. Buchanan has done so far, in a campaign laced with appeals to race and unsparing, unrelenting attacks on Mr. Bush's tax and foreign policies, is to soften the President up for the Democratic nominee in the fall. Again in Georgia, most of Mr. Buchanan's backers said they had voted for him to send a message, and the text of the message was economic anxiety.
Unfortunately for the Democrats, they are not much closer to settling on a standard-bearer than they were before today's tests in seven states, including three primaries, an unofficial primary and three caucuses. And there is no certainty the 11 contests on Super Tuesday seven days hence will advance things much further.
Mr. Tsongas, the former Massachusetts Senator who threatens to make counter-charisma chic, broke out of his New England base with his solid victory in Maryland. He badly needed to do that because his New Hampshire victory had been followed by a big disappointment in South Dakota.
 
Tsongas Gains Credibility
 Apparently headed for strong showings in Colorado and in some Western caucus states as well, Mr. Tsongas gave himself the kind of credibility without which he would probably be doomed on Super Tuesday. Endorsements from some major party figures are expected to follow, and he should be able to raise enough money to compete effectively on television.
But Governor Clinton of Arkansas also scored. He swept Georgia, the first Southern state to declare its Presidential preference this year, and in doing so positioned himself to run strongly in the states that vote on Super Tuesday, including six that border on his home territory of Arkansas: Tennessee, Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, Oklahoma and Missouri.
A poll by Voter Research and Surveys suggested that Mr. Clinton won the backing of almost three-quarters of the black voters in the Georgia primary, a good augury for him in the days ahead, because the black vote has become indispensable to victory for Democrats in the South. He also won two-thirds of the black vote in Maryland.
Georgia established Mr. Clinton as the solid favorite for Saturday's primary in South Carolina, where the population is about 30 percent black. But in a region that he had once hoped would sew up the nomination for him, the Governor now faces real competition, and Super Tuesday will probably not decide matters.
As they have done for more than a month, Mr. Tsongas and Mr. Clinton played the leading Democratic roles in most of the contests on what has been dubbed Junior Tuesday. But former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California, who staged a surprise in Maine on Feb. 23 by finishing only a hair's breadth behind Mr. Tsongas, showed his power in the West in a tight race with Mr. Tsongas and Mr. Clinton in Colorado and in some caucuses.
Despite his dearth of financing and hence of television advertisements, and despite his long absence from national politics, Mr. Brown is apparently prospering from his attacks on the status quo at a time of political disaffection and from his attacks on nuclear power in states where that remains a big issue.
But Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, who seemed splendidly positioned to step in when Mr. Clinton's campaign was staggered last month by accusations of draft avoidance and marital infidelity, again failed to demonstrate any real appeal in hotly contested states. He did not finish second in any state with a primary, nor did he get enough support to win any delegates.
After all but conceding defeat everywhere on this round, Mr. Kerrey appealed for support in the caucuses in Arizona on Saturday and Nevada on Sunday. "I am concerned about my campaign," he said in Phoenix.
 
Kerrey Hopes for Comeback
 His strategists hope that the race will remain open long enough for him to stage a comeback. For the moment at least, the Tsongas people are happy to have him in, believing that he takes votes from Mr. Clinton; the Clinton people would rather see him out, believing that as long as he is running, he could always catch fire.
Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa looks becalmed. Once considered a major player in Maryland, he faded badly, and even if he winds up winning in Minnesota, as a straw poll in the caucuses there indicated, he is out of money and strategically stymied. Terry Michael, a Democratic consultant, commented: "Harkin's campaign is dead. The only person who hasn't acknowledged that fact is Tom Harkin."
Mr. Clinton will try to score a series of victories next week, to demonstrate conclusively that he has survived his early difficulties, and his chances are good. In addition to the six states that touch on his own, he is considered a strong contender in Florida, which will elect 148 Democratic delegates, the second largest total for Super Tuesday after the 196 in Texas.
But Mr. Tsongas will not be shut out. He is strongly favored in his home state, Massachusetts, which picks 94 delegates, and neighboring Rhode Island.
In addition, his campaign manager, Dennis Kanin, said today that the former Senator would mount a major campaign, including both personal appearances and intensive television advertising, in both Florida and Texas, where Michael S. Dukakis did suprisingly well in the 1988 primaries. Mr. Kanin said Mr. Tsongas would concentrate on urban and suburban areas in the two states, leaving more conservative rural areas to other candidates, mainly Mr. Clinton.
A poll taken in Florida last weekend by Mason-Dixon Opinion Research showed a two-man race there, with Mr. Clinton ahead but not by a lot.
Outside Florida and New England, there are Democratic caucuses in Hawaii and Delaware, where the results are very difficult to forecast. But unless he falters unexpectedly, Mr. Tsongas should be able to win enough on what once looked to him like an impossible day to arrive in Illinois and Michigan on March 17 on fully competitive terms with Governor Clinton.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;;MARYLAND; GEORGIA; UTAH UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES; ELECTION RESULTS ; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (60%); SUBURBS (54%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); TSONGAS, PAUL E; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); KERREY, BOB (SEN) ; HARKIN, TOM (SEN); BROWN, EDMUND G JR BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOM HARKIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



122 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: New Insurance Practice: Dividing Sick From Well

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
In a new practice, some health insurance companies are starting to divide the sick from the well, even in large groups that were once a bastion of security in a tumultuous industry.
Families in large groups had always felt that if they had been part of the group for at least six months or a year, their medical costs would be covered and their premiums would remain stable. But now, some insurance companies are dramatically raising rates for sick people, and even for people they think may become sick. 
 The result, said Dr. Norman Daniels, an ethicist at Tufts University who is an expert on health insurance, is that "no one in this country with private health insurance coverage who is in any kind of group plan is free from the kind of uncertainty that competition is producing."
He added, "We are beginning to see that people who have the greatest access to health care in this country are at risk."
 
$16,000 Annual Premium
 No one knows how common it is for insurance companies to raise the rates for the sick in large groups, which usually consist of employees at big corporations or members of special-interest organizations. But the experience of Kathleen Renshaw of Leucadia, Calif., and others shows that the problem, once thought to be limited to small groups, is spreading to large groups as well.
Ms. Renshaw finally admitted defeat in her struggle to keep group health insurance for her family when the annual premium reached $16,000 a year. Her problem is her 8-year-old daughter, Marisa, an exuberant child who swims on a team and takes singing lessons.
 
Who Is at Risk?
 But Marisa has only one kidney, and it does not fully function. She needs regular checkups and may face kidney failure in the future. When the family's insurance company learned of the problem, which doctors discovered when Marisa was 3, it began doubling the family's health insurance premiums each year, the maximum increase allowed by California law.
Finally, the family could no longer pay. And no other company would insure them. Along with Marisa, Ms. Renshaw, her husband, William Harvey, and their 4-year-old daughter, Kirsten, who has no medical problems, were out in the cold even though they had been part of a large group with health insurance.
Ms. Renshaw and Mr. Harvey never thought they would be without health insurance. They both have jobs, they bought group health insurance through the alumni association at the University of California at San Diego, and they always paid their premiums.
"I thought that when you pay insurance, the insurance companies will pay for you when you get sick," Ms. Renshaw said. It was a shock to learn otherwise, she said.
Dr. Donald Light, a sociologist who is professor of health policy at the University of Medicine and Denistry of New Jersey, said the family's experience was "a tragic example of the spiral of exclusion that is spreading through the entire health care industry."
The Renshaw family fell victim to a practice that Dr. Light calls policy churning. Each year, the company would raise its rates. At the same time, it invited its members to reapply for an attractive low rate for new subscribers. But people who were sick or had a pre-existing condition were turned down for the lower rate when they reapplied, forcing them to accept whatever rate the company would impose.
Dr. Light said group insurance programs until recently covered any member who became ill. The costs for the sick people were spread over the entire group. But the new practice changes the rules so that group members who become sick or, the company suspects, may become sick, have to pay much more for their coverage.
Dr. Light said the practice began in small groups, like self-insured small businesses, in the mid- to late 1980's. While it is still most common in small groups, he said, it is spreading to larger and larger groups. The group that Ms. Renshaw and Mr. Harvey joined had thousands of families.
 
Remaining Competitive
 Dr. Daniels said practices that weed out the sick are the insurance industry's way of remaining competitive by selling insurance at low rates to people who are well. "What's really at work are a set of economic factors," he said. Insurers realize that people who are healthy will shop around for the lowest rates they can get, so insurers have to compete with each other to attract this healthy, income-generating group. The sicker people, however, cannot shop around because no other company will take them or will charge them rates at least as high as they are currently paying. So, Dr. Daniels said, "insurers have underwriting procedures to sort people out."
The administrator of the alumni group insurance, Association Consultants Inc. of Chicago, said that the group had offered attractive low rates to new subscribers, forcing members of the group to reapply regularly or pay much more. But, said William Richard Floyd, the vice president of Association Consultants, the group had no recourse. "The greatest fear any plan has is that new applicants will stop coming in," he said. "If you stop that flow, the plan will terminate because of poor experience."
Dr. Uwe Reinhardt, an economist at Princeton University, said the insurance problems that beset Ms. Renshaw's family were a graphic example of why he calls the American system health "unsurance" rather than health insurance. He added that these problems show why health care had become a potent issue in the current election campaign.
Donald B. White, a spokesman for the Health Insurance Association of America, which represents commercial insurance companies, said that what happened to Ms. Renshaw's family was unacceptable. And he said it was because of cases like hers that "we and everyone else are proposing reforms that would change the laws so that could not happen again."
Mr. White said most problems are with small groups, so the insurance association has proposed legislation to change that market. It wants Federal laws to guarantee that high-risk people in small groups can buy insurance at a cost that is no more than 50 percent more than the average premium. Senator Lloyd Bentsen, Democrat of Texas, has introduced a bill in Congress that would prevent the exclusion of sicker individuals from health insurance coverage sold to small businesses and would prevent small groups from canceling policies of sicker people.
 
After the Diagnosis
 But these remedies do not address the situation that Ms. Renshaw and Mr. Harvey faced because they were not insured with a small group.
Ms. Renshaw said that she and her husband purchased their insurance after Marisa was born. Mr. Harvey, who is self-employed in the construction industry, had no employer to offer insurance and neither did Ms. Renshaw, who until recently worked as a photographer and is now a substitute teacher.
Marisa, however, was not a healthy baby. She failed to gain weight as she should have and no one knew why. Finally, when Marissa was 3, her doctor discovered that she had just one kidney and it had been permanently damaged by a urinary tract infection.
A year later, the family's insurance premiums started to escalate. In two increases over the course of the year, the rate soared from $1,552 a year to $5,080 a year. The company did say, however, that Ms. Renshaw and Mr. Harvey could reapply for insurance and, if accepted, get a lower rate. They applied and were rejected, meaning they were stuck with the soaring rates. "That was how they separated the sick people from the well people," Ms. Renshaw said.
 
Drops Out of Program
 To reduce their premiums, Mr. Harvey dropped out of the program and went uninsured. That brought the premium to $3,160 a year.
But the next year, in February 1989, the rate was increased again to $4,420 a year. In February 1990, it rose to $8,844 a year, payable quarterly. "We made two of those payments, but it was getting to the point where our health insurance was as much as our mortgage," Ms. Renshaw said. Then, she said, she got a telephone call from the company saying it was raising the rate to $16,000 a year.
In desperation, Ms. Renshaw tried calling her alumni association but, she said, they offered no help and, "eventually they stopped returning my calls.' She said she also called members of the California Assembly. "They said, 'That's too bad. You should start a grass roots petition,' " she recalled.
Ms. Renshaw and Mr. Harvey tried to find another company to insure the family, but none would. The best they could do was get minimal coverage for their daughters. They said they were told by the companies that they could get coverage for the family if Marisa's kidney was excluded, but the cost of paying for all of Marisa's sonograms and checkups for her kidney as well as the health insurance premiums would reach at least $7,000 a year. They could not afford it, Ms. Renshaw said.
 
Limited Coverage Now
 Through a catastrophic health insurance plan of the California Children Services, Marisa is now covered for major problems with her kidney, but nothing else. And this coverage, Ms. Renshaw said, is available only if a family of four has an income of $40,000 or less. But if Ms. Renshaw gets a full-time teaching job, which she has been seeking, the family would be disqualified by its income. In that case, she said, "our next option is a divorce."
Kirsten is covered by an individual Blue Cross policy with a $1,500 deductible. But the policy excludes payments for her sinuses, because she has had two sinus infections. And it will not cover any problems with her eyes because Ms. Renshaw once took her to an opthalmologist, mistakenly thinking that her eyes were crossed.
Ms. Renshaw said her search for insurance has led her to get a teaching certificate, rather than one in marriage and family counseling, which she preferred, because she does not want to be self-emplyed. As a teacher, she reasoned, she would have a chance of getting insurance though the school system. And she has is putting off having a baseline mammogram until after she gets insurance for the family, afraid that if the mammogram detects any suspicious lumps in her breast, she would fail to get insurance.
As she applies for a teaching position, Ms. Renshaw said that she is afraid to mention Marisa's kidney problem. "I might not get a job," she said.
And she and her husband live in terror of illness because medical bills could easily bankrupt them. "I'm afraid we'll lose our house," Ms. Renshaw said. "That's the only thing we have."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marisa Harvey's kidney problems prompted her family's health insurance company to double their premiums annually until the family could no longer pay. With Marisa, left, outside their home in Leucadia, Calif., are her mother, Kathleen Renshaw, her father, William Harvey, and her sister, Kirsten. (Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH INSURANCE ASSN OF AMERICA HEALTH INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH INSURANCE ASSN OF AMERICA HEALTH INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; RATES; CONSUMER PROTECTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS ; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); FAMILY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); ETHICS (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (68%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (63%); CONSUMER LAW (61%); 

PERSON: WHITE, DONALD B; KOLATA, GINA; RENSHAW, KATHLEEN KATHLEEN RENSHAW (90%); DONALD LIGHT (67%); NORMAN DANIELS (60%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); WILLIAM HARVEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



123 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Russian Envoy Says Famine Is Unlikely, for Now

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3

 BODY:
Russia's new Ambassador to Washington said today that the former Soviet republics would most likely get through this winter without any famine, but that disruptions in planting this spring could lead to serious shortages next year.
"I don't think that this year famine is the real menace," said Vladimir N. Lukin, during an interview in a sitting room of the former Soviet Embassy, now the Russian Embassy, on 16th Street. "Of course, in some parts the situation in foodstuffs will be difficult, but I am sure that we will survive until the new harvest." 
 Mr. Lukin said he is much more concerned about next winter. "First, everything depends on the Almighty whether it will be good harvest," said the 59-year-old envoy.
 
Agriculture in Crisis
 "Second it will depend on whether we succeed in implementing our agrarian reform -- in a situation in which our agricultural industry is in crisis. I am afraid that this harvest will not be matched by appropriate preparations and that is frankly why I consider the next year the most difficult."
Mr. Lukin, who served as the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee of the Russian Parliament before assuming the post of the first Russian Ambassador in the United States since 1917, said that such concerns underscore the need for both Russia and the United States to cooperate in organizing technical and humanitarian assistance to the former Soviet Union.
While he repeatedly expressed thanks for aid Washington has already provided, and blamed his own country for many of the failures in getting assistance to the right places at the right time, he nevertheless made clear that unless the United States and the West did more to support the emerging democracies of the Commonwealth of Independent States, they would turn to other countries, like Iran, for help.
"We have to make many choices," said Mr. Lukin, who speaks good English thanks to his 19 years of work as an analyst at the U.S.A.-Canada Institute, before going into politics in the late 1980's. "We would prefer to do it with the United States because we consider it the first democracy. But we should look for some alternatives if it is not possible."
Mr. Lukin acknowledged that such a search for alternatives "could lead to some undesirable connections."
Therefore, he said, the question of supporting Russia and other reform-minded republics cannot be looked at by the West from a narrow security, or economic, perspective. Rather, he said, it has to be looked at more broadly from the perspective of supporting the spread of democracy around the globe, as well as the security of "Western civilization."
"If the United States does not do something very effective, not only for Russia but with this whole Eurasian area," he said, "the political leadership would be reproached for a lost historical opportunity, and strategic opportunity to create a combined military, economic, social and political common space in which democracy can live."
"For us," added Mr. Lukin, "it is a problem of life or death." But for the United States, as the leader of the democratic world, he said, it is a question of how "it will stand up to this historical challenge."
Mr. Lukin's second day on the job coincided with an announcement today by President Bush that he and the Russian President, Boris N. Yeltsin, would hold a summit meeting in the United States on June 16 and 17 to review "the ever-strengthening relationships between the two countries."
In making the announcement of the summit meeting, which Russian officials had earlier said would be held in July, President Bush was warm in his praise for Mr. Yeltsin, whom he described as doing a "superb job."
The President's praise for Mr. Yeltsin was in sharp contrast to the very reserved posture the Administration adopted toward him when he first replaced Mikhail S. Gorbachev. The change in tone appears to be a combination of two factors: a recognition that they must work with Mr. Yeltsin, whatever their reservations about him, and a genuine sense that the Russian President has taken some courageous and unpopular economic steps that deserve American support and respect.
That notion was echoed loudly by Mr. Lukin, an affable, urbane Russian intellectual, who describes his three passions as Russian literature, hockey and football -- not necessarily in that order. During the Super Bowl, which featured the Washington Redskins, he described himself as "a former Red for the Redskins."
Mr. Lukin, a native of Omsk, in Western Siberia, said his challenge and the challenge for his American counterparts, is persuading the Russian and American bureaucracies that the cold war really is over, that Russia is not the successor of the Soviet Union, but rather a radically different, democratic political enterprise and therefore a radically different partner for the United States.
"There is some lack of understanding of the new reality," said Mr. Lukin, who cemented his relationship with Mr. Yeltsin by joining him behind the barricades of the Russian Parliament last August, resisting the abortive hard-line coup. If it is Communism that the United States and the West were fighting all these years, he said, "so we won and we should somehow strengthen the forces that won this battle."
But if there are some who "see Russia as the eternal enemy of the United States, we have some problems."
Calling Russia "the main driving democratic and anti-imperial force in this geopolitical space" Mr. Lukin asked, "Could you imagine the Baltic states turning out independent without Russia's contribution, the Ukraine independent without Russia's contribution? If we really mean to struggle against totalitarianism, we should support the force that is the real vanguard of this struggle. The idea that Russia is eternally chauvinistic does not meet now with reality."
While Mr. Lukin occupies the former Soviet Embassy, the place already has a different feel to it. Fewer guards seemed to be in the lobby, the atmosphere among the staff seems relaxed and Mr. Lukin apologized profusely for not allowing a photographer to photograph him in his office because it was still a "restricted zone," which he promised would soon be unrestricted.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vladimir N. Lukin, the new Russian Ambassador, during interview yesterday in Washington. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FOREIGN AID; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; FOOD; FAMINE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AGRICULTURE FAMINE (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); POLITICS (71%); AGRICULTURE (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); TRENDS (63%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; LUKIN, VLADIMIR N (AMB); LUKIN, VLADIMIR N (AMB) (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



124 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: White House;
Bush Says Raising Taxes Was Biggest Blunder of His Presidency

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ROSEMONT, Ill., March 3

 BODY:
In his increasingly anxious search for a way to blunt the conservative assault of Patrick J. Buchanan, President Bush has acknowledged in a published interview that breaking his "no new taxes" pledge was the biggest mistake of his Presidency because it is hobbling his bid for re-election.
"If I had it to do over, I wouldn't do what I did then, for a lot of reasons, including political reasons," Mr. Bush said in an interview with a columnist for The Atlanta Journal. 
He did not say the tax increase hurt the economy, but he did say he regretted it because of all the "political grief" he has suffered for agreeing to a 1990 budget compromise with Congressional Democrats that raised taxes.
Mr. Bush today tried to soften his words in the interview, published on the eve of today's Republican primary in Georgia, where Mr. Buchanan has been hammering Mr. Bush for abandoning his 1988 pledge on taxes. But his comments in the interview and in today's remarks to reporters at the White House marked not only an extraordinary act of political contrition but also an abrupt reversal that was intended to break his political slide.
In the past, Mr. Bush has resolutely, at times defiantly, refused to recant his agreement to raise taxes in 1990, which he insisted was a necessary evil to win a Congressional agreement.
 
'I Regret It and I Regret It'
 Some conservatives have said that Mr. Bush needed to apologize for the tax increase to regain conservative support, especially in the South, and his remarks seemed clearly aimed at that goal. Indeed, having decided to make that gesture to the right, the White House became concerned on Monday night when Mr. Bush's apology did not receive as much attention as his advisers had hoped, and they went out of their way today to make sure reporters knew of it.
It brought the President full circle in his search for an effective response to Mr. Buchanan's pointed attacks, which have included a flood of television commercials showing Mr. Bush declaring in 1988, "Read my lips: no new taxes."
Having tried apologies, shows of compassion and cajoling in New Hampshire, and then threats of negative campaigning and attack ads in the South, the President has gone back to apologies.
"I did it and I regret it and I regret it," Mr. Bush said in the Journal interview.
The President again spoke about his regret today, when he met with reporters on the White House lawn before flying to this Chicago suburb to address the National Association of Evangelicals. In his speech he vowed to veto pending legislative that would establish the right to abortion by Federal statute.
In another of his many interviews with Georgia journalists, this time on Sunday with television station WXIA in Atlanta, Mr. Bush said he wished he could have another chance at the decision to go back on the central pledge of his 1988 campaign.
"Any time you get hammered on something, I guess you want to redo it," he said in what was a sharp departure from his usual insistence on "staying the course" despite political pressures.
Mr. Buchanan said today that he was disappointed that Mr. Bush talked only about the political ramifications of the tax increase. "He doesn't consider that it was an economic blunder of the first magnitude," Mr. Buchanan said while campaigning in South Carolina. "He's just talking about the politics of it."
 
Fodder for Democrats
 Democratic lawmakers were quick to seize on Mr. Bush's remarks as a new sign that he lacks leadership on domestic policy. "When the President backs away from the deficit reduction agreement because he's 'getting hammered,' isn't he really saying he lacks the leadership to make tough decisions?" said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader.
The 1990 agreement on raising taxes, engineered by John H. Sununu, then White House chief of staff, and Richard G. Darman, the budget director, soured White House relations with conservatives and drew sharp rebukes from many Republican lawmakers, notably Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the minority whip, who has now taken to defending Mr. Bush on taxes as a gesture of party unity.
 
Apostate in the White House?
 Mr. Gingrich said today: "I think it is very hopeful that President Bush has recognized that the Democratic leadership of Congress is addicted to higher spending and higher taxes. I think it's a clear sign he will veto any tax increase this year."
In 1990, Mr. Bush tried to force the dismissal of Edward Rollins, who was then co-chairman of the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee, for publicly denouncing the tax increase.
But White House and campaign strategists are now staring at public opinion polls that show confidence in Mr. Bush's handling of the economy constantly slipping, and they fear that Mr. Buchanan has had some success in painting Mr. Bush as an apostate conservative who cannot be trusted. They worry that in Georgia and elsewhere Mr. Buchanan can continue to capitalize on conservative opposition to Mr. Bush, which springs largely from his broken tax pledge, and on general public anger over the state of the economy.
The White House does not normally provide transcripts of interviews with individual reporters. But today it distributed excerpts of the Journal interview -- with the apologetic remarks highlighted -- and two other recent interviews, the one with WXIA and one with Cal Thomas, a columnist for The Los Angeles Times.
 
A Message Scrambled
 But the President's message still seemed disjointed. Last night, shortly after he offered his apology to the South, Mr. Bush, on a Baltimore television station, told an interviewer who asked about the tax increase: "Every once in a while you've got to do something that tastes like castor oil. I didn't want to shut the Government down."
And, speaking to reporters on the White House lawn today, Mr. Bush tried to back off slightly from his words to the Journal and shift the blame for the tax increase back to Congress. "I had the distinct feeling that that one deal would be the one-time compromise," he said.
In the Journal interview, Mr. Bush was reminded that President Ronald Reagan later concluded that the tax increase he signed in 1982 was the biggest mistake of his Presidency. "Well, I'd be glad to say the same thing," Mr. Bush replied. "In terms of -- in fact, somebody just asked me about it in an interview and I said, 'Listen, if I had that to do over I wouldn't do it. Look at all the flak it's taking.' "
In the interview with Mr. Thomas Mr. Bush seemed vexed that Mr. Reagan had been able to raise taxes without suffering the political beating he has taken. "Nobody accuses him of wanting to go back on 'no taxes,' " Mr. Bush said. "But he had to do it, and he did it, and he regretted it."
 
No New Pledge
 Mr. Thomas asked Mr. Bush if could foresee any circumstances in which he might raise taxes if he won a second term. The President offered something less than a new 'no taxes' pledge, saying, "No, I can't see that."
At the White House, Mr. Bush was again asked if the tax increase had been his biggest mistake.
"Well, I don't know about the biggest," he replied. "But, yes, I, you see, I'm very disappointed with Congress. I thought this one compromise, and it was a compromise, would result in no more tax increases. I thought it would result in total control of domestic discretionary spending. And now we see Congress talking about raising taxes again. And some in Congress are talking about trying to break down the spending caps. And so I'm disappointed and given all of that, yes, a mistake."
Asked if his comments might be too late to backtrack on his 1990 tax increase on the eve of the primaries in Georgia and other states, Mr. Bush said, "I don't know whether it's late or not. It's just the way I feel given what's going on on Capitol Hill. It's getting intense.
"As you know, the House passed a tax bill which I'll veto, and now, much to my consternation, you see the Senate going about the same old business. So this just gangs up on you, plus the political flak out there."
As he went to his helicopter, Mr. Bush was asked again if the tax increase was the biggest mistake of his Presidency. "Well, I don't know," he said. "I don't know. We'll see."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patrick J. Buchanan greeting voters yesterday at the Florence Christian School in Florence, S.C., during a last-minute campaign swing. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Bush on Taxes"
 "The Congress will push me to raise taxes, and I'll say no, and they'll push, and I'll say no, and they'll push again, and I'll sday to them, 'Read my lips: No new taxes.' " -- Aug. 18, 1988, acceptance speech, Republican National Convention

 	 	 		--------------------	 	"It is clear to me that both the size of the deficit problem and the need for a package that can be enacted require all of the following: entitlement and mandatory program reform; tax revenue increases; growth incentives; discretionary spending reducitons. -- Written statement, June 26, 1990, agreeing to a bipartisan budget plan that included tax increases

 	 	 		--------------------	 	In this climate, one thing I'm determined not to do is to bust the budget deal up there in Washington that caps Federal spending, and then, if we busted it, would open up the floodgates for Congressional tax-and-spend policies. -- Speech in Dallas, Nov. 1, 1991

 	 	 		--------------------	 	 "Listen, if I had to do that over, I wouldn't do it. Look at all the flak it's taking." -- Interview with The Atlanta Journal, published yesterday
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (89%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: FLORENCE, SC, USA (89%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (50%); WHITE HOUSE (92%); REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (92%); REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GEORGIA; SOUTHERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (89%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORENCE, SC, USA (89%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRIMARIES INTERVIEWS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); JOURNALISM (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



125 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Democrats;
Wall Street Has a Rally, For Tsongas

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
It was a strange image: a Democratic candidate for President having a rally on Wall Street yesterday.
But it seemed completely normal to Paul E. Tsongas, whose mission to turn his party into what he calls a "hybrid" -- liberal on social issues but pro-business -- has made him an anomaly to the Democratic leadership.
Paul Yednak, a vice president at M. A. Schapiro & Company, a Wall Street firm, said he was a Republican who "voted for Bush, Reagan, Reagan, Nixon and Nixon." 
 "But I don't think I'm going to vote for Bush this time," he said. "The party has lost the leadership. We need young, new blood. Tsongas is talking about some of the pain and problems we have. I think we have to go back a little bit before we go forward."
 
Breaking a Glass Ceiling?
 At a fund-raising event organized in part by Mr. Yednak and some Wall Street friends and in part by Harry Poulakakos, the owner of Harry's restaurant in Hanover Square, and his Greek-American friends, Mr. Tsongas looked quite at home.
"Today is the day I became the breakthrough kid," the former Massachusetts Senator told about 200 investment executives and other supporters. "I'll no longer have that glass ceiling called regional appeal."
Mr. Tsongas was asked whether he felt that the ruling that allows him on the New York ballot was proper.
"People have the right to vote for me or against me," he said, adding that he did not think it was "an undue request."
"I don't think you can say to millions of people, 'Sorry, it didn't work out, you won't have a chance to vote for this person.' "
 
Holier Than Thou?
 Asked about the assertions by his rivals that he can be holier than thou, he said: "It depends on who thou is. Compared to most people, no."
Mr. Tsongas was talking like a front-runner and going after President Bush. He said that he had called the Democratic Congressional leaders, Speaker Thomas S. Foley of Washington and Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, and that they had agreed to have a lunch soon to try to find common Democratic ground in case Mr. Tsongas does become the nominee. In his campaigning, Mr. Tsongas has often criticized the Democratic leadership as being insensitive to the country. Yesterday, he focused on the White House.
"George Bush is a nice guy," he said. "I wouldn't mind if he were my kids' godfather. But as President he does not have the steel to give the necessary bad news on the economy. He is a product of his pollsters."
A group of New Aliance Party protesters picketed outside the restaurant, chanting: "Tsongas is an election cheat. Now he's going to feel the heat."
 
Where the Home Is
 Speaking to reporters after the fund-raising event, Mr. Tsongas said: "A funny thing happened on the way to oblivion. The message took hold."
"We were out-endorsed and outspent," he went on, "but the fact is that the message is taking root."
Asked if he felt at home on Wall Street, a strange place for a Democrat, Mr. Tsongas said: "My home is 80 Mansur Street in Lowell, Mass., and Lowell is a blue-collar community."
He said he was in the restaurant on Pearl Street, two blocks south of Wall Street, "because the restaurant owner is Greek."
But he did not apologize for being a Democrat who wants to attract Republicans. He said there were many "unhappy moderate Republicans" who are "thoughtful decent people who are pro-choice, who could find a home in the Democratic Party. If we don't frighten them away."
"To those Democrats who are into losing the White House, I have nothing to say to them," he said, adding that Democrats, Republicans, independents and vegetarians were all welcome to support his campaign.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Tsongas Hires Media Adviser
 WASHINGTON, March 3 (Special to The New York Times) -- Mr. Tsongas has hired a veteran Democratic consultant, Scott Miller, to direct his media campaign.
The addition of Mr. Miller seemed to reflect not so much displeasure with the campaign's current consultants as it did the growing demands of a fast-paced, multistate race.
"We are expanding the staff and the resources in our campaign as the campaign itself moves across the country," said Ed Jesser, a senior adviser to Mr. Tsongas. Mr. Jesser said the consultants who have produced Mr. Tsongas's current commercials, Fred Woods and Michael Shea, would continue to work for the campaign.
Mr. Miller, a former creative director at McCann-Erickson, has produced political and commercial advertisements. He has written commercials for clients as diverse as the Coca-Cola Company and Michael S. Dukakis, the former Governor of Massachusetts who was the 1988 Democratic nominee. He was a top adviser to Senator John Glenn of Ohio in his 1984 Presidential campaign.
Most recently, Mr. Miller has worked for corporate clients on public relations campaigns. He now operates his own firm in Connecticut.
In addition to Mr. Miller, he recently signed on Gerald Austin, who directed the Rev. Jesse Jackson's 1988 Presidential campaign, as an adviser.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: M A SCHAPIRO & CO INC (72%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); WOMEN (77%); RESTAURANTS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); 

PERSON: TSONGAS, PAUL E; DOWD, MAUREEN RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



126 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
THE KILLING OF A MOB BOSS
Salvatore Gravano, John Gotti's former underboss, gave a detailed account of the killing of the mob boss Paul Castellano and several other slayings that he said were ordered or authorized by John Gotti. For Mr. Gravano, who turned informer four months ago, it was his second day of testifying in the racketeering-murder trial of Mr. Gotti, who maintained a fixed smile as he stared at his former aide in the crowded, tightly guarded courtroom. A1. 

BUYER FOR AN EMPTY OFFICE TOWER
In a transaction that gives some indication of how weak the city's real estate market is and how hard the Dinkins administration will fight to retain jobs, Bertelsmann A.G., the world's second-largest media concern, announced that it had agreed to purchase a 44-story Times Square office tower that has been vacant since it was completed in 1990. B3.
 
CHILD ABUSE CITED IN 2 DEATHS
Two children -- a 5-year-old boy who lived in a shelter for the homeless and a 3-year-old girl who lived in a deteriorating building in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn -- died yesterday in the same hospital. Both were victims of child abuse, police officials said. B3.
 
The Dinkins administration tells city agencies to prepare for capital spending cuts. B2.
 
REGION
 
A NEW ROUND OF BORROWING
New York State will have to borrow at least $500 million to keep afloat the fund it uses to pay unemployment benefits, state labor officials announced. But they sought to assuage concerns about the impact of the announcement, contending that the Federal loans would insure that benefits would continue to be paid. B4.
 
NEW INSURANCE RULES IN NEW JERSEY
New Jersey plans to distribute sweeping new regulations this week that would bar the use of age, sex or marital status in setting automobile insurance rates. The new rules, which would take effect on Jan. 1, 1993, also play down the impact of geographical location on rate-setting and list the factors that companies should use in setting their rates. Insurance companies criticized the rules. B4.
 
PROSECUTORS SEEK D'AMATO RECORDS
Federal prosecutors in Washington have asked for Senator D'Amato's financial disclosure forms from the last six years -- the first known instance of the Senator's records being sought by Federal investigators. The investigators asked the Secretary of the Senate for copies of financial records filed since 1985 by Mr. D'Amato, who has been dogged by charges that he used his office to benefit family, friends and campaign contributors illegally. B4.
 
THE PEOPLE SPEAK OUT
With a procession of speakers from a Mayor to an cystic fibrosis patient, the appropriations committees of the Republican-controlled New Jersey Legislature convened the first of several public hearings on Governor Florio's proposed $15.7 billion budget. Most speakers appealed for more money or for the salvation of programs the Governor has proposed dropping. B4.
 
New York State announces plan to fight closing of General Motors plant. B4.
 
About New York B2
Neediest Cases B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BERTELSMANN AG (70%); NEW JERSEY LEGISLATURE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY LEGISLATURE (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MURDER (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); INSURANCE (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); CHILD ABUSE (72%); CHILDREN (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); APPROPRIATIONS (70%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (68%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (67%); HOMELESSNESS (66%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (65%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (63%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (63%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (63%); CYSTIC FIBROSIS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN GOTTI (79%); SALVATORE GRAVANO (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



127 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Japanese-Americans Face New Fears

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 3

 BODY:
Janice Higoshi is a little nervous as she prepares to escort her daughter and other members of a mostly Japanese-American Girl Scout troop to sell cookies this weekend.
She has heard the reports of increased harassment of Japanese-Americans, fueled by the anti-Japanese comments of some public figures, and she has followed the news of the recent killing not far from here of a Japanese businessman who had reported receiving a racist threat. 
 And the troop has already had a brush with racism when her daughter, Megan, and other scouts were selling cookies outside a suburban supermarket last year.
"This guy came out and we asked him if he would like to buy cookies," recalled Megan, who is now 13 years old. "He didn't really look at us in the eye and he just said, 'I only buy from American girls.' "
 
'But We Are Americans'
 "The kids turned to me with such bewildered looks on their faces," Mrs. Higoshi said. "One of the girls -- it just came out of her -- she said, 'But we are Americans.' "
While rude remarks and racism have always been part of life for minority members in America, community groups and government agencies say Japanese-Americans have become the targets of sharper and more frequent abuse in recent months.
The result has been a new sense of uneasiness among people like Mrs. Higoshi, a third-generation American. Some Japanese-Americans, like Scott Ito, who works for a marketing company, say they have avoided some public places and been tempted to deny their Japanese roots.
At a public meeting on Monday night in the city's Little Tokyo district, Michael Yamaki, a member of the Los Angeles Police Commission, addressed the spreading nervousness, telling his Japanese-American audience, "Really the bottom line is you have to stand up for yourself."
In a community already concerned over reports of verbal abuse, hate mail, graffiti and vandalism, fears have been heightened by the still unexplained killing on Feb. 23 of the Japanese businessman in Ventura County.
 
Hatred-Inspired Violence
 The killing occurred less than a week before the United States Civil Rights Commission issued a report describing a rise in "Japan bashing" across the nation and called hate-inspired violence against Asian-Americans "a serious national problem."
It noted the 1982 killing in Detroit of Vincent Chin, who was apparently taken for a Japanese, and the 1989 massacre of five Indochinese schoolchildren in Stockton, Calif. And it tied incidents like these to political posturing like a proposed "buy American" amendment to the Los Angeles city charter.
Mrs. Higoshi, a fourth-grade teacher who has several Japanese-American students in her classes, said: "I'm very concerned about what is happening right now, especially for the children. I'm finding that some of the kids are feeling a little intimidated by all of this."
When she asks her students to draw the flags of their ancestral homelands, for example, she said she notices that the Japanese-American children seem embarrassed to be drawing the Rising Sun flag that is often depicted these days opposite the Stars and Stripes as a symbol of America's economic foe.
During a recent public debate over whether to cancel a contract with the Sumitomo Corporation of Japan and "buy American" in the construction of a new commuter rail system for Los Angeles, a sixth-grade class in another school sent a packet of sometimes disturbing drawings to a County Supervisor, Gloria Molina.
While some of the drawings addressed the issue of preserving jobs for Americans, one showed a figure kicking a person with slanted eyes, two carried the slogan "Down with Japan," and one depicted a series of musical notes accompanied by the words, "Bomb, bomb, bomb."
These spreading signs of bias against Japan have sent a ripple of concern through the country's 850,000 Japanese-Americans.
Ken Inoue, a certified public accountant and third-generation American, said, "Ninety percent of my clients are American, and when we talk about international issues and Japan bashing, we're talking as Americans."
But last Dec. 7, on the anniversary of the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor, his wife, May, said, "I was in the supermarket and some people were trying to push their way ahead of me in line and I found myself thinking, 'Is it because they are blaming me for Pearl Harbor?' "
Such a question arouses painful memories for many Japanese-Americans, who have just marked the 50th anniversary of the incarceration of their parents and grandparents in relocation camps during World War II.
Mr. Ito, 25, a fourth-generation American who works for a marketing company, said his mother had warned him to "be cool and don't expose yourself as much and try not to say anything or do anything that would antagonize anybody."
As a result, he said: "I feel that I won't go out as much anymore because I feel a little bit apprehensive with remarks being made and all."
He added: "You feel like people are looking at you, and if someone asks you what you are, you might think of saying, 'Well, I'm Chinese,' so as not to cause any controversy."
Melvin Higoshi, recalling the supermarket incident involving his stepdaughter, Megan,, said of the man who refused to buy cookies from her: "He had no idea that she is about as American as any other child her age, American in a stereotyped sense. She plays softball, plays basketball, she's in Girl Scouts, she enjoys music; just what all the other girls do."
As for Megan, the girl said that people like that man "just don't know very much; they have no idea who we are or where we come from."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I was in the supermarket and some people were trying to push their way ahead of me in line and I found myself thinking, 'Is it because they are blaming me for Pearl Harbor?' " said May Inoue of Huntington Beach, Calif. She is shown with her 9-year-old daughter, Shannon. (Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MARKETING CO INC (66%); VENTURA COUNTY STAR (52%); LOS ANGELES POLICE COMMISSION (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES POLICE COMMISSION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: JAPANESE-AMERICANS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DISCRIMINATION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); RACIAL RELATIONS; ASIAN-AMERICANS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH ASIAN AMERICANS (93%); RACE & RACISM (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (88%); TRENDS (77%); VANDALISM (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); POLICE FORCES (65%); GRAFFITI (61%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; INOUE, KEN; HIGOSHI, JANICE JANICE HIGOSHI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



128 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Neediest Cases Fund Ends Best Campaign

BYLINE: By J. PEDER ZANE

 BODY:
In a year when many charities have struggled to meet fund-raising goals, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has completed the most successful campaign in its history.
The 80th annual appeal, which ended on Saturday, raised $5,083,550.81 for seven charities that help New York's poor, sick and disabled. That total topped the previous record, set last year, by $644,444. 
 "Achieving the $5 million level, despite the recession, was far beyond our dream when the drive began," said Arthur Gelb, president of The New York Times Foundation, which administers the fund. "The Neediest Cases Fund and the charities we assist are grateful to the readers of The Times for the loyal support which made this year's appeal such an outstanding success."
That success can be measured in other ways besides the final total. It can be measured by the fortitude of those who gave despite their own financial difficulties; by the compassion of those who doubled and tripled their gifts from previous years, or who gave for the first time because of the rising needs; and by the hope of children like Jacob Morvay of Larchmont, N.Y., who gave $2.20 he earned doing household chores.
 
Stories of Success
 The campaign's success can also be measured by the continuing help it has provided thousands of New Yorkers, like Ying L., who was forced to flee China after supporting the democracy protesters at Tiananmen Square. She was alone, broke and pregnant in November when she contacted one of the agencies supported by the Neediest Cases. Now she is the mother of a healthy baby boy, has an apartment in Queens and a job at a restaurant.
And there is David Gonzalez, whose sense of pride was restored with help from one of the charities supported by the Neediest Cases. After losing his job in 1989, Mr. Gonzalez suffered a two-year slide from middle-class comfort to living in a shelter supported by the Children's Aid Society. After his story was detailed in an article on the Neediest Cases, the Veterans Administration Hospital in Brooklyn offered him a job. Although his duties as a maintenance mechanic there are not as challenging as his old job fixing airplanes, he is thankful. "I was hopeless before," he said yesterday. "Now I'm happy."
Since it was founded in 1912 by Adolph S. Ochs, who was then publisher of The New York Times, the Neediest Cases Fund has raised money for the city's downtrodden. The Times covers all of the campaign's overhead so that every dollar collected can be passed on to the seven charities. The money provides many forms of relief, including food for the hungry, homes for the homeless and clothing for those without. All donations received after March 1 will be credited toward the 81st annual appeal, which will formally begin on Thanksgiving Day.
The success of this year's campaign was unexpected. Starting off on Thanksgiving Day with $16,000 less than the 1990-91 campaign, the appeal fell steadily behind, so that by Dec. 20 it was $115,000 below the level of the previous year. But from there the campaign took off. Contributions skyrocketed, and by Dec. 31 the appeal was propelled on its record-setting pace.
 
Results Called 'Remarkable'
 Fund-raisers are scratching their heads over that success. "Those results are remarkable," said Martin Grenzebach, chairman of the Trust for Philanthropy of the American Association of Fund-Raising Counsel. "Total charitable giving will probably be up 5 to 7 percent for 1991, but that's a far cry from your 15 percent increase."
But the heads of some of the charities supported by the Neediest Cases said timing was an important factor. David R. Jones, president of the Community Service Society of New York, noted that the appeal began just as people in New York and across the nation were turning their eyes from problems abroad to the lingering recession at home. This focus on the economy has been reinforced by a Presidential race in which little else has been discussed.
"For the past few months, the recession and poverty have been the story, the thing on everybody's mind," Mr. Jones said.
Most of the charities aided by the Neediest Cases reported below-average contributions for the first 11 months of 1991 and near-record response in the number of donations and amount of money raised during the holiday appeals in December.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES FOUNDATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES FOUNDATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND FUNDRAISING (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (66%); CHILD WELFARE (66%); RESTAURANTS (63%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%); VETERANS (50%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (50%); 

PERSON: ZANE, J PEDER DAVID GONZALEZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



129 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Big Borrowing Is Needed For Albany Jobless Fund

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 3

 BODY:
New York State will have to borrow at least $500 million to keep afloat the fund it uses to pay unemployment benefits, state labor officials announced today.
But state officials sought to assuage concerns about the impact of the announcement, contending that the loans from the Federal Government would assure that benefits would continue to be paid. 
 "The most important thing we want to get across is the fact that even though this fund is going insolvent, it will in no way interrupt payments of benefits to the unemployed," said Dominic Rotondi, the unemployment insurance director for the State Labor Department.
The state's unemployment rate jumped in January to its highest level in a decade, 9.1 percent, up from 7.8 percent the month before, according to statistics that the department released today. In New York City, the figure was 10.4 percent, up from 9.3 percent in December 1991.
 
Stark Contrast
 This latest grim fiscal news stands in stark contrast to 1989, when the benefits fund reached an all-time high of $3.2 billion and jobless levels were at a 17-year low. But now, with the fund paying out about two dollars in benefits for every dollar in taxes it collects from the employers contributing to it, there will be nothing in it by this fall.
"It will run dry under current projections, and that is for the simple reason that we are in a sustained recession with high unemployment levels," said Kathleen M. Do, a Labor Department spokeswoman.
The fund's problems were clearly brought on in part by a major increase in unemployment benefits that lawmakers, amid much fanfare, approved in 1989. The maximum weekly benefit, which was $180 at the time, making New York 34th among the 50 states, was raised to $245 and has climbed since then to $300.
But labor officials noted today that most unemployed people do not receive the maximum -- the average is about $190. And in any event, they said the dominant force in the fund's depletion was the recession and the sheer numbers of unemployed people, not the increase in benefits.
The number of unemployed people in the state in January was 769,000, about 164,000 higher than in the same period the year before.
 
Borrowing Planned
 To keep the fund in operation, the department plans to borrow at least $500 million from the Federal Government under a program intended to help states wither the costs of high unemployment. Five states, including Massachusetts and Connecticut, have already undertaken such borrowing, and several more are expected to do so in coming months, Ms. Do said.
Technically, this transaction is entirely separate from the state's own budget-making process, so that it will not add $500 million to the potential $4.5 billion deficit that state leaders are now seeking to close as they put together a new state budget.
But New York will be required to pay off the loan at 8 percent interest once the economy begins improving and the fund's health is restored, a cost that could add to employers' jobless taxes in future years. Lawmakers may also resort to raising tax rates on employers, or even lowering benefit levels, in a bid to pump up the fund's coffers.
The benefits fund ran out of money once before, during the recession in the mid-1970's, and the state had to borrow about $330 million to keep it in operation then.
The fund consists of taxes paid by private employers in New York State, who are charged according to an intricate formula that takes into account the number of people employed by the employer and the number it has laid off in recent years.
 
Seasonal Job Losses
 The 1.3 percent increase in the unemployment rate in a single month, charted in the figures released today, was unusually high. Thomas A. Rodick, deputy director of the Labor Department's Division of Research and Statistics, said it could be explained in part by seasonal job losses that almost always follow the December holidays.
But he said the increase was still so large that it also indicated that "labor market conditions" in the state "are still deteriorating." It also shows that the unemployment rate in New York -- as in other Northeastern states -- remains several points above the national average.
There was more gloom on another fiscal front today. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who has expressed optimism about getting a budget agreement with legislative leaders in advance of the April 1 statutory deadline, said today that he was "disappointed" and "concerned" about the progress of negotiations.
"As I've said for months, the only thing that stands in the way of a timely budget is the Legislature deciding," Mr. Cuomo told reporters at a news conference. "And that they have not yet decided to do."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (91%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (91%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); STATISTICS (69%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



130 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Media Group Makes a Deal For Building

BYLINE: By SARAH BARTLETT

 BODY:
In a transaction that gives some indication of the weakness of the city's real-estate market and how hard the Dinkins administration will fight to retain jobs, Bertelsmann A.G., the world's second-largest media concern, announced yesterday that it had agreed to buy a 44-story office tower in Times Square that had been vacant since it was completed in 1990.
The German-based company said it would consolidate its New York-based companies, which include RCA Records and the Bantam Doubleday Dell publishing group, into the building at 1540 Broadway, at the corner of West 45th Street, and forgo plans to move 500 employees to Chicago and Indianapolis. 
 At a news conference yesterday, Mayor David N. Dinkins announced a package of financial incentives to help facilitate the deal. He hailed the decision as a "huge boost for New York City as the international media center of the entire nation" and said it would be a catalyst to Times Square redevelopment, which the city has been trying to foster for more than 10 years.
Bertelsmann, which is second in size to Time-Warner Inc., said it was paying $119 million for the building, and expected to invest another $50 million or so in capital improvements to the office and retail complex. The purchase price is a steep drop from the $250 million mortgage that Citicorp and a group of 16 Japanese financial institutions hold on the building.
 
Indication of the Market
 Real-estate experts had been anxiously waiting to see what the final price for the property would be because it was one of the largest deals to be completed in the city in two years and would provide some indication of just how much value the real estate market had lost.
Still, because the building had been entirely empty, making it harder to market, and is in the Times Square area, where there are several nearly vacant buildings, real-estate experts said it was not fair to assume that all of midtown Manhattan real estate had fallen that much in price.
"You can't use what happened in one office building as a benchmark for the city," said Michael Giliberto, a real-estate analyst at Salomon Inc. The sleek glass tower, which was developed by Bruce Eichner in the late 1980's with the help of city tax abatements, was recently placed into bankruptcy protection as a first step toward enabling it to be transferred to Bertelsmann. Citicorp officials said yesterday that the bank held less than 30 percent of the mortgage, but it could not be learned yesterday how the rest of the mortgage was distributed.
To facilitate the transaction, the Dinkins administration put together a package of incentives worth $10.8 million. The package consists of exemptions on sales and a cap on any increase in taxes that would normally result from improvements made to the building.
 
Incentives and Commitments
 In exchange for the incentives, the city obtained the company's commitment not to move 500 jobs out of the city, and to keep its entire 1,750 work force here for 15 years. And in a new twist, Bertelsmann has agreed that $1 million of the amount it will save in sales taxes will be used to set up a fund to improve the Times Square area. The company has also said it would market at least 25,000 square feet of its building to small foreign companies interested in setting up a foothold in New York City but needing financial help.
There was some initial surprise among real-estate experts that the city would offer nearly $11 million to retain just 500 jobs belonging to a company that was not threatening to leave New York.
But it was Bertelsmann's commitment to the Times Square area and the prospect that it might be able to help the city lure other European companies to New York that seemed to win potential skeptics over. "We're investing in more than just 500 jobs," said Ruth W. Messinger, Manhattan borough president, who has often criticized excessive financial incentive packages. "This is a partner who can help us revive Times Square and become a cornerstone for international businesses in New York City."
Once Bertelsmann moves all its units into the building, it expects to occupy about two-thirds of the tower's one million square feet and will seek tenants for the rest. Since it will continue to hold the lease until the year 2000 on 11 1/2 floors of 666 Fifth Avenue, where its publishing units are now situated, it will also be looking for tenants for that space.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); TWX (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (68%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (68%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); INDIANA, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: BERTELSMANN AG BERTELSMANN AG (93%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); BANTAM DELL PUBLISHING GROUP (71%); TIME WARNER INC (68%); CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS HOLDINGS INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: BERTELSMANN AG

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE (NYC); MANHATTAN (NYC) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); INDIANA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (76%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); PUBLISHING (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (70%); TRENDS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); RETAILERS (65%); TAX LAW (60%); 

PERSON: BARTLETT, SARAH; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID N DINKINS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



131 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: A School for the Deaf That's Founded on Speech

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NORTHAMPTON, Mass.

 BODY:
Sandy Kobylarz and her husband were living with her parents in Manville, N.J., and renovating a house when her family's worst suspicions were confirmed. Their first child, a boy then 9 months old, had been born deaf.
But for Mrs. Kobylarz, the shock did not fully set in until months later, when the couple began searching for the right school for their son, Ryan. While visiting a school 30 minutes from her home that purported to teach both sign language and speech, she noticed that the classrooms seemed abnormally quiet. 
 "That really kind of floored me," Mrs. Kobylarz said. "Even in the upper schools there wasn't talking going on, and I realized I really wanted Ryan to have the choice to speak."
 
No Sign Language
 So the Kobylarzs left their New Jersey roots and moved to a small town in western Massachusetts so that their son could enroll in the Clarke School for the Deaf, a small private institution across the street from Smith College in Northampton. Clarke is one of three schools in the country that teaches deaf children to read and speak using only hearing aids and lip-reading. No sign language is taught; students concentrate fully on learning speech.
For deaf children, learning to speak is almost a Herculean task, much harder than learning to sign, their parents acknowledge. But parents at Clarke School say they chose that more difficult path believing that it would ultimately be easier for their children to live independently as adults. And they are doing so despite a movement to recognize American Sign Language as the primary method of deaf education.
At Clarke, teachers wear amplifiers that broadcast their voices over a radio frequency to children wearing hearing aids. Those who are completely deaf learn to lip read and interpret other vibrations. Tuition is steep: $15,000 annually for day students and $27,000 for boarders, although scholarships are available.
Founded 125 years ago by Gardiner Greene Hubbard, father-in-law to Alexander Graham Bell, Clarke has traditional been a boarding school. But for the last two years, day students have outnumbered boarders among the 110 students enrolled as more families with deaf children have moved to Northampton.
 
Frustrated in Public School
 "It was a lot of work and we're starting over again, but it was worth it," said Leslie Meli, who spent 11 months apart from her husband, a cable television executive who stayed behind in Locust Valley, L.I., until landing a job in Boston recently. The Melis have two deaf children enrolled in Clarke. A third, who has a less serious hearing impairment, attends public school in Northampton.
The Melis moved when it became clear that their oldest child, John, now 9 years old, had become frustrated after two years in a public school special education program for the hearing-impaired on Long Island. "He didn't have the words to ask questions," Mrs. Meli said. "He couldn't describe things. He had to draw them." Now he can speak to his grandparents, who do not know sign language, she said.
Cindy Higginbotham felt so strongly about teaching her daughter to speak that she moved to Northampton in September, even though her husband had to stay behind in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., because of his job. Her daughter, Lindsey, who is 5 years old, lost all her hearing by age 2. Just before entering Clarke's preschool, she received a cochlear (pronounced COKE-lee-er) implant last summer, in which an electronic device is surgically inserted into the ear to replicate sound signals.
Because the new technology requires intensive follow-up work with the children to teach them to interpret the sounds, the Higginbothams chose Clarke for the individual attention it provided.
 
Other Parents Help
 Although it is hard living without her husband, Mrs. Higginbotham said a support group for new Clarke parents had eased the transition. "They just took us in and made us a part of their family right away," she said, adding that Lindsey was happy and making progress.
Dennis Gjerdingen, the school president, said the number of parents moving from out of state ballooned during the 80's. "We've had as many as 19 families move in one year," he said. But those numbers have declined recently because of the recession, as families find themselves unable to afford the tuition.
The Clarke curriculum is grueling for the children, who must learn not only their ABC's but the skills to speak them at the same time, said Alan Marvelli, the acting headmaster. Hearing children have years of listening and speaking before they learn to read.
For this reason, schooling goes more slowly at Clarke. The school is divided into lower, middle and upper schools instead of grade levels. At age 17, graduates are usually ready to be "mainstreamed" into a high school of their choice, usually at the ninth- or 10th-grade level.
 
Speech or Signing?
 Poor performance among the hearing-impaired children has kicked off a vigorous debate among teachers of the deaf about which of three methods is best -- signing, speech alone or a combination of the two, the so-called total communication method.
The two dominant teaching methods since the 1950's, speech and total communication, have come under fire. Standardized tests have shown that the average hearing-impaired 18-year-old reads at a third- or fourth-grade level, said Arthur Schildroth, a researcher at the Center for Assessment and Demographic Studies at Gallaudet College in Washington.
Teaching speech to deaf children "works for only a handful of children," said Robert Johnson, chairman of the linguistics department at Gallaudet and co-author of "Unlocking the Curriculum," a 1989 paper credited with prompting the current debate over how to teach the deaf.
"Most deaf people don't learn to speak very well," said Mr. Johnson, who advocates teaching American Sign Language before English or speech. Signing, he said, "doesn't require any intervention, anything except getting them in contact with people who use it, and it can be acquired by age 5." So far, though, teaching signing as soon as children are identified as deaf is being attempted only experimentally, he said.
While Mr. Johnson said the total communication method is an improvement over methods that rely primarily on speaking, it, too, has failed to raise achievement test scores. Teachers speak and use a different sign language, one designed to replicate each English word.
"When hearing people do this, they pay attention to what they are saying and assume the sign is fine," Mr. Johnson said. "But usually the sign portion ends up being very incomplete," hampering a deaf child's ability to learn language.
American Sign Language is not a transliteration of English words but an entirely separate language that can be learned on its own.
But to parents at Clarke, teaching children to depend on sign language means shutting the door on any life outside a small deaf community.
"I feel it's a hearing world and there's not many people who know sign language," said Jean Thibodeau, who moved to Northampton from Newtown, Conn., with her deaf son, Justin, now 7 years old. "No one would really understand him."
On a recent evening, Justin ordered chocolate ice cream all by himself at a Friendly's restaurant. The person behind the counter understood him perfectly.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Priscilla Pike, a teacher at the Clarke School for the Deaf in Northampton, Mass., using an amplification system to communicate with John Meli, second from left, 9 years old. The school is one of three schools in the country that teaches deaf children to read and speak using only hearing aids and lip-reading. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLARKE SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF CLARKE SCHOOL (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLARKE SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEAFNESS DEAFNESS (93%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HEARING AIDS (89%); FAMILY (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); TUITION FEES (76%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



132 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Even in the Ivy League, Cutbacks Are the Rule

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
With their accumulated power and privilege, the eight institutions of the Ivy League have long stood apart from most other colleges and universities in the United States. But in these economically troubling times, the Ivies find themselves under the same sort of financial pressures as the smallest community college or state-run university.
The University of Pennsylvania is scrambling to stop the state government from cutting nearly $40 million in state aid. Yale University is saddled with an $8.8 million budget shortfall. Columbia is looking at a deficit of at least $15 million for next year. And Harvard University, which usually does not release budget figures until months after its fiscal year ends, has disclosed that it finished the last academic year with a deficit of $41.9 million, the first shortfall in Cambridge since 1974. 
 The remaining members of the Ivy League -- Brown, Cornell, Princeton and Dartmouth College -- expect to end this year with their budgets balanced, but to do so they have had to change the way they do business.
"This is a rather difficult time for universities," said Robert H. Scott, vice president for finance at Harvard University. "We're going to have to find ways to be smarter, and we're going to have to try to do a little bit more with a little bit less."
 
Trouble on All Sides
 The same hardships are squeezing all the elite institutions, though some have been hurt more than others. The Federal Government has cut back its support of university research. And the recession has lowered returns on university endowments.
Employee health care benefits have increased substantially, universities must spend more on student financial aid, and many aging buildings on campuses are showing their age and must be repaired.
To keep this all in perspective, the Ivy League is not in the fire-sale position of the nearly bankrupt University of Bridgeport. Each of the eight enjoys the comfort of a substantial endowment -- a pile of invested money that can throw off enough unearned income to tide over a school in most budget problems.
For instance, Harvard's announced shortfall of $41.9 million amounts to only 3.5 percent of its $1.2 billion overall operating budget. The gap comes in part because the university has changed its accounting methods and now includes its anticipated building-maintenance costs -- $50 million a year -- in its overall budget instead of in a separate account. But costs have risen for most items, and income has not kept pace.
 
The Money Makes Money
 Mr. Scott said the university has been trying for six years to control administrative costs. But the greatest help will come from Harvard's $4.7 billion endowment. He said the endowment brought Harvard $208 million last year.
A sense is growing among the Ivy institutions that, after decades of expansion and freewheeling growth, they may have grown too large to support themselves. To complicate matters, the limited assistance that private universities get from state governments is threatened.
New York and Pennsylvania have traditionally supported private universities because those institutions once provided practically all higher education opportunities. But in the last few years, New York has been whittling away at that assistance, called Bundy Aid. Columbia has already lost $7 million of the $12 million a year it used to receive. And in Pennsylvania, Gov. Robert P. Casey wants to cut $38 million in support from the University of Pennsylvania's 1992-1993 operating budget.
"Clearly, we cannot take $38 million out of the budget of this university in one fell swoop and maintain the quality of the academic program," said Marna C. Whittington, executive vice president of the University of Pennsylvania.
The state money supports Penn's veterinary school, the only one in Pennsylvania, as well as the medical and dental schools and student aid.
Yale, Princeton, Columbia and others negotiated new labor contracts this year. And all have had to deal with tuition and fees that are already so high -- more than $20,000 a year -- that raising them runs the risk of turning away students.
Unable to bring in enough additional money, the universities have had to cut expenses. Yale tried to make the most severe retrenchment when a special committee recommended that the faculty be cut, that whole academic departments, including linguistics, be eliminated and that several others, including sociology, be reduced. The cuts are being considered by the university administration.
 
But Where to Cut?
 Columbia's officials, who once faced a potential $50 million deficit for the 1992-1993 year, say they have chopped that down to $15 million, with a similar loss projected for the following year. The gap will be covered by money from the endowment, which is supposed to buy the university time to develop a long range plan to get its budget in line.
But cuts are not easy to make, as Columbia discovered when a proposal was made to scale back the university's policy of providing all the financial aid incoming students need. Students protested, blockading faculty and administrators inside a building for a short time. Two weeks later, faculty, students and alumni cobbled a plan to raise enough money to save the full-need policy for at least one more year.
Brown, Cornell and Dartmouth have had to make cuts, mostly in non-academic areas. Princeton seems to have had the easiest time of it, but that is partly because it had to slash its budget three years ago to stem a recurring deficit.
Princeton is now in comparatively good shape. It has been shielded from changes in the way the Federal Government pays for research because, unlike other schools, Princeton has been charging the Government less than it was entitled to in reimbursements, said Richard R. Spies, vice president for finance and administration. "We are probably less dramatically affected than other place, but we're still affected," Mr. Spies said.


GRAPHIC: Figures for the 1991-1992 school year.

 	 	 	 				Under-		Operating	Total	graduate		budget	enrollment	enrollment	 	 	 	 	Brown University	$252 million	7,297	5,472	Columbia University	$905 million	19,300	5,500	Cornell University	$1.1 billion	18,851	12,585	Dartmouth College	$250 millionh	5,299	4,275	Harvard University	1.2 billion*	18,273	6,677	U. of Pennsylvania	$1.4 billion	22,174	11,311	Princeton University	$453 million	6,412	4,538	Yale University	$799 million	10,743	5,179	
Chart: "Ivy League Yearbook"
 *1990-1991 budget
 
(Source: Each university)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: IVY LEAGUE YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (83%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (83%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (83%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (83%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: IVY LEAGUE HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (83%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (83%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (83%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (83%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (63%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (50%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY MICHAEL MCMAHON (68%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



133 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Reprieve Sought for Doomed Tarrytown Plant

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NORTH TARRYTOWN, N.Y., March 3

 BODY:
One week after the General Motors Corporation announced a plan to close its assembly plant here, New York State today announced a counteroffensive, pledging to do all it could to change the auto maker's mind.
In Albany, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo said he had appointed government, business and labor officials to a task force to explore financial incentives and other inducements to keep G.M. in Westchester County. The task force, he said, would also examine new ways G.M. could use the plant as well as identify "new uses and users" should G.M. refuse to reconsider. 
 "More than 3,400 workers stand to lose their jobs if G.M. Tarrytown closes," Governor Cuomo said. "G.M.'s plan would deal a significant blow to Westchester County's economy. We will do everything we can do to persuade G.M. to stay in Tarrytown or find other uses for the plant that will minimize the loss of jobs in the area."
Vincent Tese, the state's Director of Economic Development, met this morning with union leaders and the manager of the assembly plant. Afterward, at a news conference, he said financial incentives might include cuts in utility costs and property taxes.
But union officials said privately they doubted the state's efforts would sway G.M., given the company's huge losses and the state of the national economy.
 
 
Company Stands By Decision
 General Motors, which posted a $4.45 billion loss for 1991, said last week that its plan to close 21 plants worldwide over several years -- including the one here in the summer of 1995 -- was irreversible. It reiterated that stand today, said Mr. Tese, who will head the task force. Still, he said, "We're going to fight with everything we have."
Other task force members include United States Representative Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of Westchester; Daniel Walsh, president of the New York State Business Council; Philip Wheeler, a regional director for the United Auto Workers; Frank Rey, the Mayor of North Tarrytown, and Andrew P. O'Rourke, the Westchester County Executive.
General Motors had threatened to close the plant seven years ago but opted to keep it open after receiving a $140-million package of inducements from state, county and local governments. That package included heightening bridges along the Hudson River, allowing enough clearance for the plant's mini-vans to be transported by train. In exchange, the company upgraded the plant and agreed to keep it open until 1995.
While some elected officials called the planned closing a slap in the face in light of previous government largesse, state officials have shied away from using the word betrayal.
"There's a sense of disappointment and urgency," said Harold Holzer, executive vice president for public affairs of the state's Urban Development Corporation. "But it's difficult to feel betrayed when there are 21,000 other G.M. workers in New York State."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We're going to fight with everything we have," said Vincent Tese, the state's Director of Economic Development, about efforts to keep the General Motors plant in North Tarrytown, N.Y., open. (Suzanne DeChillo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); TARRYTOWN (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LAYOFFS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); COUNTIES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TRENDS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); CITIES (61%); 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W; TESE, VINCENT (DIR); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) NITA M LOWEY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



134 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1804 words

HEADLINE: Convenience In the Kitchen: The Way Mama Used to Heat

SERIES: Resetting the Table: The Changing American Meal -- Second of Four Articles.

BYLINE: By MOLLY O'NEILL

 BODY:
THE box for Quaker Instant Oatmeal seemed to have everything a modern package should have. It was large, easy-to-handle and could be opened with a zip. It pictured a bowl of oatmeal, unembellished and sharply focused, an image that bleated "easy" as insistently as a microwave's timer beeps "ready."
But Primo Angeli, a package designer in San Francisco, knew something was missing, something he said he believes consumers want. Food packages -- and maybe the food they contain -- have hit the outer limits of convenience, he said. Technology has brought America the "nanosecond meal," which can be bought, carried, cooked and consumed from its own disposable package. But with the technology to dine a la George Jetson, even time-pressured Americans still want their fingers in the pot. 
 "The slam-dunk dinner makes them feel obsolete," said Mr. Angeli. "They need to see that their personal touch is still important." So he redesigned the instant oatmeal package with a touch of what he calls "human reality." He added a wisp of steam to the bowl of oatmeal pictured on the problem box, a signal that he says is "active, reassuring, real."
The food industry is all too familiar with the love-hate relationship between American consumers and convenience food. For a moment in the mid-80's, it seemed that the millions of time-starved family cooks would let industry provide dinner. The number of homes with a microwave oven -- envisioned as the appliance that would bring fast food and convenience products into the home, liberating cooks -- grew from 19 percent in 1980 to more than 80 percent in 1990, said Harry Rubbright, president of the International Microwave Power Institute in Clifton, Va.
But even as consumers strained against the pressures of time, they shied away from the barrage of microwaveable meals that were created for the new appliance. "It was a big disappointment to the food industry," Mr. Rubbright said. "People want the gratification of preparing at least some part of the meal."
Component meals, which grocery industry analysts say are the fastest growing segment of the market, give the hands-on satisfaction. These portioned and pre-cooked entrees, which are prepared both by food manufacturers and local grocers, are kits for meals that the home cook assembles or finishes.
Instead of a pizza, for instance, the Contadina Company offers a prebaked crust accompanied by a pouch of sauce and another of cheese; the cook assembles the pizza at home. Other manufacturers offer portioned pasta sauces that can be microwaved and served on noodles that the home cook prepares. Chicken producers sell everything from Cajun to Provencal dinners that the cook embellishes with vegetables or rice.
Food kits are recent and have not been accurately tracked. But industry analysts agree with Karen Brown, a vice president of the Food Marketing Institute, a trade group in Washington, who says dinner kits "struck a very deep chord with consumers and are proliferating like crazy."
That chord may be one of guilt and ambivalence. As more women have taken jobs in the last two decades, work demands increasingly nibbled away at what Juliet Schor, professor of economics at Harvard called time-intensive great-mom activities. .
Generally, "every additional hour women work in the marketplace takes a half hour from time they spend on housework," said Dr. Schor, author of "The Overworked American" (Basic Books, 1992). Men pick up part of the slack, she said, but dinner is still mainly women's work.
"No time to cook" has become a familiar cry. Dr. Schor calculates that Americans are working 158 more hours a year than they did 20 years ago, and he said working mothers 18 to 39 years old are hit hardest, averaging 241 more hours a year. Fathers in that age group are working 189 more hours a year.
Whether from perception or reality, consumers feel caught in a time vise. In marketing survey after marketing survey, they consistently ask for food that takes less time to cook.
"If we develop a product that takes 10 minutes to cook, that's too long," said Betty Cronin, director of the Campbell Microwave Institute, the food company's product development center in Camden, N.J. "They want no-brainer dinners that they can cook in under six minutes."
At the same time, Americans are loath to give up the image of cooking. Home kitchens didn't get smaller as the family seemed to spend less time cooking, and eating, together. In fact, the size of kitchens has increased steadily in the last five years, according to studies by the American Kitchen and Bath Association, a trade group in Hackettstown, N.J.
Dr. Susan Strasser, a professor of history at George Washington University and author of "Satisfaction Guaranteed," (Pantheon, 1989), a history of mass marketing, said, "American women are deeply ambivalent about abandoning the kitchen." Women shoppers in New York echoed her observation. As she chose Contadina's pizza kit for $7.49 over a pre-assembled pizza, for $4.49, Maria Ruggeria, a 41-year-old working mother of two, said, "I feel I should cook for my family."
In interviews with 50 working couples, Arlie Hochschild, a sociology professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and author of "The Second Shift: Working Parents and the Revolution at Home" (Avon, 1991), found that most two-job couples can curtail cleaning or laundry more easily than dinner duties. "Eating is a very emotional issue and women are less willing than men to reduce cooking time," she said.
Working mothers show little hesitation about paying premium prices for food products that promise to save even small amounts of time. To save less than a minute using a can opener, many will pay an average of 10 percent more for flip-top cans. "Pull a Fast One," advises one advertisement. Eighty-one percent of working mothers surveyed in January 1991 said such convenience products merit a higher price tag. The mail survey of 2,106 households nationwide was conducted for Parade magazine by Mark Clements Research.
Working women value convenience to such an extent that they don't seem fazed when the food manufacturers "pull a fast one." Convenience foods are after packed in boxes much larger than their weight requires in order to appear to cost the same as, or less than, larger amounts of old-fashioned products.
For example, Uncle Ben's pre-cooked rice, which cooks in five minutes, costs about $1.82 a pound. Uncle Ben's converted rice takes 20 minutes to cook and costs $1.10 a pound. The shorter cooking time costs about 72 cents. "My time is more valuable than that," said Becky Sanders, a 27-year-old working mother who chose the quick-cooking rice at a Kroeger's in Cincinnati one day last month.
As they appeal to the working mother's conflict between real time constraints and residual urges toward cooking, food manufacturers present time-thriftiness as a smart woman's smart choice. Hunt's "Great American Cooks" campaign for its tomato sauce pictures a family at leisure on the beach. It reads: "This is Karen Durrett. Former securities analyst. 3 kids, 100 enthusiasms. She uses Hunt's."
But the leisure time promised by making time-saving choices is rarely realized. Technological innovations, from running water to gas stoves, have promised to reduce housekeeping time, said Ruth Schwartz Cowen, who wrote "More Work for Mother" (Basic Books, 1983). "But innovation has been coupled with rising standards of living that took up more time to maintain," she said.
The great exception, Dr. Cowen said, is the microwave oven, "the single appliance that saves substantial time." Nevertheless, since the microwave became a standard appliance the amount of time spent in meal preparation has decreased less than any other category of housekeeping activity, according to John Robinson, a professor at the University of Maryland and director of the Americans' Use of Time Project.
In 1975, Dr. Robinson said, women spent just over an hour a day cooking; in 1985, they spent just under an hour. The Parade magazine survey found that figure has remained stable at 57 minutes for preparing dinner. Most women interviewed said they would like to spend half that time.
But instead of zapping ready-made meals and sharply reducing meal preparation time, Americans are popping corn. According to a 1990 "Microwave Product Report," published by Arbitron/SAMI, a research group, in the year ending March 23, 1990, Americans spent $265 million on microwave frozen dinners and $456.2 million on microwave popcorn.
Mr. Rubbright, of the International Microwave Power Institute, blames microwave technology. "We've had a problem with uneven cooking," he said, "so women have been hesitant to trust the ovens to cook dinners." Miss Cronin, at the Campbell Microwave Institute, agrees and adds that microwave ovens that brown food are already being tested. Others say the correction needed is cultural, not technical, and it, too, is under way.
"The current generation of cooks grew up with conventional stoves and the rhythm of life that went with them," said George Rosenbaum, chief executive of Leo J. Shapiro & Associates, a market research group in Chicago. "At some level they are willing to inconvenience themselves to maintain an image of that life."
Wisps of steam on an oatmeal box speak to this audience. And so do pictures of "nostalgic dishes," said Barry Seelig, president of Apple Design Source, a packaging designer in New York. He said that "inferring that the cook adds something of themselves to the dish adds value to the package right now."
The current generation of shoppers and cooks grew up believing that a personal touch enhanced dinner. But the next generation is growing differently. "We're growing a generation of cooks who will view prepared, microwaveable food as the norm," Mr. Rosenbaum said. "Food that requires conventional cooking will be perplexing and daunting."
"Food of the Future," a permanent exhibition for children at the Carnegie Science Center in Pittsburgh, unveiled a world of kitchenless homes, computer access to grocery stores and public spaces lined with meal vending machines and communal microwaves when it opened last fall. Tracy Youngman, a 31-year-old lawyer, found the future vision scary and depersonalized. "When will people talk to each other?" she asked.
Her daughter, Jennifer, 7, was enamored of this future vision. "No dishes, and whatever you want when you want it," she said.
Next Wednesday: Ethnic diversification in the food industry.
 
 
The Series So Far
 THE first article of this series, which appeared on Feb. 26, described the war of words between the advocates of good health and the advocates of food-for-pleasure, and the confusion of consumers caught between the two.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Who Zaps It?"
 
Top five Uses of Microwave Ovens
as a % of microwave owners
 
Reheating: 93%
Warming: 79
Defrosting: 75
Making popcorn: 74
Heating frozen foods: 63
 
Top Five Microwave Products
as a % of microwave owners
 
Popcorn
Women: 74%
Men: 68%
 
Frozen entrees
Women: 56
Men: 46
 
Frozen vegetables
Women: 45
Men: 35
 
Cookware
Women: 40
Men: 26
 
Frozen pizzas
Women: 28
Men: 26
 
(Based on a mall survey conducted by Mark Clements Research for Parade magazine in 1991. Questionnaires were mailed to 3,450 adults who had previously agreed to be part of a nationwide panel. From that group, 2,106 reponded.) (pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; DIET AND NUTRITION; FOOD; SURVEYS AND SERIES BREAKFAST CEREAL (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (89%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (78%); CHEESE (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); FOOD MFG (68%); NUTRITION (60%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); 

PERSON: O'NEILL, MOLLY JULIET SCHOR (65%); PRIMO ANGELI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



135 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Living Desk

LENGTH: 2218 words

HEADLINE: Catering to the Necessities Of Fashionably Frugal Dinners

BYLINE: By TRISH HALL

 BODY:
LIKE psychologists and bartenders and cab drivers, caterers get into intimate conversations with virtual strangers. They find out how people see themselves and how they want to be seen.
And, these days, they hear the same sentiment again and again: extravagance is out. 
 It's embarrassing. Or it's unaffordable. People who have money don't want to look as though they do; people who don't have money still want to entertain and have fun, but they can't pay for big fancy events.
"People are not interested in pretentious entertaining," said Jon Gilman, owner of Taste Caterers in New York. "A caterer's job nowadays is to nurture rather than dazzle."
Other caterers see the same change. "It can't be anything that screams of money," said Susan Holland, owner of a New York catering company that bears her name. "It needs to be beautiful and it needs to be delicious, but it doesn't need to show off."
Caterers say the move toward simplicity has grown out of necessity during the recession, and now simplicity is becoming something people prefer.
"They want to entertain, and they want to be creative, on a lower budget," said Pamela Morgan, owner of Flavors, another New York caterer.
Whether a meal is cooked at home or catered, the demise of pretension makes it easy to have parties and offer affordable food.
A dinner party can be created at home for less than $10 a person and still have the flourishes that distinguish it from your everyday meal.
Caterers, of course, cost more. But with the emphasis on saving money, they, too, have become sharply attuned to cutting costs without compromising a party -- and their tricks can be used in preparing parties at home, as well.
They use pasta, beans and less expensive cuts of meat. They are serving more peasantlike entrees, like paella and osso bucco, and ethnic foods like Thai dishes that wouldn't have been considered fancy enough just a few years ago.
Liz Neumark, owner of the caterering concern Great Performances, said she offered options to help people save: hiring fewer waiters, using less expensive ingredients, setting out food at cocktail parties, rather than passing it, or piggybacking onto another party with the same menu to cut labor costs.
Caterers say they can't compete if they don't offer lower prices. "A four-course veal dinner that cost $85 a few years ago better be under $60 now," said Sandy Sobel, director of catering sales for Restaurant Associates in New York.
Ron Paul, who owns a charcuterie, a restaurant and a catering business in Portland, Ore., said that the time of day has a big effect on the cost of a party. "Does this need to be a dinner party?" Mr. Paul said. "Or can it be a stand-up cocktail party?"
Large platters at cocktail parties save money because the guests essentially do the work of assembling pieces of food. Mr. Paul heaps the platters with cheese, pates and roasted vegetables. He also looks for unusual regional wines, which offer two benefits: guests don't know what they cost and are excited to see something new.
Sascha Wolhandler, a caterer who owns Sascha's in Baltimore, created some new services last September geared toward these frugal times. Some meals can simply be picked up by the customer; some are delivered on platters, so no serving staff is required.
Cocktail parties, rather than featuring individually prepared foods like empanadas -- meat or vegetable pies -- include large items that are faster to make, like a Mexican torte with layers of guacamole, salsa, and beans.
People creating parties at home can use the same tricks. Roasted and stewed dishes may take more time, but they aren't labor-intensive and are prepared well in advance, which cuts down on stress and exhaustion. Homier food is often cheaper.
Desserts can be simple, liked baked apples and pears topped with ice cream, or old-fashioned rice pudding or bread pudding.
The popularity of 1950's and 60's "retro food" in restaurants makes it stylish to serve old favorites at home. Ms. Wolhandler said the first appetizer she learned to make, caviar pie, is still one of the most popular.
Although it is filled with the cholesterol-laden ingredients people say they don't eat, they seem to inhale it when they get a chance. To make it, put a thick layer of egg salad in the bottom of a pie pan, then a thinner layer of cream cheese mixed with a pulverized red onion, and finally a layer of very cheap caviar, the kind that costs $7 a jar. Serve with crackers.
Regardless of the menu, it is the little, often inexpensive things that set a meal apart. Robert Cacciola, executive chef at the Susan Holland Company, uses accessories to dress up a table: little bowls of condiments like grated cheese or torn basil leaves or ground pepper.
Fruit purees used with ice cream are simple to make, but they have a strong visual effect.
"All you do is stick some raspberries in a blender and everyone goes 'Oooh, oooh,' " said Carla Ruben, owner of Creative Edge Parties, a New York caterer. Even a single piece of mint on a dessert dish says a meal is special.
 
Choices for the Cost-Wary <HE
 Three easy-to-make meals that cost less than $10 a person were created from suggestions and recipes offered by caterers. Although some dishes take a long time to cook, the food spends much of that time on the stove, with little effort required.
To keep costs down, be flexible in planning a meal. Make side dishes from inexpensive things like onions and potatoes. Sweet potatoes boiled and then pureed with a little milk, for instance, are healthy and colorful. If you like, expensive or unusual ingredients can be used in small quantities, to distinguish the meals.
The first meal, good for an end-of-winter, not-yet-warm night, includes a green salad with small slices of toasted French bread topped with melted blue cheese; a leg of lamb, which costs less than $3 a serving; mashed white beans; sauteed broccoli rape; mounds of onions, cooked slowly in water, butter and balsamic vinegar, and, finally, mint chocolate chip ice cream and cookies.
The second meal, hearty but light in color, includes a green salad, white-bean vegetarian chili; a pilaf of barley, wild rice, dried cranberry and pignoli nuts; a sourdough baguette (corn bread would have been good, too) and poached pears topped with ice cream (not the most expensive kind) and drizzled with a little chocolate sauce.
The third meal, good for a spring lunch or supper, includes a salad of long Chinese green beans, red pepper, water chestnuts and duck (chicken could be used), rice noodles dressed in a peanut sauce, fresh pineapple and almond cookies.
A good predinner nibble with almost any meal is olivada, an olive paste, served with crackers or bread.
Here are recipes for some of the less familiar dishes.
 
White-Bean Chili
(Adapted from Susan Holland Company)
Total time: 2 hours and 30 minutes, plus 6 hours for soaking beans
 
2 1/2 cups white beans, like a mixture of great northerns, cannellini and limas
4 large yellow onions
4 carrots
4 ribs celery
3 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons garlic
1 jalapeno pepper
 1/2 bunch parsley
3 quarts vegetable stock (see recipe)
6 sprigs fresh thyme
1 bay leaf
1 tablespoon cumin seed
1 tablespoon black pepper or to taste
2 tablespoons ground cumin
1 bunch cilantro
1 tablespoon fresh oregano leaves
Salt to taste.
 1. Soak the beans for six hours or overnight. Drain and reserve.
2. Peel and dice onions and carrots. Trim and dice celery.
3. Heat oil in a large pot. Add onions, carrots and celery and saute until soft.
4. While the vegetables are cooking, peel and mince garlic. Add to pan and saute for two minutes.
5. Using rubber gloves or covering hands with plastic bags, clean seeds and stem from jalapeno and dice. Chop parsley.
6. Add beans to pot and toss for one minute. Add jalapeno, parsley, vegetable stock, thyme, bay leaf, cumin seed and black pepper. Bring to a simmer. Add cumin. Cook slowly for 90 minutes, or until desired consistency is reached.
7. Chop cilantro and pull oregano leaves from stems. Add salt, pepper, cilantro and oregano.
8. Remove from heat and let cool slightly. Remove bay leaf.
Yield: 6 servings.
 
Vegetable Stock
Total time: 4 hours, 30 minutes
 
6 large yellow onions
6 carrots
1 bunch celery
2 parsnips
4 cloves garlic
2 tablespoons olive oil
6 medium plum tomatoes
1 bay leaf
6 sprigs fresh thyme
10 sprigs parsley
1 tablespoon freshly ground pepper.
1. Preheat oven to 450 degrees.
2. Peel onions and cut in chunks. Peel carrots and cut in large rounds. Trim celery and chop in one-inch pieces. Peel parsnips and cut in large rounds. Peel garlic and mince. Chop tomatoes.
3. Toss vegetables and garlic with oil and spread on a baking pan. Put in oven and roast for about an hour or until nicely browned. Stir occasionally to release steam.
4. Remove vegetables from oven, place in large, deep pot, add water to cover, add herbs and pepper.
5. Simmer for three hours. Cool and strain.
Yield: About 4 quarts.
 
Wild Rice and Barley Pilaf
(Adapted from Taste Caterers)
Total time: 50 minutes
 
5 cups water
 1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup wild rice
 1/2 cup pearl barley
 1/4 cup dried cranberries, softened in 1 cup hot water
 1/2 cup toasted pine nuts
1 teaspoon safflower or canola oil
 1/2 teaspoon juice of fresh lemon
Fresh thyme
Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste.
 1. Bring three cups of the water to boil, add salt and wild rice. Lower heat and simmer, covered, for about 45 minutes or until water is absorbed.
2. In another pot, bring the remaining water to boil and add barley. Lower heat and simmer for 30 minutes or until tender.
3. Drain the cranberries.
4. Mix together the rice, barley, cranberries, pine nuts, oil and lemon. Season with thyme, salt, and pepper.
Yield: 6 servings.
 
Asian Duck Salad
(Adapted from Taste Caterers)
Total time: 45 minutes
 
1 roasted duck or chicken
 1/2 teaspoon salt
1 bunch Chinese long green beans
 1/2 pound fresh or canned water chestnuts
2 mangoes
2 scallions
1 red pepper
Juice of 3 limes
 1/3 cup peanut oil
1 tablespoon fresh chopped ginger root
Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste.
 1. Remove duck or chicken meat from bones and shred.
2. Trim green beans, cut into three-inch lengths.
3. Fill a large pot with water and bring to boil. Add 1/2 teaspoon salt and green beans and cook about five minutes. Drain and rinse in cold water.
4. Peel and halve water chestnuts. Peel and dice mangoes. Chop the scallions. Remove seeds and ribs from pepper and cut into thin strips.
5. In a large bowl, mix lime juice with oil. Add mango and ginger root. Mix, and add the meat, beans, water chestnuts, scallions and peppers. Mix gently. Season with salt and pepper. Arrange on a large platter.
Yield: 6 Servings.
 
Peanut and Cilantro Noodle Salad
(Adapted from Taste Caterers)
Total time: 20 minutes
 
1 one-pound package of thick Chinese rice noodles
 3/4 cup roasted unsalted peanuts
2 small shallots
2 cloves garlic
4 tablespoons fresh lime juice
12 tablespoons unsweetened coconut milk
2 teaspoons sugar
1 teaspoon soy sauce
 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
 1/2 teaspoon Chinese chili sauce
 1/4 teaspoon turmeric
1 cup hot water
 1/2 cup cilantro leaves
 1. Cook noodles according to package directions until al dente, and drain.
2. While noodles are cooking, make the sauce. Crush peanuts in food processor. Squeeze juice from lime. Peel and dice the shallots and garlic.
3. Put four tablespoons of the crushed peanuts in a saucepan with two tablespoons of the lime juice, shallots, garlic, coconut milk, sugar, soy sauce, cumin, chili sauce and turmeric. Stir, cook for one minute, then pour into bowl, add remaining lime juice and hot water, and mix well.
4. Pour sauce over noodles, toss, and garnish with cilantro and remaining peanuts at the table.
Yield: 6 servings.
 
Olivada
(Adapted from Restaurant Associates)
Total time: 15 minutes
 
1 red pepper
1 cup Kalamata olives
 1/2 red onion
1 clove garlic
1 rib celery
2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon oregano
 1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil.
 1. Prepare the broiler. Char the red pepper, turning to cook on all sides. Let cool slightly, tear off blackened skin and remove seeds and veins.
2. While pepper is roasting, pit the olives. Peel onion and garlic, trim celery and chop in large pieces.
3. Combine all ingredients in food processor. Pulse until mixture is spreadable.
4. Serve with bread or crackers.
Yield: 6 servings.
 
Mashed White Beans
(Adapted from Creative Edge)
Total time: 2 hours
 
1 pound small navy beans
2 quarts water
10 garlic cloves
1 onion
4 tablespoons butter.
 1. Wash beans. Put in large pot with water.
2. Peel garlic and chop cloves in half. Peel onion and chop in half. Add both to pot.
3. Bring beans to boil, then simmer, covered, until well cooked, at least 90 minutes.
4. Remove beans, onion and garlic from pot, saving liquid.
5. On high heat, cook liquid until reduced in half, almost to a glaze.
6. Mix beans, liquid and butter in food processor and puree.
Yield: 8 servings.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (pgs. C1 & C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (50%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: RESTAURANT ASSOCIATES CATERING (50%); RESTAURANT ASSOCIATES CORP (50%); TASTE CATERERS (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: TASTE CATERERS (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (50%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CATERING; RECIPES; COOKING AND COOKBOOKS CATERING SERVICES (92%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); RESTAURANTS (88%); BUDGETS (76%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (61%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (60%); 

PERSON: HALL, TRISH; GILMAN, JOHN; HOLLAND, SUSAN SASCHA WOLHANDLER (65%); RON PAUL (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



136 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Wine Talk

BYLINE: By Frank J. Prial

 BODY:
A READER writes: "Wine is too expensive. Say it. Or are you afraid of the wine people? People are sick of the prices in stores and especially in restaurants.
"The wine people act as if these dollar prices are normal when they are utterly insane. Your 'Tastings' mentions a Napa Valley chardonnay for $30! I am a comfortable man with a good six-figure income. I love wine, but the heck with $30. 
 "People are ashamed to drink modestly priced wine lest they look cheap. So, save calories, save money and look sharp. Have a Perrier for $2 or $2.50! It's easy. It's sharp. It's less expensive. It's healthy!"
"Right now," the reader adds, the wine sellers "are scurrying to reach a dwindling segment of the moneyed population. They need to return to wine at $2 to $5."
He concludes: "Excuse me. I'm going out for a seltzer."
What prompted these remarks were some recent lines here about how little wine Americans actually drink and how the idea of America one day becoming a wine-drinking nation has no basis in reality. The article noted that hardly anyone drinks wine for lunch in restaurants.
Another reader commented: "Few want to add $30 to their lunch bill for wine, even for a special occasion. Most people are too insecure about their images to shop around among the cheap offerings on the wine list -- so the $5 martini is the happy choice at lunch. No image problem and no budget-buster."
The wine industry likes to blame its current problems -- and they are legion -- on outside forces: changing mores about drinking, the fitness movement, tougher drunken-driving laws, the recession. They all play a part, but it's not easy to blame any of them for high prices. The fact remains that, while wine sales have fallen in recent years, wine prices have continued to rise.
Thirty dollars for a chardonnay? Chicken feed. The first of the 1989 Bordeaux wines have just been shipped and some of the prices per bottle as listed in The Wine Spectator, a consumer magazine, are: Chateau Petrus, $390; Chateau Lafleur like Petrus a Pomerol, $225; Mouton-Rothschild and Haut-Brion, both $150, and Lafite-Rothschild, $145. Prices for the top 1988 Burgundies are even more outrageous, approaching, in one or two instances, $450 a bottle.
Chateaus that were selling their wines -- good wines -- five years ago for $12 are asking $35 now. California wineries don't hesitate to ask $50 to $100 for their ultrapremium wines, and the Italians, who rode to fame on fine wines at low prices, have been afflicted by what only can be called folie de grandeur. Insane is not too harsh a word to describe some of these pricing policies.
Unfortunately, there is a tendency to report excessively on these wildly overpriced wines, if only because they are so startling. And, of course, because the people who make them are usually consummate promoters. The fact that there are so many reasonably priced wines around is often ignored or brushed off. But they are out there. Good wine is within the reach of almost everybody.
Not, one hastens to add, in restaurants. There, the wine ripoff has been all but institutionalized. Wine bargains are in the retail shops waiting to be brought home for dinner.
No, there are no decent $2 wines anymore, but there are, for the benefit of that reader and everyone else, plenty at $5 and $6. Besides, how much was the fellow with a six-figure income making when wine was $2? The same issue of The Wine Spectator that announced the unrealistic Bordeaux prices offered 17 wines for $9 a bottle or less, including three, a Monterey Vineyard 1989 cabernet sauvignon, a Clos du Val 1989 chardonnay and a Mountain View 1990 chardonnay, each for $6.
In the most recent issue of his newsletter, The Wine Advocate, Robert M. Parker Jr. lists more than 300 wines selling for $10 or less. More than three dozen are priced at $6 or less. These wines, he says, are the best of some 3,000, all under $10, that he tasted. And they are not off-labels from unknown producers.
They were from some of the best known wine makers in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, South America, Australia and the United States. Among just the California producers: Bonny Doon, Beaulieu, Bel Arbors, Geyser Peak, Sutter Home, Glen Ellen, Monterey Vineyard, Mirassou, Joseph Phelps, Parducci, Pedroncelli, Chateau Ste. Michelle, Trentadue and Teldeschi.
There is still good Beaujolais for $7 or less and equally good Chiantis can be found for $8.
First Growths and famous Burgundies may be lost forever to the common man, but no one can say that all wine prices are unconscionable, except in restaurants. Restaurant owners -- not all, to be sure -- routinely mark up their wines to three times the retail price. And, of course, they never pay the retail price. It is not uncommon for restaurants to charge four or five times their own cost.
Confronted recently with the fact that he was charging $45 for an indifferent Cahors, a wine that certainly cost him well under $10, a successful Manhattan restaurant owner said: "But look how it helps me keep my food prices down." In other words, the wine drinkers are subsidizing everyone else in his place.
The wine industry makes a great effort to portray wine as a food, as a natural part of a meal. The restaurant industry couldn't care less. To many a restaurateur, wine is booze, a high-ticket item with almost no labor costs. Is it any wonder that so little wine is sold at lunchtime?
Some people want it both ways, like the reader who wants cheap wine but is also worried about his image. But in fact, good red California wine from wineries like Pedroncelli and Parducci can be had at remarkably low prices, often less than $10 retail for a magnum. Restaurants could pour these wines in carafes at truly reasonable prices. Two martinis for $10? Many a restaurant could sell a carafe of decent California wine for $10 and still make a profit. Not a killing; a profit.
While the wine makers are busy courting the high-rollers and the wine cultists, the huge but less affluent segment of the market is drifting away. Not always because of health concerns, not always because of fear of a D.W.I. rap, but simply because the stuff just costs too much.
 
TASTINGS
Commanderie de la Bargemone, Cuvee Tournebride 1985; about $9.
 A Parisian photographer, an acquaintance, has a hideaway in Bargemon, a town in Provence in the mountains west of Grasse with a 14th-century church and the ruins of a 12th-century castle. About 15 years ago, he introduced me to the wines of the Commanderie de la Bargemone. That was well before the current push to upgrade the wines of the south of France, but even then the Commanderie made excellent wines at remarkably low prices. Now they are in the United States, a red, a white and a rose. The red, Cuvee Tournebride, is a blend of traditional grapes of the Cotes de Provence: syrah, grenache and carignan. The result is a smooth, rounded wine with concentration and body, not sweet, but rich and lush on the palate. It can hold its own with many better-known Provencal wines, particularly in price. It's probably difficult to find, but so are many good but little-known wines.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MONTEREY VINEYARD (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WINES; PRICES RESTAURANTS (90%); WINE (90%); BEVERAGE PRICES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (89%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (78%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUDGETS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); WINERIES (73%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (70%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (69%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J PETRUS A POMEROL (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



137 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 94 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Seeking To Get Rates Down

 BODY:
Voicing his concern that stubbornly high long-term interest rates will hold the economy back, the Federal Reserve chairman sought to nudge those rates down by repeatedly saying, in testimony before a Congressional committee, that inflation was declining.
His comments came as long-term rates climbed again on reports indicating renewed strength in the economy, including the first gain in three months in the index of leading indicators, a gauge of future performance, and a 12.9 percent jump in sales of new homes in January.
Business Day, pages D1 and D3.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST (MONEY); RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (88%); NEW HOME SALES (86%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (86%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



138 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Greenspan sought to nudge long-term rates down by repeatedly saying that inflation was falling. He voiced a concern that stubbornly high long-term rates would hold the economy back. [Page D1.]
The leading indicators jumped 0.9 percent in January after two straight declines. The increase was the biggest since July and, along with a sharp advance in sales of new houses, inspired fresh optimism that a recovery was taking shape. [D3.]
The Senate Finance Committee voted to raise top tax rates to pay for a politically attractive mix of $300 tax credits for children, easing student loans and more generous I.R.A.'s. [A19.]
New York State will have to borrow at least $500 million to keep afloat the fund it uses to pay unemployment benefits. [B4.]
New auto insurance regulations in New Jersey will bar the use of age, sex or marital status in setting rates. [B4.]
 
Companies
Two leading airline computer reservation systems will merge. United's Apollo and Galileo, formed by European carriers, will be the first global system not under the control of a top airline. [D1.]
A.T.& T. said it planned to introduce new technology that could replace up to a third of its 18,000 long-distance operators. [D1.]
ITT agreed to sell its 30 percent stake in Alcatel for an estimated $3.6 billion. The move ended the involvement of ITT in the telephone industry, its original business. [D1.]
General Electric's chairman, John F. Welch Jr., who earned the nickname "Neutron Jack" on his reputation for eliminating people while leaving buildings standing, has gone through a conversion and is now preaching corporate pacifism. [D1.]
First City Bancorp of Texas is scouring the financial markets in search of banks or other buyers as investors. [D2.]
Apple Computer lifted the curtain on new software technologies that will begin appearing in Macintoshes. [D4.]
 
International
With concern high about U.S. competitiveness, there is a growing debate over whether the loosely coordinated U.S. efforts at export promotion are on the verge of falling behind. [A19.]
A simmering dispute over the national origin of Hondas assembled in Canada has flared into a political battle. [D6.]
Fujitsu plans to announce that it will re-enter the American market for supercomputers. [D6.]
At Mazda and other Japanese transplants, American executives are learning to immerse themselves in the nitty-gritty. [D1.]
Bertelsmann agreed to buy a 44-story Times Square office tower that has been vacant since it was completed in 1990. [B3.]
 
Business Technology
Industrial engineers are in hot pursuit of cold technologies, like air-conditioners that use plain water as a refrigerant. [D7.]
 
Markets
Stocks were mixed in heavy trading, but the Dow hit its 13th high this year, gaining 14.98, to 3,290.25. [D8.]
Prices of most Treasury securities fell on signs on life in the economy, and long-term rates moved up toward 8 percent. [D14.]
Wheat futures prices tumbled to a two-month low after the former Soviet republics made grain purchases. [D15.] The dollar advanced strongly and gold prices were mostly lower. [D15.]
 
Today's Columns
Is Canada's Government subsidizing exports of lumber? Trade hawks do not doubt it. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Appliance Recycling Centers of America finds that it can do well by doing good. Market Place. [D8.]
It may have been a tough year for the TV networks to attract advertising dollars, but the cable TV industry racked up yet another increase in ad revenues. Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FUJ (LSE) (55%); 6702 (TSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (65%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (65%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FIRSTCITY FINANCIAL CORP (65%); FUJITSU LTD (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); TAX LAW (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INSURANCE (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (72%); EXPORT PROMOTION (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (53%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (53%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (51%); 

PERSON: JACK WELCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



139 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Airline Ticketing Systems Plan to Merge

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
Two leading airline computer reservation systems, Apollo, controlled by United, and Galileo, formed by a group of major European carriers, will be merged into what would be the first global system outside the control of a major airline, several United States and European airline executives said yesterday.
The merger is expected to be announced tomorrow by John C. Pope, the chairman of Covia, the United affiliate that owns the Apollo system, in Amsterdam, said the executives, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
 One of the executives said United would not have a majority interest in the merged system, as it now has in Covia, which is one of the leading systems in the United States.
"This will create the first global and neutral system," the executive said.
Up to now, large systems have been controlled by a major carrier. American Airlines controls Sabre, Apollo's primary competitor.
Carriers that control such systems have often benefited as travel agents, who use the system to make reservations and search out the best fares, often booked flights on the parent carriers, partly because their flights were more prominently displayed. But much of the bias in listing flights has been eliminated in recent years.
Another factor is that the airlines often provide incentives like higher commissions and other perks to an agency if it books a certain number of passengers on an airline in a month.
Making the system more neutral could benefit the consumer because travel agents might have an easier time searching out the best fares and the availability of seats if more airlines are put on an equal footing.
The merged Apollo-Galileo system would basically be run out of Denver, where Apollo is now based, the executives said. It could not be determined who would manage the system.
The merger could also put pressure on American Airlines to form a union with Amadeus, the other major reservation system set up by European carriers.
Galileo was formed in 1987 by nine European carriers -- British Airways, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, Alitalia, Swissair, Austrian Airlines, Olympic, Sabena, Air Portugal and Aer Lingus.
Covia, with operations based in Chicago, is controlled by United, but its shareholders include British Airways, Alitalia, Swissair and KLM, which bought an interest for $500 million. Thus, the ground was already laid for an eventual merger.
 
Reducing Costs
 One of the executives said yesterday that the impetus to combine came from the high cost of operating the system in Europe. By merging with Apollo, the cost would be reduced for all the carriers.
"The expense of these systems is enormous," said Daniel M. Kasper, a consultant on international aviation at Harbridge House Inc., a consulting firm based in Boston. He said that the cost of developing and updating computer software was very high, but that once a merged operation was put into place, new carriers could be brought in very easily.
The more carriers using the system, the lower the cost per carrier.
 
Big Money Makers
 Despite the costs, the Apollo and Sabre systems have been big money makers for United and American, respectively, since the carriers collect fees when travel agencies make reservations on the systems.
Mr. Kasper said a possible merger would put renewed pressure on American to try to reach an agreement with Amadeus to stay in the race of building a global computer reservations system.
Amadeus was also formed in 1987, primarily by Air France, Lufthansa, Iberia and the Scandinavian Airlines System, which recently dropped out of the consortium.
The incentive to combine has also increased as large carriers like United and American have expanded greatly in Europe by buying up routes from troubled carriers, including Pan American World Airways Inc. and Trans World Airlines Inc.
 
United's Advantage
 The possible merger would give Stephen M. Wolf, the chairman of the UAL Corporation, which owns United, an advantage in the race to become global carriers. Such a combined system could give United and the European carriers involved an edge in having airlines in the Pacific join their system, thus increasing its reach and further driving down operating costs.
All the carriers are seeking ways to cut operating costs, since traffic has been depressed by the recession and has been slow to recover. In addition, fare cuts have kept down revenues.
Most carriers have already made great strides in cutting operating costs by buying new planes and reducing staff. Thus, it has become harder to find ways to trim expenses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AF (PAR) (52%); AF (AMS) (52%); AERL (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (88%); EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: APOLLO (COMPUTER RESERVATION SYSTEM); UNITED AIRLINES INC; GALILEO (TICKET RESERVATION SYSTEM) HARBRIDGE HOUSE INC (60%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); AUSTRIAN AIRLINES GROUP AG (52%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (52%); AER LINGUS GROUP PLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO (COMPUTER RESERVATION SYSTEM); UNITED AIRLINES INC; GALILEO (TICKET RESERVATION SYSTEM)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (88%); EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); RESERVATIONS (AIRLINES, HOTELS, ETC); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AIRLINES (93%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (90%); MERGERS (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); TICKET AGENCIES (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS JOHN C POPE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



140 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Sees Lower Inflation

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3

 BODY:
Voicing his concern that stubbornly high long-term interest rates will hold the economy back, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, sought today to nudge those rates down by repeatedly saying that inflation was declining.
Testifying before a Congressional committee, Mr. Greenspan noted that long-term rates had drifted up to nearly 8 percent, but sought to make interest rates reverse course by saying that inflation should improve into next year even if economic growth strengthens. 
 His comments came as long-term rates climbed again on a fresh batch of reports indicating renewed strength in the economy. The Government reported today that the index of leading economic indicators, a gauge of future performance, rose by nine-tenths of 1 percent in January, the first increase in three months, and that sales of new homes jumped 12.9 percent in January, the biggest gain in a year. [Page D3.]
 
 
Lower Inflation Patterns
 In spite of current high interest rates, "the inflation patterns that are evolving are very clearly moving lower,' Mr. Greenspan said, and "I read that in the longer run to suggest lower longer-term rates as well."
He continued: "With appropriate economic policies, the improvement in the inflation trend should extend into 1993 -- even, I would hope, with stronger growth in real activity than now appears in prospect for the current year."
Mr. Greenspan, who was confirmed last week by the Senate for a second four-year term as Federal Reserve chairman, testified before the Joint Economic Committee. He said today's positive signs and other recent news pointed to recovery, but he said the outlook remained uncertain. He said, as he has repeatedly over the last month, that the central bank would continue to monitor the economy and would adjust monetary policy if the recovery stalled.
 
 
More Easing Isn't Seen
 Economists interpreted Mr. Greenspan's remarks, coupled with today's positive economic news, as indications that no additional easing would be forthcoming in the immediate future, barring a mountain of bad economic news.
"If there is a signal in what Greenspan is saying, it is that the Fed will prefer to hold the line on policy for the time being," said Hugh Johnson, chief economist with the First Albany Corporation, an Albany-based brokerage. "It's a safe bet that the Fed is not going to lower short-term interest rates over the next four weeks."
Financial markets, rather than the Fed, are key to determining long-term rates. Some analysts believe that the fact that those rates did not fall as far as short-term rates, and have recently risen slightly, signifies that inflation fears remain alive.
Mr. Greenspan suggested that another factor pushing up rates was fear that wrangling between the White House and Congress over tax cuts could push up the budget deficit. He said the $400 billion deficit projected for this year might be helping keep rates high by holding down private savings and by "undermining the long-term belief in the possibilities of a truly noninflationary economy."
Mr. Greenspan noted that spending was starting to firm in several sectors and that the money supply was growing faster. "These are the types of indications one looks for when business activity is picking up," he said. "But, as I have indicated previously, there are some extraordinary forces at work in the economy that add an exceptional measure of uncertainty to the current picture."
He said the reluctance of many businesses and households to increase spending until they made their debt burdens more manageable had made it particularly hard to escape the current downturn. But Mr. Greenspan said his best guess was "that this unusual restraint on economic activity should begin to dissipate in the reasonably near future."
 
Says Easing Is Working
 He repeated his belief that previous rate cuts were bolstering the economy by, for instance, spurring home sales and enabling households to reduce their debt burdens through mortgage refinancings.
"It's our view that the process of monetary ease is indeed working in the economy," he said. "What is unclear at this stage and the one thing I think we better not take for granted is that what we're seeing at this stage will inevitably create a self-sustaining economic recovery."
He said that technically the recession had ended because the economy had grown over the last three quarters, albeit very slowly. He said the recovery had been far weaker than most postwar recoveries.
"I've rarely seen a recovery as anemic as the one we are seeing," he said. "The recovery has been little more than glacial."
 
Frustrate Officials
 Officials in the Bush Administration, Congress and the Fed are frustrated that long-term rates have not gone down since the Fed cut rates in late December. The rate for the Treasury's key 30-year bond has climbed from 7.40 percent two months ago to 7.91 percent today. Many economists fear that the high rates will slow the recovery by discouraging home purchases and capital investment.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, left, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, talked with the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, before a morning session yesterday. Seated behind Mr. Greenspan were three of his aides: from right, Dianne Werneke, David Lindsey and David Stockton. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (51%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM GLEACHER & CO INC (63%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (51%); ALBANY, NY, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); TAX LAW (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



141 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Economic Index Rose 0.9 in January

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3

 BODY:
The Government index intended to predict turns in the economy jumped nine-tenths of 1 percent in January after two straight declines, the Commerce Department reported today.
The increase was the biggest since July and, along with other figures showing a sharp advance in sales of new houses last month, inspired fresh optimism among analysts that some sort of recovery was taking shape. 
 "Things should be on their way up," said Erin Fossett, an economist for the First National Bank of Chicago, adding that it may have begun in November or December.
But today's figures did not dispel caution, and few analysts were yet predicting that economic growth would be even half as great as the average 6 percent snapback in production during the first year of postwar recoveries.
"One month's increase is not decisive," said Victor Zarnowitz of the University of Chicago, a leading academic forecaster, referring to the January spurt in the index of leading indicators. "We need two or three in order to see any real significance. We are in a slight recovery now and it is not clear that a strong recovery is right ahead of us."
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, said in an appearance before Congress today that consumers and business continued to pay off debt, but he did not say how far this had to go. He said this process of paying off debt was an "unusual restraint on economic activity" and one of the "extraordinary forces at work in the economy that add an exceptional measure of uncertainty to the current picture."
The real estate market, however, has clearly improved, with tumbling mortgage rates contributing to a 12.9 percent surge in sales of new single-family homes in January. At an annual pace of 612,000, sales were 51 percent above the level of January 1991.
The January gain was also the sharpest since February 1991, when sales climbed 21 percent from their depressed pace of 406,000 a year. The supply of unsold homes in relation to the current sales rate is now the lowest in more than five years.
The median price of a new home was $125,000 in January, up 2.4 percent from December and the highest since a similar price in June 1990. The median means half the homes cost more and half less.
 
Figures Please Bush
 The economy's performance may well prove to be the dominant issue of the 1992 election campaign. Responding to today's reports, both of which were better than expected, President Bush said, "It's nice to have some encouraging news."
The nine-tenths of 1 percent rise in the leading index was accompanied by small, favorable revisions for November and December that trimmed what had been three-tenths of 1 percent declines to declines of two-tenths of 1 percent.
Seven of the 11 components contributed to the January gain, with surging stock prices as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500 and higher contracts and orders for new plant and equipment accounting for well over half of it.
The five lesser contributors were a rise in building permits, higher prices for materials particularly sensitive to the business cycle, a rise in new orders for factory-made consumer goods, a rise in the M-2 money supply and fewer people making first-time claims for unemployment insurance.
The four negative factors were a shorter average workweek, followed by a drop in consumer expectations, fewer companies reporting slower deliveries by suppliers and lower factory backlogs of unfilled orders for durable goods.
While today's figures "portray an improving economy," said Alan C. Lerner, chief economist at Bankers Trust, "I would not get too excited yet." He noted that mortgage and other long-term interest rates have moved up since January and that there were some "false starts" last year.
The leading index, in fact, rose for six straight months beginning in February but the economy continued to stumble into 1992. The index also failed to predict the onset of recession, not declining until July 1990, the month that was later designated under output, employment and other criteria to have been the first month of recession.
The companion index measuring current economic activity dropped 1 percent in January, the largest of four straight declines, today's report also showed. Lower personal income and lower industrial output accounted for the bulk of the fall.
The index of lagging indicators, which tends to move after the overall economy, fell 1.4 percent in January, the 12th decline in a row and the biggest since June. Longer jobless spells and a lower prime lending rate were the main factors.
The ratio of the coincident index to the lagging index -- an alternative predictor -- rose slightly for the second straight month.
Two privately constructed forecasting indexes also showed sizable gains for January. Safian Investment Research, based in White Plains, said its index climbed 1.08 percent, to 199.5, 5.1 percent above its January 1991 trough. Of the 23 components, 14 rose in January.
The index compiled by David B. Bostian Jr., chief economist for Herzog, Heine, Geduld, rose to 106 in January from 89 in December on a scale in which 50 marks the start of post-recession expansion.

 
Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis"
 Components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from Dec. to Jan.

 	 	 	Contrib.		to Index	 	 	Average work week of 	-0.22r	production workers in 	 	manufacturing	 	 	 	Average weekly claims for 	+0.07r	state unemployment	 	insurance*	 	 	 	New orders for consumer 	+0.12r	goods and materials,	 	adjusted for inflation	 	 	 	Vendor performance 	-0.06r	(companies receiving	 	slower deliveries from	 	supliers)	 	 	 	Contracts and orders for 	+0.26r	plant and equipment,	 	adjusted for inflation	 	 	 	New building permits 	+0.15r	issued	 	 	 	Change in manufacturers' 	-0.06r	unfilled orders, durable	 	goods	 	 	 	Change in sensitive 	+0.13r	materials prices	 	 	 	Index of stock prices 	+0.38r	 	 	Money supply; M-2 	+0.07r	adjusted for inflation	 	 	 	Index of consumer 	-0.09r	expectations	 	 	 	Leading Indicators Index 	+0.90r	percent change	 	 * Series is inverted in computing Index; that is a decrease in the series is considered upward movement.
 
(Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTEREST RATES (63%); MORTGAGE RATES (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



142 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Off on Signs of Rebound

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Signs of life in the economy helped to push down prices of most Treasury securities yesterday, and long-term interest rates moved up toward 8 percent.
The economic signals reported yesterday -- the first rise in the Government's index of leading economic indicators in three months and a sharp increase in new home sales in January -- came on top of a report on Monday from the nation's purchasing managers, who suggested the manufacturing sector is no longer in recession. 
 "The numbers are starting to pile up," one government bond trader said. "The recovery is looking a bit more certain than it did as recently as two weeks ago, and retail accounts are just not buying much."
Prices started to slide after the nine-tenths of a percent rise in the index of leading indicators was released. But the big surprise was the 12.9 percent rise in new home sales, an increase that more than double the gain optimistic analysts were expecting.
Yet, housing experts said the apparent recovery in the industry might well prove transitory, particularly if the rise in market interest rates over the last two months is not reversed.
"An 8 percent yield on 30-year bonds won't kill off the recovery, but it is going to reduce the improvement in housing considerably," said Lyle E. Gramley, chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association in Washington.
Indeed, a monthly survey conducted by the Mortgage Bankers Association showed that mortgage applications slowed considerably in February from a month earlier.
"The drop in mortgage applications raises questions about how much additional improvement we are going to get," in housing, Mr. Gramley said.
Despite early signs of recovery, Mr. Gramley said the inflation outlook remained highly favorable -- a point Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, reiterated in testimony before Congress's Joint Economic Committee yesterday -- making it hard to justify why bond yields should be so high.
And traders said some speculative accounts were buying bonds as yields moved close to 8 percent yesterday.
By late in the day, the 8 percent 30-year Treasury bonds of 2021 were offered at a price of 10030/32 , down a quarter-point, to yield 7.91 percent, compared with 7.89 percent late Monday. Yesterday the yield on the benchmark issue rose as high as 7.97 percent.
Among outstanding Treasury note issues, the 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered at 10021/32 in late trading, down 7/32 , to yield 7.40 percent. The 6 3/4 percent five-year notes were offered at 1002/32 , down 2/32 , to yield 6.73 percent. But prices of the 5 3/8 percent two-year notes rose by 2/32 , to 9930/32 , to yield 5.40 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates rose modestly.
Three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 4.02 percent late yesterday, up 2 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates rose by 3 basis points, to a late offered rate of 4.11 percent.
In the investment-grade corporate bond market, the BankAmerica Corporation offered $250 million of 10-year subordinated notes through an underwriting group led by Salomon Brothers.
The 8 3/8 percent noncallable securities mature March 15, 2002, and were priced at $99.245 to yield 8.488 percent, 1.05 percentage points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing.
The securities are rated A-3 by Moody's Investors Service and A- by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
A number of new tax-exempt issues were priced yesterday, including a competitive sale of $263 million worth of securities for Mecklenburg County, N.C.
The issue was sold in two parts.
A bid from a group led by Prudential Securities won $163 million worth of general obligation bonds.
The serial bonds were reoffered to investors with yields from 4 percent on securities maturing in 1994 to 6.15 percent on bonds maturing in 2005.
A group led by the First Boston Corporation won the remaining $100 million. These bonds were reoffered with yields from 4 percent in 1994 to 6.40 percent in 2012.
The securities are rated AAA by both Moody's and Standard & Poor's.
In the secondary market for tax-exempt bonds, traders said prices of most widely quoted issues were down by about three-eighths of a point.
Participants in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds said that prices of most issues were little changed at the end of a fairly active trading session.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (87%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); RECESSION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INFLATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); TESTIMONY (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (69%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



143 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: Level of Government Assistance for American Exporters Is Debated

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3

 BODY:
At a time of heightened concern about American competitiveness and lagging foreign trade, debate is growing over whether the United States' modest and loosely coordinated efforts at export promotion are falling behind other industrialized nations.
American businesses, whose shipments abroad are viewed as the best hope for leading the United States out of recession, are far less likely than their foreign rivals to get low-interest government loans or help from their embassies when they try to sell goods in foreign capitals. 
 The French Government, for example, assigned one official in Tokyo in 1990 to handle commercial affairs for every six French business executives working there. And the Italian Government had one official for every two business executives, according to an internal draft of a Commerce Department study. At the American Embassy, the figure was one official for every 62 executives.
 
Equals a Budget Cut
 Yet less than three weeks after President Bush took corporate executives to Japan in January to look for sales opportunities, he proposed what amounts to a $1.9 million cut, after inflation, in the $114.2 million budget for these commercial officials overseas and in the United States, along with the elimination of 13 of the agency's 1,287 positions.
According to a General Accounting Office report released last month, all programs to promote exports suffer from a lack of a national strategy. The report concluded, "Without an overall strategy, the U.S. Government does not have reasonable assurances in today's highly competitive economic environment that its export-promotion resources are being most effectively used to emphasize sectors, regions and programs with the highest potential return."
Representative Doug Barnard Jr., the Georgia Democrat who ordered the G.A.O. study, has scheduled a hearing on it for Wednesday before the Commerce Consumer and Monetary Affairs subcommittee, which he leads.
American businesses are also becoming more and more vocal in demanding a Government export policy. The board of the U.S.-Japan Business Council, a Washington-based group of senior executives from leading American and Japanese corporations, recommended on Feb. 18 that "the U.S. Government initiate an export vision, with special emphasis on Japan."
 
Ideal of Free Markets
 For all the criticism, this Administration has done the most to promote exports and help manufacturers find their way through Washington's bureaucratic maze since American businesses began complaining during the Eisenhower Administration. President Bush created a Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee in May 1990, with representatives from 18 agencies. But the committee is temporary and has no authority.
Administration officials say informal coordination exists. And they contend that any strategy aimed at helping specific industries would risk helping the wrong industries and would clash with America's tradition of keeping markets free. "Neither our Government nor our businesses are interested in providing or taking that kind of direction," said James D. Berg, executive vice president of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, a Federal agency that provides loans and political-risk insurance for American investment abroad.
 
Political Appeal Weighed
 Administration critics say that the Government is setting up a straw man, that only an economy's most successful companies usually sign export deals and need government assistance in financing and executing them. The critics suggest that the real issue is money, and that modest budgets for every export program except those in agriculture show a lack of interest by the Administration and many members of Congress in efforts that do not immediately produce benefits readily apparent to voters.
The big winner in the current system has long been American agriculture. The General Accounting Office report found that food exports accounted for only one-tenth of the nation's exports but three-quarters of the Government's $2.66 billion in export assistance outlays during the year ended Sept. 30.
"If we could do for manufacturing what we do for agriculture, you could see in time a real reduction in our deficit" in trade, said Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th, Democrat of West Virginia. "Money counts; organization counts, but money counts absolutely."
But while these tasks are aimed at a single goal -- reducing the nation's $65 billion trade deficit by increasing exports -- they are carried out by 10 Federal agencies, the G.A.O. report pointed out.
The State Department's Agency for International Development encourages exports to poor countries, the United States Trade and Development Program spends $37 million a year for studies of American export opportunities and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation insures companies against the expropriation of their foreign holdings. The Agriculture and Energy departments and the Small Business Administration each promote exports from the industries they oversee.
The Export-Import Bank of the United States gives loans and loan guarantees to exporters while the Commerce Department maintains a staff of 200 trade analysts for specific industries and posts trade advisers across the country and at embassies overseas. Even the Interior Department and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration assign employees to promote exports.
 
'One-Stop Shopping'
 Former Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher, who left the department in January to become the general chairman of Mr. Bush's re-election campaign, visited 30 American cities last year. He took with him top officials from other agencies' export programs in an effort to provide "one-stop shopping" for American businesses seeking money and expertise to begin exporting.
But senior American officials concede that the interagency coordination on export strategies is mostly limited to clubby meetings of the sort that typifies much of the Bush Administration's policy making. Differences of opinion are negotiated informally by Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady; the United States trade representative, Carla A. Hills; John D. Macomber, the president of the Ex-Im Bank, and Fred M. Zeder 2d, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation's president and chief executive.
"What's the practical way of working it out?" Mr. Macomber asked. "The practical way is that the Secretary of Commerce and myself and Fred Zeder get on the telephone and talk to each other about what we're trying to do, or we see each other for a cup of coffee, or we talk to Nick Brady or Carla."
Yet most American economists and politicians do not see the nation's future in agriculture. They look instead to the manufacturing industries, where Government assistance to exporters has been skimpy.
 
What the U.S. Spends
 According to G.A.O. figures, the United States spends nearly $50 in export assistance for every $1,000 worth of agricultural exports and only 93 cents for every $1,000 worth of other exports.
By comparison, the G.A.O.'s tentative calculations show that France spends $1.91 for every $1,000 of nonagricultural exports while Britain spends $1.81.
America's industrial exporters are discouraged from using the programs by the difficulty of finding the right program and the cost of filling out voluminous applications, which tend to be just as long for small loans as for large. Take Trident Enterprises International Inc., a Minneapolis-based trading company. Trident ships parts to refrigerator factories in Venezuela, which typically take a month or two to assemble and sell their appliances, raising the money to pay for the parts.
If Trident could lend these companies the money to pay for the parts, it could double or triple exports to $8 million to $12 million, said Jerry H. Udesen, Trident's president. But applying for Government export loans would cost more than the loans are worth because Trident is too small to have a full-time staff dedicated to such tasks, Mr. Udesen said.
 
Going Through Red Tape
 "It would take a minimum of six to nine months to put together a package and it would take my time and our comptroller's time," he added.
The Ex-Im Bank's Mr. Macomber said that loans were easily available for small companies, but that too few had the staff, financial sophistication and international contacts to sign foreign deals and apply for Government help. The bank announced on Monday that it would establish a separate section for small businesses to give them more attention.
And if the next century's great export markets are in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, then the future also looks dim. Germany plans to have six commercial affairs offices in the former Soviet republics by the end of this year and is committing $27 billion worth of Government loans to exporters of manufactured goods.
But the United States has only just added a third full-time commercial officer in the former Soviet republics, all in Moscow, and has yet to disburse its first installment of export loans, worth $90 million.


GRAPHIC: In 1990, the United States had more business executives in Japan than its main trade competitors . . .
 
United States: 3,233
Britain: 999
Germany: 446
France: 313
Canada: 276
Italy: 90
Chart: "Developing Deals in Japan"
. . . but other countries provided more help.
 Number of executives per Government commercial affairs staff member in Japan.
 
United States: 62.17
Britain: 21.26
Germany: 9.30
France: 5.80
Canada: 6.73
Italy: 2.31
 
(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (95%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); ITALY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); 

COMPANY: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (60%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (95%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); ITALY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EXPORT TRADE (92%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXPORT PROMOTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXPORT CONTROLS (72%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



144 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Tax Bill, Senate Version, Is Voted by Finance Unit

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3

 BODY:
The Senate Finance Committee fired another shot today in the election year war over taxes, voting on straight party lines to raise top tax rates to pay for a politically attractive mix of $300 tax credits for children, easing student loans and more generous individual retirement accounts.
President Bush, who had threatened to veto a House bill with a broader middle-class tax cut last week, said the Senate version was "the same old business" and he would veto it, too. 
 Republicans on the Finance Committee were going along with that strategy, making no effort to delay the committee but offering faint praise for Mr. Bush's growth package. They provided all the 9 votes against the committee proposal, as Democrats cast the 11 favorable votes.
 
Issue of 'Class Warfare'
 Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, said he would cooperate with having only a brief debate on the Senate floor next week so the bill could reach Mr. Bush for a fast veto. "The veto is going to be sustained," he said. While Democrats would have their issue of "class warfare," he said "they've get to explain to the people why they voted to raise taxes."
But the package the Democrats put together will allow them to renew their arguments that Mr. Bush and his party are inattentive to domestic problems. Along with the tax credit for children and several growth provisions that Mr. Bush had demanded by March 20, their bill includes significant health insurance legislation whose provisions Mr. Bush himself supports.
If those measures are in the legislation fashioned by a House-Senate conference committee, Mr. Bush will be in the position of vetoing a bill that includes provisions intended to make it easier for individuals and small businesses to get health insurance and that would severely limit disqualifications because of existing health problems. Mr. Bush has largely adopted those provisions, initiated by Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, who heads the Senate Finance Committee, in his own health proposal.
Senator Bentsen's proposal would also set Federal standards for the regulation of private health insurance. The purpose is to make coverage more available and affordable to small businesses that employ fewer than 51 employees.
The Texas Democrat would prohibit insurers from refusing to offer health insurance to people deemed to pose a risk because of medical problems like diabetes or heart disease. Insurers could not reject applicants because of their claims history or medical problems. The Bentsen measure would guarantee that workers could change jobs without losing health insurance. At present, many workers say they cannot shift jobs because they fear losing their health insurance.
Senator Bentsen's bill would also limit the variation in premiums charged by a particular health insurance company, so that insurers could not charge extremely high rates for people with medical problems.
Mr. Bentsen summarized his bill as "an honest effort to enact legislation that will increase access to health insurance and help boost our economy and restore fairness to our tax system."
 
84 Cents a Day
 Although committee Republicans did not challenge many provisions of the Bentsen bill, Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah dismissed the children's tax credit as amounting to no more than 84 cents a day per child, and Senator John C. Danforth of Missouri asked, repeatedly, why the sum had been chosen, why the credit would not be refundable to parents whose tax bills did not exceed them, and why the credits would not be available for children above the age of 15.
To all of those questions, Mr. Bentsen replied that the problem was making sure the bill paid for itself, and that broadening the benefit would cost too much. Senator Bill Bradley, Democrat of New Jersey, tried to change the program to make the grants refundable, but was beaten on an 18-to-2 vote.
Mr. Danforth also insisted, "I haven't found anybody who really believes in the so-called middle-class tax cut," whether in the form backed by Mr. Bentsen or the two years of tax credits of up to $400 for working couples in the House bill.
That prompted Democrats to remind him that a New York Times/CBS News Poll published today showed that 68 percent of the public favored it. And that led Senator Dave Durenberger, Republican of Minnesota, to remind them that the poll also showed that 60 percent of the public thought the Democrats were pushing the idea to get votes, rather than because it was good for the economy.
The Senate Republicans, unlike their House counterparts, made few boasts for Mr. Bush's seven-point program. Most of those points are included, in one form or another in Mr. Bentsen's bill, although his capital gains proposal is much less generous to upper-income taxpayers than is Mr. Bush's.
Mr. Durenberger said it would be better if none of the measures, including Mr. Bush's, were enacted. Senator John H. Chafee. Republican of Rhode Island, said, "You won't find everybody on this side an enthusiastic supporter of the President's bill."
Because it lacks a tax increase, Mr. Bush's plan depends on accounting credits from changes he recommends in pension programs. Democrats denounce them as gimmicks, and Republicans offer little in their defense.
By and large the measure sailed through the committee. But Senator Jay Rockefeller, Democrat of West Virginia, demonstrated the political muscle that can be effective in a narrowly balanced committee. Threatening to vote against the bill if his amendment were not included, he won passage of a provision to tax coal companies $255 million a year to replenish the United Mine Workers Health Fund. Its empty coffers threaten a cutoff of benefits to retired miners and their widows.
 
A 'Terrible Precedent'
 Senator David L. Boren, Democrat of Oklahoma, denounced the amendment as "a terrible, terrible precedent" by taxing companies that had nothing to do with the U.M.W. contract and the fund's problems. But he voted "present," and the amendment was adopted with 10 votes in favor, five against, and five "present."
Mr. Dole contended that the increases in individual tax rates, to 36 percent from 31 percent for taxpayers with taxable incomes of $150,000 and couples with $175,000, would doom the bill to a veto. But after that, he and other Republicans suggested, Congress could get to work on a new bill.
"We'll be back to this the next time around, in a couple of weeks," he predicted. But whatever the enthusiasm of the Senate for another go at taxes, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, has said repeatedly that he has no interest in legislating on taxes more than once this year.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Major Provisions of the Senate Finance Committee Bill"
 
TAX REDUCTIONS
 
Provide a permanent $300 tax credit for children up to age 16 to families with adjusted gross incomes under $50,000, and phase the credit out for families of A.G.I.'s between $50,000 and $70,000.
 Cost: $31.4 billion
 
 Restore complete deductibility of individual retirement accounts and create new kinds of IRA's with varying rules on number of years accounts must be held and on taxability of interest earned.
 Cost: $5 billion
 
 Allow deductibility or tax credit for student loan interest.
 Cost: $0.7 billion
 
 Penalty-free IRA withdrawals for education and first time home purchase.
 Cost: $2.3 billion
 
 Tax credits of up to $5,000 for first-time purchase of new homes.
 Cost: $1.5 billion
 
 Additional 10 percent in first-year depreciation for new investment by business.
 Cost: 2.7 billion
 
 Establish lower tax rates on capital gains, from 5 percent for people with moderate incomes to 28%, as now, for people with the highest incomes, on property held two years. Also exclude half of all gains in new small business investments held at least five years.
 Cost: $7.7 billion
 
 Extend research and experimentation tax credit.
 Cost: $1.7 billion
 
OTHER PROVISIONS
 Prohibit health insurance companies from canceling coverage or excluding members of small groups because of their health or prior claims.
 Limit the wide variation in health insurance premiums and restrict the premium increases.
 Allow tax credits of $1.5 billion for companies that pay Social Security taxes on tips earned by employees, to be paid for by elimination of deduction for club memberships.
 Collect $255 million for the United Mine Workers Health Fund, which is about to cut off retired miners, by a 75-cent-an-hour tax on Eastern coal companies and a 15-cent-an-hour tax on Western companies.
 
TAX INCREASES
 Add new 36 percent top income tax bracket, beginning at taxable income of $150,000 for single taxpayers and $175,000 for joint taxpayers.
 Gain: $43 billion
 
Impose 10percent surtax on taxable income exceeding $1 million.
 Gain: $8.5 billion
 
Prohibit a company from deducting more than $1 million in compensation for each executive.
 Gain: $1.5 billion
 
Increase tariffs on imported mini-vans and light trucks.
 Gain: $1 billion
 
Extend, permanently, current phaseouts of itemized deductions and personal exemptions by higher-income taxpayers.
 Gain: $3.7 billion
 
(Source: Joint Congressional Committee on Taxation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LEGISLATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (84%); TAX INCREASES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (69%); INSURANCE LAW (69%); DIABETES (60%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (57%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLYMER, ADAM GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



145 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Dow Gains 14.98 to Reach Another High

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed yesterday in heavy trading, but blue-chip issues reacted favorably to stronger-than-expected signals on the economy, sending the Dow Jones industrial average to another new high, its 13th this year.
By gaining 14.98 points, to 3,290.25, the Dow erased the record it set just last Wednesday, when it ended at 3,283.32. 
 The economic data added more weight to the argument by those who see an economic recovery and raised expectations of improved corporate earnings. But traders noted that gains made in the stock market were limited by a weaker bond market, where prices slumped and yields moved higher.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was heavy, at 204.7 million shares, up from 180.7 million on Monday. The New York Stock Exchange composite index rose 0.23 point, to 228.43, and stocks rising in price outpaced losers by 929 to 776.
 
Other Indexes Mixed
 Another indicator of blue-chip activity, the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks, was up a slight 0.40 point, to 412.85, while the American Stock Exchange composite slipped 1.30 points, to 415.49.
The Nasdaq composite index dropped 1.22 points, to 634.25, and the Russell 2,000, a measure of smaller companies, rose 0.30 point, to 212.09.
Harry W. Laubscher, a senior vice president with Tucker Anthony Inc., said that although bonds weakened on yesterday's report that the leading economic indicators rose nine-tenths of 1 percent in January, investors bid stocks up in hopes that earnings would soon reflect the improving economy.
"Unless the President stumbles badly in Georgia, the market should be able to work higher in the coming days before new selling pressure appears," Mr. Laubscher said. "Investors should remain cautious and buyers might want to concentrate on sold-out groups like utilities and telephones, especially the Baby Bells."
 
Plunge in Sallie Mae
 The shares of Sallie Mae, the Student Loan Marketing Association, fell 2 3/4, to 63 1/4, after the company said it believed a competing program for student loans had been included in a tax bill being drawn up in the Senate.
Park-Ohio Industries, a diversified machine manufacturer, rose 1/8, to 4 1/4, after Secom General, a machine-tools company, offered $5.50 a share for all Park-Ohio shares. Secom fell 1/8, to 7 3/8.
ITT shot up 3 3/8, to 69 7/8, after agreeing to sell its 30 percent stake in Alcatel N.V., a Dutch telecommunications equipment company, for $3.6 billion. Traders said ITT could decide to use the proceeds to buy back stock, pay down debt or for a special dividend.
United Gaming rose 2 1/2, to 8 7/8, extending gains made on Monday after the company announced an agreement with Fair Ground to operate video poker machines in Lousiana through joint venture corporations. Fair Ground shares were unchanged, at 24.
Expectations of a first-quarter loss sent shares of Sunrise Technologies, a maker of lasers for the health-care industry, down 4 1/2, to 13. The company said the loss was be due to fewer orders from American Dental Laser, which fell 3 1/8, to 6 3/4.
Intelligent Electronics fell 2, to 24 1/4, after reporting fourth-quarter earnings that were below analysts' expectations: 28 cents a share, compared with 36 cents a year earlier.


GRAPHIC: 
Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (52%); BYI (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS332722 BOLT, NUT, SCREW, RIVET & WASHER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS332111 IRON & STEEL FORGING (52%); NAICS331318 OTHER ALUMINUM ROLLING, DRAWING & EXTRUDING (52%); NAICS326299 ALL OTHER RUBBER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC3462 IRON & STEEL FORGING (52%); SIC3452 BOLTS, NUTS, SCREWS, RIVETS & WASHERS (52%); SIC3354 ALUMINUM EXTRUDED PRODUCTS (52%); SIC3069 FABRICATED RUBBER PRODUCTS, NEC (52%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); NAICS339999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3999 MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (66%); ALCATEL-LUCENT NEDERLAND BV (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); NYSE MKT LLC (55%); PARK-OHIO INDUSTRIES INC (52%); SLM CORP (52%); BALLY TECHNOLOGIES INC (50%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (85%); DIVIDENDS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); DIVESTITURES (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (74%); MACHINE TOOLS (70%); STUDENT LOANS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT HARRY W LAUBSCHER (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



146 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Slight Changes in Yields On C.D.'s and Bank Funds

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH M. FOWLER

 BODY:
Yields on bank money market accounts and short-term certificates of deposit showed only modest changes in the week that ended yesterday, with a tendency to be lower than the previous week, according to The Bank Rate Monitor, a publication that tracks bank rates.
"Although savings yields appeared to have touched bottom temporarily, their next direction will be influenced by new economic inidicators, such as the unemployment report due out on Friday," Robert K. Heady, The Monitor's publisher, said yesterday. "Even if the data show improvement, there is enough broad weakness in the economy to prevent any sharp rebound in interest rates." 
 He added: "Typically, a new rate cycle begins after three or four weeks of flatness. The next one could take more like two months, which would coincide with estimates of a 'recovery' sometime in early May.
"In the most optimistic scenario, investors should not expect a strong upturn in yields. The process this time will be slow and sluggish."
 
Midlantic's Steep Cut
 Among New York area commercial banks, the average yield on a money market account dropped by 5 basis points, to 3.45 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of 1 percent.
Among the savings institutions in this area, yields on money market accounts averaged 4.01 percent, off by 3 basis points from a week ago.
For money market accounts, the steepest cut among area banks was made by Midlantic Banks Inc., based in Newark, which lowered its rates by 26 basis points. The Emigrant Savings Bank in New York City, led the way with the sharpest drop in three-month certificates, with a cut of 15 basis points, while Crossland Savings, based in Brooklyn, cut its six-month certificates' yield by 10 basis points -- more than any other area bank.
The Monitor also said the average yields at 20 large banks outside the New York area declined by a relatively small amount, by a basis point, to 3.59 percent, for money market accounts, while their six-month certificates averaged 3.86 percent, up by a basis point.
By comparison, at the Treasury's weekly auction of three-month and six-month bills on Monday, the average rates at auction were 4.02 percent and 4.10 percent, respectively.


GRAPHIC: Annual effective yields, in percent, on money market accounts, three-month certificates of deposit and six-month C.D.'s expected at selected institutions on Wednesday, March 4, 1992. Some C.D. yields assume reinvestment after maturity. Yields are based on the method of compounding and the rate stated for the lowest minimum to open an account, but minimums may vary. Higher yields may be offered for larger deposits. C.D. figures are for fixed rates only.

 	 	 	 		Money	3-mo.	6-mo.	New York Area	Mkt.	C.D.	C.D.	 	 	 	 	COMMERCIAL BANKS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Banco Popular	3.56	3.51	3.51	Bank of N.Y.	3.41	3.41	3.51	Bank of Tokyo Trust	3.35	3.33	3.49	Chase Manhattan	3.25	3.35	3.46	Chemical	3.05	3.09	3.14	Citibank	3.25	3.25	3.25	Conn. Nat'l Bank	3.76	3.56	3.67	EAB	3.25	3.35	3.41	Fleet Bank	4.00	3.55	3.65	First Fidelity (N.J.)	3.50	3.85	4.10	Marine Midland	3.35	3.10	3.20	Manufacturers Hanover	3.05	3.40	3.14	Midlantic Banks(N.J.)	3.56	3.90	4.15	Nat'l Westminster	3.56	3.41	3.46	Republic Nat'l	3.82	3.82	3.82	 	 	 	 	SAVINGS BANKS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	American Savings	3.80	3.90	4.00	Anchor Savings	4.20	3.86	4.08	Apple Bank Savings	4.07	3.87	4.08	Astoria Fed Savings	3.56	4.03	4.09	Bowery Savings	4.13	3.87	4.08	Carteret Savings (N.J.)	4.25	4.40	4.50	Crossland Savings	4.03	3.90	4.08	Dime Savings Bank	4.08	3.90	4.00	Emigrant Savings	4.00	3.90	4.10	First Nationwide	4.00	3.75	3.80	Greater N.Y. Savings	4.05	4.00	4.10	Green Point Savings	4.10	N.O.	4.10	Howard Savings (N.J.)	3.90	3.90	4.15	Hudson City SB (N.J.)	4.34	4.50	4.60	People's Bank (Conn.)	3.71	3.61	3.72	
 	 	 	 	 		Money	Wkly.	6 Mo.	Wkly.	Major Banks Outside N.Y.	Mkt.	Chg.	C.D.	Chg.	 	 	 	 	 	Security Pacific (L.A.)	3.80	0.00	3.70	0.00	First National (Chicago)	3.56	0.00	3.82	+0.16	Bank of Boston	3.87	0.00	4.13	0.00	Mellon (Pittsburgh)	3.82	0.00	4.05	0.00	First Interstate (L.A.)	3.04	0.00	3.71	+0.20	First Union (Charlotte,N.C.)	3.60	0.00	3.60	0.00	National Bank (Detroit)	3.66	0.00	3.70	0.00	Union Bank (S.F.)	3.71	0.00	3.77	0.00	Fleet Bank (Boston)	3.82	0.00	3.82	0.00	Wachovia (Winston Salem, N.C.)	3.61	0.00	3.70	0.00	Maryland Natl	3.80	-0.10	3.85	-0.10	First Bank (Minnesota)	3.45	-0.06	3.65	0.05	Meridian Bank (Reading Pa)	3.38	0.00	4.00	0.00	Fidelity Bank (Philadelphia)	3.75	0.00	3.90	-0.10	Bank One Texas (Dallas)	3.56	0.00	3.70	0.00	NationsBank (Atlanta)	3.61	0.00	4.02	0.00	Citibank, S.D.	4.05	0.00	4.80	0.00	Texas Commerce (Houston)	3.04	0.00	3.82	0.00	NCNB Tampa	3.50	-0.05	3.75	0.00	Seafirst (Seattle)	3.25	0.00	3.65	0.00	

N.A. Rate not available; N.O. Not offered
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor; N. Palm Beach 33408)

Table: "Bank Money Accounts"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (77%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); READING, PA, USA (74%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: EMIGRANT SAVINGS BANK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (77%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); READING, PA, USA (74%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (79%); BONDS (79%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



147 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Bush, Buchanan and No One at All

 BODY:
The answer came a week ago and derives from the figure 31 percent. The question is, How alarmed should tolerant, optimistic Americans become about Patrick Buchanan's showing in yesterday's Presidential primaries?
He attracted a third or more of the Republican vote in Georgia, Maryland and Colorado, just as he had in New Hampshire. For so sudden a candidate to do that well can be read as a victory for his fearful isolationism, nativism and protectionism. But the Buchanan vote can also be taken as a protest against President Bush and hard times. That's where the 31 percent figure comes in. 
 That's the proportion of the vote won by President Bush's only opponent in South Dakota eight days ago -- Uncommitted -- that is, No One at All. The 31 percent figure established a standard for assessing how many Republicans are voting against President Bush as opposed to voting for someone else. In that light, voters seem more interested in Pat Buchanan as a club with which to beat Mr. Bush than as a harsh ideological hero.
There was surely some harsh ideology in Georgia. In New Hampshire, Pat Buchanan presented himself as reasonable, sympathetic to recession's victims. In Georgia he became an intolerant sloganeer. He defamed the Voting Rights Act as "an act of regional discrimination against the South." He lied to the jobless, telling them that anti-discrimination laws caused their jobs to be given to blacks.
Even so, he did not greatly exceed the 31 percent threshold, especially not considering his Democratic crossover votes. And there was a dramatic association between hard times and Buchanan voters. Among Republican voters who say their financial situation is worse than in 1988, seven out of ten voted for Mr. Buchanan.
In other states he just about matched the protest threshold. But that offers little consolation to the President. Even if his problem is not ideological, it remains daunting. He still has offered no relevant, plausible program to fight recession and stimulate growth. And until he does he remains vulnerable, even to No One at All. The New York Times/CBS Poll this week asked, Who are you likely to vote for, George Bush or the Democratic nominee? The generic Democrat won, 50 to 45.
The race for that title yesterday seems, on early evidence, to have produced three winners. In Georgia, Bill Clinton won his first primary, by a surprisingly large margin. That offers a portent for Super Tuesday next week. Paul Tsongas, having chosen to make a stand in Maryland, evidently won comfortably there -- and did well also in Colorado, demonstrating that he has both staying power and geographical reach. And Jerry Brown achieved a do-or-die 20-plus percent in Colorado, preserving his Federal matching funds.
As they battle on, the Democrats will also be bashing at the President at every opportunity. Mr. Bush may conquer his rivals by talking tough, but he has yet to show he can conquer the tougher foe: hard times.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GEORGIA ; MARYLAND; COLORADO UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION RESULTS; PRIMARIES; EDITORIALS ; VOTER BEHAVIOR; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTION LAW (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); MATCHING GIFTS (67%); 

PERSON: TSONGAS, PAUL E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (58%); JERRY BROWN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



148 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
ITT Accepts $3.6 Billion Alcatel Sale

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, March 3

 BODY:
The ITT Corporation agreed today to sell its 30 percent stake in Alcatel N.V. of the Netherlands, the world's largest manufacturer of telephone equipment, for an estimated $3.6 billion.
The move ended the involvement of ITT in the telephone industry, its original business, leaving it with interests mostly in automotive and electronic components, forest products, hotels and financial services. ITT said the sale was in line with its goal of maximizing shareholder value. 
 The ITT stake was acquired by Alcatel Alsthom S.A., the French telecommunications, transport and energy conglomerate that owned the other 70 percent. Formerly known as Compagnie Generale d'Electricite, Alcatel Alsthom has been steadily expanding its telecommunications interests over the last five years.
 
Payment in 3 Installments
 Under the deal, ITT will be paid in three installments: $1 billion when the transaction closes at the end of June, $766.8 million a year later, and $816.6 million in mid-1994. The balance will take the form of 9.1 million shares in Alcatel Alsthom, or a 7 percent stake, which ITT agreed to hold for a minimum of five years.
A statement from the French group said it would propose to the next board meeting that Rand V. Araskog, ITT's chairman and chief executive, join its board.
Alcatel Alsthom put a slightly lower valuation of $3.4 billion on the deal, but did not take account of the 6.5 percent in interest it agreed to pay on the two deferred installments.
"It's good for both companies," said Neil Barton, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. "ITT got what looks like a very good price, and Alcatel Alsthom gained full control of a sector in which it has aggressive expansion plans."
Shares of the French group gained 2 percent on the news, closing at 620 francs, or $111.50, on the Paris Bourse. ITT stock surged $3.375 a share on the New York Stock Exchange, closing at $69.875. It had reached $70.625 in early trading, a level not attained since 1968.
"This deal signifies a new readiness to be flexible in terms of enhancing value at ITT," said James P. Gallagher, an ITT vice president. "We are showing that we are prepared to restructure or spin off assets to maximize shareholder value."
ITT shares had climbed sharply over the last week after Mr. Araskog was quoted by The Financial Times as having said "we want our company to be more exciting to the investment community" and suggesting that a restructuring was possible.
 
Range of Businesses
 ITT, based in New York and once known as the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, owns a sprawling range of businesses including Sheraton hotels, Rayonier forest products and Hartford insurance.
Before the stock's recent surge, the company was performing poorly, hurt by the recession and a perception of inflexibility in the management of its assets. The company recently reported that 1991 profits fell to $6.05 a share from $6.85 in 1990.
Despite Mr. Araskog's remarks, few analysts expected a rapid sale of ITT's European telecommunications interests, especially at so high a price.
Mr. Barton of Merrill Lynch estimated that ITT was being paid about 17.1 times the projected 1992 earnings of Alcatel N.V. In 1990, when ITT sold a 7 percent stake in Alcatel to Alcatel Aslthom, the price was 15.1 times 1989 earnings.
 
A French Powerhouse
 Alcatel Alsthom said the transaction would have no dilutive effect on its earnings per share, which were 48.95 francs, or $8.80, in 1990. Analysts are predicting earnings of about 53 francs a share, or $9.60, for 1991.
In 1990, Alcatel Alsthom, known for its manufacture of the French high-speed TGV train, had net income of 5.03 billion francs, or $914.5 million, on sales of 144.05 billion francs, or $26.1 billion. Telecommunications represent 68.5 percent of revenue.
Explaining the purchase of the ITT stake, Alcatel Alsthom's chairman, Pierre Suard, said: "When you have a 30 percent shareholder, you have to take the time to explain to him your financial results and your policies. You want to have the closest shareholder group possible."
Last year, Alcatel N.V. paid $625 million to acquire the transmission-equipment division of the Rockwell International Corporation. Mr. Suard said the move underscored a commitment to grow rapidly in the United States, concentrating on industrial customers rather than the consumer market. Alcatel also bolstered its leading position in the world cable market by acquring AEG Kabel of Germany for an estimated $586 million last October.
 
Bigger Than A.T.& T.
 In all, Alcatel N.V. had telephone equipment sales of $17.9 billion in 1990, surpassing the American Telephone and Telegraph Company's $12.2 billion.
The French group has been steadily consolidating its ownership of Alcatel N.V. since the company was formed in 1987 from the merger of ITT's international telecommunications and cable business with that of Alcatel Alsthom.
At the outset of the venture, the French company owned 55.6 percent and ITT 37 percent, with the balance held by Societe Generale de Belgique and Credit Lyonnais.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ITT (NYSE) (96%); ALU (PAR) (95%); ALU (NYSE) (95%); ALU (BIT) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (96%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (95%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (95%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (64%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (91%); NETHERLANDS (73%); UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (53%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); 

COMPANY: ALCATEL NV; ITT CORP; ALCATEL ALSTHOM SA ITT CORP (96%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (95%); ALCATEL-LUCENT NEDERLAND BV (91%); EURONEXT PARIS SA (64%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (62%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALCATEL NV; ITT CORP; ALCATEL ALSTHOM SA

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (91%); NETHERLANDS (73%); UNITED STATES (53%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); BOARD CHANGES (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER RAND V ARASKOG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



149 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Positive Economic Signals Bolster Dollar Worldwide

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar advanced strongly on world currency markets yesterday after the release of new data showing the United States economy might be recovering.
Gold prices were mostly lower. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery settled at $350.40 an ounce, off $1 from Monday. The Republic National Bank said gold fell to a late bid of $350.35 an ounce, off 95 cents. 
 Analysts said the dollar was helped by a series of Government reports on the economy that were better than the market had expected. The most influential was a Commerce Department report showing the index of leading economic indicators, its chief forecasting gauge, jumped nine-tenths of 1 percent in January. It was the first gain in three months and suggested the nation would escape a renewed recession this year.
 
New-Home Sales
 The Government also said that sales of new homes soared 12.9 percent in January, the biggest gain in a year.
Although the dollar rose on the data, traders said the advance was held in check by continued uncertainty over whether a recovery could be sustained.
"Market players are still very reluctant to buy dollars because some are still expecting weakness to show up" in the coming jobless report, said Marc Chandler, an analyst with the advisory firm IDEA. The Labor Department is scheduled to release the February employment data on Friday.
"It has to become really clear that the recovery is on track" before the dollar will move out of its trading range, said Earl Johnson, a vice president at the Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago.
Mr. Johnson noted that Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, had played down the growing enthusiasm in his Congressional testimony, stressing that the outlook is murky.
In Tokyo, the dollar rose to 129.94 Japanese yen, from 129.53 on Monday. Later in London, it rose to 130.85 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 131.03 yen, up from 129.65 late on Monday.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.7395, from $1.7540 late on Monday. In New York, it cost $1.7377 to buy a pound, less expensive than Monday's $1.7533.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's rates, included: 1.6585 German marks, up from 1.6433; 1.5090 Swiss francs, up from 1.4905; 5.6340 French francs, up from 5.5835; 1,243.00 Italian lire, up from 1,232.75, and 1.1918 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1871.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (82%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); GERMAN MARK (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); TESTIMONY (63%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



150 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Canada's Lumber: Subsidized or Not?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
IS the Canadian Government subsidizing exports of lumber? Trade hawks in the Commerce Department do not doubt it, and have begun a counterattack. If the rest of official Washington can be brought around to the hawks' side, the result could be a nasty spat with the United States' largest trading partner -- not to mention double-digit inflation in lumber prices that builders in the United States say would add as much as $1,000 to the price of a house.
That, of course, is sufficient reason to be interested in this long-simmering case. But for economists, there is an added bonus: The issue of the lumber subsidy is one of those odd corners of trade law where legal reasoning and economic theory collide. 
 Most of the wood in Canada comes from public forests. Provincial governments decide how much should be harvested, and set the "stumpage" fees private companies must pay to harvest it. Both sides in the trade dispute agree that the provinces turn a profit on the arrangement.
But that is about all they agree on. Lumber companies in the United States say that Canada keeps fees low -- lower than a private forest owner would -- in order to create jobs in logging and lumber. And they insist that this benefit to Canadian loggers amounts to a subsidy, giving the Canadian lumber exporters an unfair advantage over its competitors.
The Canadians contend that this "subsidy" has largely been eliminated in recent years, as the provinces raised their stumpage fees to sums near free market rates.
But in any case, they insist -- and here is the most unintuitive part -- that the size of the stumpage fees is no business of the Yanks.
Canadian subsidies, they argue, should matter to United States lumber companies only if they affect the quantity of Canadian lumber exported. And since Canada establishes a target for the quantity of logs to be harvested at the biologically sustainable yield and then sets stumpage fees low enough to induce private loggers to do the cutting, all the stumpage fees really affect is the division of the profit between Canadian taxpayers and Canadian loggers.
Suppose, for example, it costs $50 to harvest logs that can be sold for $80. Loggers would rather pay, say, $10 for the right to cut than the $30 the right might fetch at an auction. But they are willing to do the cutting at either price, adding exactly the same number of logs to the market supply.
Were this the end of the argument -- and it was, the last time the lumber pot boiled over in 1986 -- it would be a perfect case of economists and lawyers talking past each other. But this time around, the United States lumber industry has decided to challenge the economic assumption behind the Canadian case.
Canada may set targets for logging, but the actual size of the harvest is left to loggers. And by setting stumpage fees at bargain rates, industry consultants argue, Canadian producers have an incentive to cut trees that would otherwise not be profitable to harvest.
The key economic question, then, is whether supplies of logs do in fact respond to changes in stumpage fees. But that may not be the key legal question.
It is entirely possible -- indeed likely -- that the Commerce Department will rule tomorrow that Canadian lumber is subsidized without ever deciding whether the subsidy affects the quantity or price of Canadian exports.
Then, another Federal agency, the United States International Trade Commission, may decide that Canadian exports are injuring domestic lumber producers without ever coming to grips with the issue of whether the subsidies are the source of injury.
If they do, Canadian lumber will be subject to a "countervailing" tariff equal to the subsidy. And since there are no ready alternatives to imports of Canadian lumber, lumber prices in the United States are likely to climb by almost the same amount. United States lumber producers will gain a multibillion-dollar windfall at the expense of home buyers.
There is, however, a way out -- one, paradoxically, that should appeal to both sides. United States lumber makers quietly concede that if harvest rights in Canada were auctioned to the highest bidder and if United States lumber companies were permitted to purchase logs directly from Canadian loggers, there would be no basis for pursuing a trade case.
Since the Canadians insist that stumpage fees do not affect production or prices, a switch to an auction system should not cost Canadians any jobs. The only real change would be a transfer of income from loggers to the provincial treasuries -- a change that ought to be welcomed by the great majority of Canadians.
Anyone for a deal?

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; UNITED STATES CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

SUBJECT: WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US) FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (91%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); HOME PRICES (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



151 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1803 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Primaries;
CLINTON WINS GEORGIA PRIMARY AND TSONGAS TAKES MARYLAND; PROTEST ERODES BUSH VICTORIES

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Wednesday, March 4

 BODY:
The Democratic Presidential campaign moved decisively toward a two-man struggle Tuesday as Gov. Bill Clinton won convincingly in Georgia and former Senator Paul E. Tsongas prevailed in Maryland.
President Bush won in Georgia what would normally be considered a comfortable victory, but Patrick J. Buchanan, his conservative challenger, once again showed the strength of a Republican protest vote in times of economic discontent. Mr. Bush's margin of about 64 percent to Mr. Buchanan's 36 percent reflected a high percentage of votes from women, according to surveys of voters leaving polling places.
 
Brown Shows Strength
 The voting in the three major Democratic primaries Tuesday -- in Georgia, Colorado and Maryland -- carried grim news for Senators Tom Harkin of Iowa and Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, both of whom lagged at the back of the pack. But former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California, with a surprisingly strong showing in Colorado, seemed to get a toehold for his campaign against politics as usual. 
 In Georgia, with 99 percent of the vote counted, Mr. Clinton had 57 percent of the vote to 24 percent for Mr. Tsongas.
In Maryland, with all the votes tallied, Mr. Tsongas was on top, 41 percent to Mr. Clinton's 34 percent.
And in Colorado, with 95 percent of the vote counted, Mr. Brown had 30 percent of the vote to 28 percent for Mr. Clinton. Mr. Tsongas was third at 26 percent.
 
Setting the Stage
 Over all, the voting set the stage for a major confrontation between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Tsongas over economic policy in the 11 contests to be held next week, on Super Tuesday. The Arkansas Governor, who backs a tax cut for the middle class, took a populist tone Tuesday night as he assailed the former Massachusetts Senator as a man who "wants a refined version of 1980's trickle-down economics."
Mr. Tsongas, who opposes a tax cut for the middle class, asserted Tuesday night that his campaign would not "pander" but would "treat the voters as adults." He emphasized his appeal to independent voters, but the primary calendar over the next few weeks, with its emphasis on core Democratic constituencies such as black voters, could help Mr. Clinton.
There were 383 delegates at stake in the voting. The apportionment of those delegates will not occur until the final tallies are known, although Mr. Clinton and Mr. Tsongas obviously fared well. Coming into this primary day, Mr. Brown had 10 delegates, Mr. Clinton had 100, Mr. Harkin had 76, Mr. Kerrey had 23 and Mr. Tsongas had 29, according to a tally by The New York Times. A nominating majority is 2,145.
The voting was the first of the primary season that truly tested the candidates' national appeal, with voting in seven states. A primary was held in Utah, and caucuses took place in Minnesota, Idaho and Washington. The Democratic candidates were in a fight for credibility and, in some cases, survival, while Mr. Bush was struggling to end Mr. Buchanan's embarrassing challenge. This phase of the race has been bitter, mean-spirited and very personal.
At the White House on Tuesday night, President Bush issued a statement saying the elections brought him "another step closer to our goal of winning every primary and caucus." But he also addressed those who voted against him, saying: "I hear your concerns and understand your frustration with Washington. I am committed to regaining your support."
The White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said he believed that those disaffected voters would return to Mr. Bush by November, although some polls suggest otherwise. But he added, "It's not helpful to have this kind of discontent being sowed by members of our own party."
After the three major primaries, Mr. Harkin and Mr. Kerrey faced the danger of being counted out of the race. Mr. Harkin was campaigning in the South this week, hoping to revive his campaign. Mr. Kerrey said he was troubled by his showing but would try to stay in the race.
Mr. Brown might have been the surprise of the day, with his strong showing in Colorado. And Mr. Clinton could point to strong showings outside his base.
For Mr. Tsongas, the day was an important rite of passage required for any candidate who rockets from obscurity to prominence with a victory in New Hampshire. His showing in Maryland and elsewhere tonight demonstrated his ability to compete outside his region. "I don't think we have to prove anything anymore," said Dennis Kanin, campaign manager for the former Massachusetts Senator. "All we have to do is win the nomination."
In Georgia, Mr. Clinton demonstrated that he could hold an important state in his Southern base. Surveys of people leaving the voting places in Georgia showed the Arkansas Governor drawing three-fourths of the black vote, a good omen for the primaries next week on Super Tuesday, since blacks cast a fourth or a third of the Democratic primary ballots in many Southern states.
 
Who Is Better Off?
 Mr. Clinton also ran well among older voters, and among those who felt that their family financial situation was worse today than it was four years ago.
Mr. Tsongas, on the other hand, had a decidedly upscale look to his support: He drew 4 in 10 of the voters with postgraduate educations, for example, and he ran well among voters who said they were better off today than they were four years ago.
Mr. Clinton, who campaigned in Florida today, was already signaling the rough new phase of his battle with Mr. Tsongas, casting it as a choice between what Mr. Clinton calls his "people-based economics" and what he disdains as Mr. Tsongas's "more refined version of what we did in the 1980's." Mr. Clinton has said his rival focuses on the needs of big business.
The Georgia contest attracted slightly more than 750,000 voters, or about 30 percent of those registered in both parties.
On the Republican side, where Georgia was the only state that Mr. Buchanan emphasized, the voter surveys showed that Mr. Bush drew a lot of women's votes. While men split nearly evenly between the President and Mr. Buchanan, 7 in 10 women voted for Mr. Bush. This gap between men and women was apparent in New Hampshire, and the Bush campaign tried to stoke it with a commercial in Georgia which asserted that Mr. Buchanan believes women to be psychologically unsuited for certain jobs.
Once again, Mr. Buchanan's plea to "send a message" to Mr. Bush seemed to appeal to a sizable minority of Republican voters. One-fourth of those surveyed said they picked their candidate to "send a message," and almost 90 percent of them voted for Mr. Buchanan.
The conservative commentator also seemed to benefit from economic discontent here, as he did in New Hampshire. About a quarter of those surveyed said their finances were worse today than four years ago, and two-thirds voted for Mr. Buchanan. Those who felt they were better off overwhelmingly voted for Mr. Bush.
 
'Quota Bill' Is Invoked
 The racial "quota" issue, which Mr. Buchanan hit hard when the race moved to the South, was not among the top issues cited by Republican primary voters as key to their votes. Mr. Buchanan made a striking racial appeal here, with a television commercial showing mostly white children while an announcer intones that Mr. Bush was closing doors on them because he had signed a "quota bill."
But judging from the exit polls, the issues that were far more important to Republican primary voters were the economy, taxes, education, health care and American competitiveness in the world marketplace. Still, another issue that Mr. Buchanan has hit relentlessly -- Mr. Bush's breaking of his "no new taxes" pledge -- did seem to strike a chord with Republican primary voters. A third said it was a factor in their decision, and three-quarters of them said they gave their votes to Mr. Buchanan.
Those voters who felt that experience was an important quality in a President gave their support, overwhelmingly, to Mr. Bush. Those who said family values were important were divided between the two.
Mr. Buchanan, who spent much of Tuesday campaigning before conservative Christians in South Carolina, returned to Atlanta to declare: "The battle of Georgia is now over, and it is won. The battle of the South now begins." Still, the Bush allies are hopeful that Mr. Buchanan will gradually wear down, that his campaign will lose much of its energy as it becomes clear that defeat is inevitable in state after state.
Mr. Buchanan did not seem deflated in his remarks, however. "The lights are burning late in the chanceries of the eastern liberal establishment," he declared. "Up in New Hampshire, after our great victory there, they said, "Well, he's just a one-state candidate. My friends, we are a one-nation candidate."
Despite his trip to South Carolina, the scene of the next primary on Saturday, the Buchanan campaign is apparently realistic about its prospects there. Mr. Bush's political operation, under Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr., is particularly strong in South Carolina. Mr. Buchanan was rolling on to Super Tuesday, to Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas, Massachusetts and Rhode Island, his campaign said.
 
Defining a Two-Man Race
 In other Democratic contests on Tuesday, Mr. Tsongas won Utah's primary, with Mr. Brown second. And a poll conducted by the Democratic party in the Minnesota caucuses showed Mr. Harkin with the edge there.
But increasingly, Mr. Tsongas and Mr. Clinton are behaving as if this were a two-man race. Mr. Clinton's top strategist, James Carville, gave a taste of the attacks to come when he told reporters today that Mr. Tsongas had received remarkably gentle treatment from the news media, and that this would quickly change. "So far, he's been a protected species," Mr. Carville said. "He's been sort of the snail darter of American politics."
Referring to the woman who accused Mr. Clinton of having a 12-year affair with her, and to Mr. Tsongas's economic proposals, Mr. Carville added: "How many more people know about Gennifer Flowers than know that he wants to triple the Federal tax on gasoline?" Mr. Clinton has denied the woman's accusations.
 
Tsongas in New York
 Mr. Tsongas, meanwhile, was talking like a front-runner in New York on Tuesday and going after President Bush. "As President, he does not have the steel to give the necessary bad news on the economy," Mr. Tsongas said.
Mr. Clinton clearly benefited from strong political support in Georgia today, where he was backed by both Gov. Zell Miller and Mayor Maynard Jackson of Atlanta. Moreover, two-thirds of the Democratic primary voters said the controversy over Mr. Clinton's draft status had no effect on their votes.
On another issue, Mr. Tsongas's health, three-quarters of those polled said his battle with cancer several years ago did not affect their vote.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 5, 1992, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page picture caption yesterday about Paul E. Tsongas described the scene incorrectly in some copies. The picture, in which Mr. Tsongas was shown smiling, was made Tuesday night in Columbia, S.C., after his victory in the Maryland primary.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush bundling up as he arrived yesterday in a chilly Chicago to speak to an evangelical group. Gov. Bill Clinton, top left, spoke to supporters last night at a rally in Miami. Paul E. Tsongas talked to reporters yesterday during a fund-raising event at a restaurant in lower Manhattan (Associated Press; Jim Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California greeting supporters yesterday during a campaign stop at Arizona State University in Tempe. (Associated Press) (pg. A16)
 
Table: "Results"

 	 	 	 	 	 		Colo.	Ga.	Md.	Idaho*	Utah	DEMOCRATS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Delegates at stake	47	76	67	18	23	Precincts reporting	95%	99%	100%	100%	99%	 	 	 	 	 	 	Brown	30%	8%	8%	5%	28%	Clinton	28	57	33	12	8	Harkin	2	2	6	30	4	Kerrey	12	5	5	8	11	Tsongas	26	24	41	29	34	Other	1	4	7	17	5	 	 	 	 	 	 	REPUBLICANS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Delegates at stake	37	52	42		 	There was	 	 	 	 	Precincts reporting	99%	99%	100%		 	no Republican	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Buchanan	30%	36%	30%		 	voting in	 	 	 	 	Bush	68	64	70		 	Idaho and Utah.	 	 	 	 	Other	2	0	0	 	 	Vote percentages do not translate directly into numbers of delegates.
"Other" includes other candidates and uncommitted delegates.
*Idaho is a caucus state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (96%); COLORADO, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GEORGIA; UTAH; MARYLAND; COLORADO UNITED STATES (96%); MARYLAND, USA (96%); COLORADO, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES; ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN ; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); TSONGAS, PAUL E; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BROWN, EDMUND G JR; KERREY, BOB (SEN); HARKIN, TOM (SEN); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JERRY BROWN (91%); TOM HARKIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1992



152 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Voters;
Clinton Draft Issue Doesn't Sway Most in Georgia

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 3

 BODY:
Four of five Georgia voters said their opinion of Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas was not adversely affected by questions about his draft status during the Vietnam War, but more than a third of those who voted against him said the issue had a negative impact on their view of him, according to interviews with voters leaving polling places today.
On the Republican side, the interviews with voters conducted by Voter Research and Surveys showed that Patrick J. Buchanan's challenge to President Bush drew most of its support from voters with the most negative views of both the national economy and their own financial status. 
 Both factors could loom large as the campaign moves toward next week's "Super Tuesday" showdown, which includes primaries in Texas, Florida and five other Southern states or states that border the South.
Mr. Clinton's strong showing in Georgia indicated that questions about his personal life and character were apparently a factor, but not a critical one, with voters in the most conservative, pro-military part of the nation.
 
Varying on Draft Issue
 About two-thirds of the voters said accusations that Mr. Clinton tried to avoid the Vietnam draft did not affect their vote. One in 10 said it even made them look on him more favorably. The findings bode well for his hopes in other conservative Southern states.
But about half of those who said the issue made them look less favorably on Mr. Clinton voted for his closest rival, Paul E. Tsongas, indicating that the issue could be important for a significant minority of the electorate and could hurt Mr. Clinton in a close contest.
The interviews showed a stark breakdown in education and economic status between supporters of Mr. Clinton and Mr. Tsongas, the former Massachusetts Senator, who finished second in the Georgia voting. Mr. Tsongas's support was higher among voters with more education and wealth.
Eight of 10 voters without a high school diploma voted for Mr. Clinton, and about 1 in 10 of those voted for Mr. Tsongas. Among high school graduates, 7 of 10 voted for Mr. Clinton and about 1 in 10 voted for Mr. Tsongas. At the other extreme, about one in three voters with post graduate education voted for Mr. Clinton while two in five of those voted for Mr. Tsongas.
Part of the breakdown probably reflects Mr. Clinton's overwhelming success with black voters, but the pattern also held among white voters.
With the Rev. Jesse Jackson absent from the race, blacks dropped from 36 percent of the Democratic primary vote in 1988 to 29 percent today. Almost three of four black voters backed Mr. Clinton. Black support could leave him well positioned in South Carolina, where blacks are expected to make up about 40 percent of the primary vote on Saturday as well as in some Super Tuesday states like Louisiana and Mississippi.
 
Older Voters for Clinton
 Mr. Clinton also fared best with older voters and those who said they were Democrats, indicating the degree to which support from party officials probably worked in his behalf. He has the support of most of the established party leadership in the region.
In the Republican contest, the interviews with voters underscored the degree to which Mr. Buchanan's campaign is feeding off economic frustrations.
One in five voters rated the national economy as good. Of those, 8 in 10 voted for President Bush. Just over one in five rated the economy poor, and 7 in 10 of those voters backed Mr. Buchanan.
Similarly, 3 in 10 Republican voters said the finances of their own family had improved over the last four years. Of those, about 8 in 10 voted for President Bush.
About a quarter of the voters said their own finances had got worse during that period. Of those, almost 7 out of 10 voted for Mr. Buchanan.
Economics could be particularly important in Louisiana, the most hard-hit state in the South and one where Mr. Buchanan is hoping to score an outright victory over Mr. Bush next week.
The Republican vote also showed a stark gap between men and women. Mr. Buchanan almost matched Mr. Bush's vote among men, getting just under half of their votes. But more than 7 in 10 women who voted in the Republican primary voted for Mr. Bush.
For all its fury, the Buchanan vote seems to be more an attempt to send a message than to replace Mr. Bush. About 6 in 10 Buchanan voters said they had voted for him to send a message, rather than because they thought he would make the best President.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Georgia Voters: Democrats"

 	 	 	 	 	% of			 	 	Voted for	 	 	Total		Clinton	Tsongas	Brown	 	 	 	 	 	Race	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	70	Whites	52	27	7	29	Blacks	72	14	5	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	Education	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10	Less than high school	80	13	2	27	High school graduate	71	11	3	24	Some college	54	23	9	19	College graduate	49	31	9	19	Post graduate study	36	42	7	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	Political Identification	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	66	Democrats	65	20	4	29	Independents	44	28	11	5	Republicans	28	52	10	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	Family Financial Situation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	14	Better today than four years ago	43	38	9	37	About the same as four years ago	59	24	5	47	Worse today than four years ago	60	19	7	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	Issues that mattered	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	52	Economy, jobs	55	28	5	31	Health care	57	23	5	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	"Georgia Voters: Democrats" (cont'd)	 	 	 	 	 	 	% of			 	 	Voted for	 	 	Total		Kerrey	Harkin	Uncom-					mitted	 	 	 	 	 	Race	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	70	Whites	6	2	6	29	Blacks	3	1	5	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	Education	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	10	Less than high school	1	1	4	27	High school graduate	6	1	7	24	Some college	6	3	6	19	College graduate	5	2	4	19	Post graduate study	8	3	4	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	Political Identification	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	66	Democrats	6	1	4	29	Independents	4	3	8	5	Republicans	2	3	5	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	Family Financial Situation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	14	Better today than four years ago	5	1	3	37	About the same as four years ago	5	1	6	47	Worse today than four years ago	6	3	5	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	Issues that mattered	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	52	Economy, jobs	5	2	4	31	Health care	7	2	5	 (Based on a poll conducted by Voter Research and Surveys of 1,525 Democratic primary voters leaving 40 polling places throughout Georgia on Tuesday.)
 
Table: "Georgia Voters: Republicans"

 	 	 	 	% of			 	Voted for	 	 	Total		Bush	Buchanan	 	 	 	 	Sex	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	54	Men	53	47	46	Women	72	28	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Political Identification	 	 	 	 	 	 	58	Republicans	69	31	33	Independents	54	46	9	Democrats	37	63	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Family Financial Situation	 	 	 	 	 	 	30	Better today than four years ago	79	21	43	About the same as four years ago	65	35	26	Worse today than four years ago	35	65	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Main reason for voting for a candidate	 	 	 	 	 	 	72	Because he would make the	 	 		best President	79	21	25	To send a message	12	88	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Issues that mattered most:	 	 	34	Economy, jobs	60	40	24	Taxes	48	52	22	U.S. ability to compete economically	67	33	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Candidate qualities that mattered most:	 	 	39	Experience	96	4	19	Will uphold family values	56	44	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	George Bush breaking his no new taxes pledge . . .	35	Was a very important factor	23	77	62	Not a very important factor	83	17	 (Based on a poll conducted by Voter Research and Surveys of 1,400 Republican primary voters leaving 40 polling places throughout Georgia on Tuesday.)
 
How the Poll Was Conducted
 The Election Day poll was based on questionnaires completed by voters as they left voting stations throughout Georgia on Tuesday.
 The poll was conducted by Voter Research and Surveys, an organization created in 1990 by ABC News, CBS News, CNN, and NBC News.
 The results are based on 1,525 voters in the Democratic primary, and 1,400 voters in the Republican primary, located in 40 randomly selected precincts across the state.
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from such polls should differ by only a few percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all primary election voters who turned out in Georgia on Tuesday. The sampling error was 4 percentage points in each of the primaries for Democrats and Republicans.
 Results based on smaller subgroups have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on Election Day may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ROBERT W BEST (55%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1992



153 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS -- Advertising;
A Very Good Year for Cable: Ad Sales Jumped 18% in '91

BYLINE: By Geraldine Fabrikant

 BODY:
IT may have been a tough year for the television networks to attract advertising dollars, but the cable TV industry racked up yet another increase in ad revenues, according to the Cable Bureau of Advertising.
Cable ad sales jumped to $3.02 billion in 1991, an 18 percent increase from the previous year. Of that, two-thirds was spent on cable networks, and the rest on regional networks or local advertising. 
 The extraordinary growth came partly because of coverage of the Persian Gulf war and Major League Baseball. But in absolute terms, the increase represents a smaller number of dollars than a comparable percentage increase would in network television.
Since 1981, when basic-cable billings totaled $121 million, or just 1 percent of all television and cable spending, the percentage of dollars going to cable has been rising sharply, so that last year, when advertisers spent a total of $28.9 billion on TV and cable, about 10 percent went to cable.
But even the cable industry expects growth to slow in 1992. Larry Gerbrandt, a cable programming expert at Paul Kagan Associates, a consulting firm in Carmel, Calif., that tracks cable spending, forecasts about a 15 percent increase next year. And advertising agency executives are not quite that optimistic.
Historically, cable buyers pay less to reach each viewer, usually about a 50 percent discount, Mr. Gerbrandt said. The discount is partly because cable still does not reach the entire TV universe, and that worries some national advertisers.
But over the last year, the difference has declined somewhat, according to Richard Castera, the executive vice preisdent and United States director of media services at J. Walter Thompson. It has not been so much the cable services raising their prices as the broadcast networks cutting theirs, thus closing the gap, Mr. Castera explained.
The cost of reaching every 1,000 viewers has "come down at the networks," Mr. Castera said. "It is certainly not unheard of to get 15 percent to 20 percent below last year's up-front costs."
Of course, the cutbacks at the networks reflect the general economic environment. Advertisers are simply not spending as much. "As the pressure continues at the top, it filters down to the bottom," Mr. Castera said, referring to the cable networks. "In this market, it is getting tougher, even for companies in a growth mode, to attract new dollars."
Betsy Frank, the senior vice president at Saatchi & Saatchi, agrees that cable spending will continue to rise, though not as fast as in recent years.
Ms. Frank said her firm generally put about 6 percent of clients' advertising dollars into cable. The balance goes into network, local and spot television, as well as the Fox Broadcasting Company. "I don't know that we will see it jump to 7 or 9 percent," she said. "It won't change that much."
And she added that there are now more places to put money, including, for example, Fox. "Everybody is getting smarter about how to attract dollars," Ms. Frank said. "The networks have to compete harder."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO; SEARS ROEBUCK & CO FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); JWT (66%); PAUL KAGAN ASSOCIATES INC (55%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (51%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO; SEARS ROEBUCK & CO MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: TIRES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); CABLE TELEVISION (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); CABLE INDUSTRY (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); TIRE MFG (79%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); DESERT STORM (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TIRES (65%); BASEBALL (55%); 

PERSON: RICHARD CASTERA (88%); BETSY FRANK (77%); LARRY GERBRANDT (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1992



154 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: The 1980's: A Very Good Time for the Very Rich

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
Populist politicians, economists and ordinary citizens have long suspected that the rich have been getting richer. What is making people sit up now is recent evidence that the richest 1 percent of American families appears to have reaped most of the gains from the prosperity of the last decade and a half.
An outsized 60 percent of the growth in the average after-tax income of all American families between 1977 and 1989 -- and an even heftier three-fourths of the gain in average pretax income -- went to the wealthiest 660,000 families, each of which had an annual income of at least $310,000 a year, for a household of four. 
 While the number of American families grew from 52 million to 66 million and total income expanded by $583 billion inflation-adjusted dollars during the Carter-Reagan years, the slice belonging to the top 1 percent grew by $190 billion, giving them 13 percent of all family income, up from 9 percent.
 
Big Jump in Income
 The average pretax income of families in the top percent swelled to $560,000 from $315,000, for a 77 percent gain in a dozen years, again in constant dollars. At the same time, the typical American family -- smack in the middle, or at the median, of the income distribution -- saw its income edge up only 4 percent, to $36,000. And the bottom 40 percent of families had actual declines in income.
"We know that productivity has increased since 1977 and that more people are working," said Paul Krugman, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the author of "The Age of Diminished Expectations," a book that is critical of Reaganomics. "Where did all that extra income go? The answer is that it all went to the very top."
The data were compiled by the Congressional Budget Office, the research arm of Congress, which uses the estimates to project tax revenues; the figures were released in final form in December. The census data that most economists use track incomes by broad categories, like the top 20 percent, called the top quintile. The C.B.O. data, by building on figures from tax returns, let analysts focus on narrow income striations with microscopic precision.
"If changes are going on at the top, you don't pick it up in the census data," said Robert Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget Office.
The broad pattern disclosed by the latest data is not in dispute, but the reasons for the shift are. Potential explanations range from the trend toward lower taxes on the wealthy to an explosion of executive pay to higher returns on capital.
It was not until economists started to analyze the figures that it became clear what a large share of the income gains in recent years was accounted for by the very rich. "The number that no one had seen was how much of the growth went to a few people," said Mr. Krugman, who focused on the numbers in testimony before Congress several weeks ago.
That finding is already supplying fresh ammunition for those eager to reverse the upward tilt in income distribution or searching for new ways to raise Government revenue.
The tax bills wending their way through Congress include an increase in the top tax rate and a surtax on millionaires. And the Democratic Party is honing "fairness" as an issue it can run with.
As it happens, the trend seems to have begun 30 years ago and parallels shifts in other rich countries, including Germany and Britain.
"It's been going on since the 1960's," said Robert Avery, an economist at Cornell University who conducted two Federal Reserve surveys of the wealthy in the 1980's. "It shows up in many different sets of data. And it's consistent with different explanations, healthy and unhealthy."
In fact, a growing tilt toward the top has characterized other periods in American history. Economic historians say that industrial America through the 1800's and early 1900's experienced a growing concentration of riches at the top. But that was partly reversed by the Depression and World War II.
"We have a couple of periods when we've seen especially rapid changes," said Claudia Goldin, an economic historian at Harvard University.
The latest data on income distribution do not provide any easy explanation of the trend. One explanation given by some tax experts is that the rich are simply reporting more of their income and taking advantage of fewer loopholes, now that tax rates have been trimmed substantially. The top tax rate on personal income was cut to 31 percent during the Reagan tenure from more than 90 percent during the Kennedy years.
"The reason is that suddenly you can keep most of the money you report," said Lawrence Lindsay, a Federal Reserve governor who wrote a book, "The Growth Experiment," that defended the supply-side tax cuts of the Reagan era.
 
The Advantages of Timing
 Most economists find the explanation plausible. Unlike steelworkers or secretaries, business owners and executives often have a lot of discretion over the timing and form of their income. They can decide when, say, to sell a business or whether to take their compensation in a paycheck or a bunch of stock options.
"Inequality has icreased back to where it was before the New Deal," Mr. Krugman said. "But maybe the New Deal only drove the rich underground."
Still, few economists are convinced that the reporting factors are the only explanation.
For one thing, wage and salary income for the top 1 percent of families exploded between 1977 and 1989.At least two studies have shown that the rich -- wealthy wives, in particular -- actually worked more after taxes were cut. More important, the pay of chief executives rocketed during the 1980's. By the end of the decade, according to Graef Crystal, a compensation consultant, the bosses were making 120 times as much as the average worker, compared with about 35 times as much in the mid-1970's.
Before these new data showed how much of the gains really went to the very top, economists knew of the growing inequality and explained some of it by pointing to the rise in two-earner couples and the faster wage growth of highly educated workers, especially ones with computer skills. But the surge in pay at the top is just too large to be explained solely by working wives and M.B.A. degrees.
Another theory is that inhibitions against pay inequality crumbled during the Reagan 80's, a period in which unions were put down and getting rich through enterprise was seen as heroic.
The families at the top of the top quintile include lawyers married to other lawyers and a sprinkling of rock and baseball stars. But the majority probably own closely held businesses or manage Fortune 500 companies. Another thing that makes these families different from the merely well heeled, said Joel Slemrod, a tax economist at the University of Michigan, is that they get about half their income from their wealth -- capital gains, dividends and interest. And income from assets owned by the wealthy, like real estate, stocks and bonds, also surged in the 1980's.
For most of the 1980's at least, interest rates were high, the stock market appreciated some 16 percent a year and the price of real estate on the East and West Coasts soared. The value of small-business assets also grew, Mr. Avery said. "The argument that the rise in top incomes was partly driven by entrepreneurial income is fairly persuasive," he said.
In fact, there is new evidence that net worth -- assets minus debt -- at the very top also grew disproportionately. The Federal Reserve has yet to release data with breakdowns, but a recent Fed study suggests that that was the case.
 
Changing Places
 While some view the greater concentration of income at the top as a problem, many economists do not agree. "The probability that you're looking at the same people at the start or end of a decade is very small," Mr. Lindsay said. "If the top 1 percent is getting richer, it means that there was a lot of upward mobility in America during this period."
Mr. Lindsay cites tax data that show that of the families in the top 1 percent at the beginning of a decade, fewer than half are in the top 1 percent 10 years later. From year to year, he said, between a quarter and a third of families move from one broad income group, like the top 20 percent, to another.
Keep in mind, moreover, that 1989, the last year for which Congressional Budget Office numbers are available, represented the peak of the 1980's financial boom. The early 1990's have already clipped the wings of a lot of high-fliers as corporations have shed executives, law firms have downsized, businesses have failed and real estate values have collapsed.
But it is easy to exaggerate fluidity at the very top, some economists say. For one thing, the rich may get knocked off their perches from time to time, but the fall for most is not usually all that far. Then too, an income drop is as likely as not to reflect a decision to take a one-time loss than it is a permanent change in the ability to generate income.
Besides, said Frank Sammartino, an economist at the C.B.O.: "People complain that the income distribution is just a snapshot of one year. But after all, taxes get paid on one year's income."
 
The Tax Factor
 Although families in the top 1 percent paid slightly less than 27 percent of their income in taxes in 1989, compared with more than 35 percent in 1977, their payments amounted to a somewhat bigger share of the total Federal tax bill than in 1977. The reason, of course, is because their incomes grew so much.
With incomes that total near half a trillion dollars - about the same amount, coincidentally, as total Federal tax revenues - the top 1 percent of American families have a lot of financial heft.
"If you're talking about the income tax bubble or capital gains, it's not the top 5 percent or the top 10 percent, but the top 1 percent," Mr. Avery said. "If they're taxed at 100 percent, everybody else can be taxed at zero," he added jokingly.
The data are going to keep economists busy for years and should pay fat dividends for Americans' understanding of how the freewheeling United States economy really works. But, for the present, the numbers are bound to provide yet another battleground for politicians arguing over which tax policy will produce the best combination of growth and "fairness."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "From '77 to '89, pretax income of the rich grew sharply. . ."

 	 	 			1989			average			income	Top 1%	77%	$559,800	Top fifth	29 	109,400	2d fifth	9 	47,900	3d fifth	4 	32,700	4th fifth	-1 	20,100	Bottom fifth	-9 	8,400	 Figures have been adjusted for inflation.
 
". . . and the rich reaped most of the after-tax gains, too."
 * The richest 1% of families received 60% of the after-tax income gain.
 * 14% -- Portion received by families with incomes in the top 2% through 5% of the population.
 * 20% -- Portion received by families with incomes in the top 6% through 20%.
 * 5% -- Portion received by families with incomes below the top 20%.
 
(Sources: Congressional Budget Office; Paul Krugman of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (66%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME FAMILY (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); TRENDS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); CENSUS (70%); WRITERS (63%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA RONALD REAGAN (78%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



155 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
SPECTER OF NEW CAMBODIAN CHAOS
Four months after the signing of a peace treaty, Cambodians warn that only the swift arrival of United Nations forces can prevent anarchy. The Government has stopped providing medical care, education and sanitation in rural areas. A1
 
MON DIEU!
Political correctness threatens "La Marseillaise," France's revolutionary anthem. Campaigners would replace martial lyrics with brotherly phrases to show that French patriots no longer dream of spilling the "tainted blood" of foreigners. A1 

LITTLE CAPITAL FLOWS EAST
More than two years after the demise of Communism, only a few Western businesses are willing to invest in Eastern Europe. A1
Treasury Secretary Brady says he expects I.M.F. aid for Russia. A6
 
DIFFERENT DRUMMERS
The perils in the dispute over military control between Russia and Ukraine was illustrated at Uzin, a strategic-bomber base south of Kiev. A3
 
DEATH UNDERGROUND IN TURKEY
More than 200 Turkish coal miners were believed dead after a methane-gas explosion near the Black Sea. Rescue workers said they had abandoned hope for others. A7
 
ISRAEL ARRESTS 4 IN KILLINGS
The Israeli police said they had arrested four Israeli Arabs and charged them with hacking and stabbing to death three Jewish soldiers at an isolated army outpost last month. The four were said to belong to the Islamic Holy War. 8
 
STAGNANT, MIDEAST TALKS RECESS
Israelis and Arabs ended a third round of talks as divided on substance as they were when they began four months ago, and unable to agree when and where to meet again. Secretary of State Baker urged at least one more round of negotiations, in April. A9
 
Sheeb Journal: In rural Eritrea, it's no time to be a nomad. A4
 
Violence in Nairobi draws warning from the U.S. A5
 
Marking new era, Bulgarian Prime Minister visits Bush. A6
 
Japanese react angrily to Hollings's Hiroshima-Nagasaki remark. A10
 
Qaddafi parries attempt to impose U.N. sanctions. A12
 
National A14-25, B10-12
 
THE TOP TWO, PLUS ONE
After primary victories on Tuesday, Governor Clinton and former Senator Tsongas begin fresh efforts to sell their rival prescriptions for the ailing economy. But as they began campaigning for Super Tuesday, their head-to-head fight was complicated by the emergence of former Governor Brown, a surprise winner in Colorado. A1
 
Senator Kerrey told colleagues that he would quit the race. A23
 
Virtually out of the running, the Harkin camp clung to survival. A23
 
By contrast, the Clinton campaign appears to have hit its stride. A23
 
TSONGAS FIT, HIS DOCTORS SAY
More than five years after he underwent experimental treatment for cancer, his physicians pronounce Mr. Tsongas in good health and say he would have a favorable prognosis for serving out his term as President. A1
 
A WARNING TO BUSH
Surveys of voters in the Georgia, Maryland and Colorado primaries suggest that the President should be concerned more with support among independents than among conservatives. A22
 
Mr. Bush swept southward, General Schwarzkopf at his side. A24
 
How can Pat Buchanan gain the next plateau? A24
 
Senator Bentsen called the Administration a Buchanan hostage. A25
 
THE MOST FOR THE FEWEST
Figures from the Congressional Budget Office show that 60 percent of the growth in after-tax income of all American families from 1977 to 1989 -- and three-fourths of the gain in pretax income -- went to the wealthiest 1 percent. A1
 
FERTILITY DOCTOR FOUND GUILTY
A Federal jury returned fraud and perjury convictions against an infertility specialist who artificially inseminated unwitting patients with his own sperm. A14
 
SENATE CLASH ON PUBLIC TV
A bill to provide financing for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting has collided with conservative Senate Republicans, who say public television stations display a consistent liberal bias in their choice of programs. A14
 
There was a new Senate clash on crime legislation as well. A18
 
DRUG POLICY CHIEF UNDER INQUIRY
The F.B.I. has opened an investigation into whether Bob Martinez, the Bush Administration's Director of Drug Control Policy, improperly spent funds left over from his unsuccessful 1990 campaign for re-election as Governor of Florida. A20
 
Key West Journal: The 29-acre tug-of-war. A14
 
House overwhelmingly rejects President Bush's budget. B10
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
ROADS, MASS TRANSIT AND JOBS
In a move intended to provide thousands of construction jobs while improving mass transit and repairing the worst of New Jersey's battered roads, Transportation Commissioner Thomas M. Downs proposed a $1.5 billion transportation program, the largest in New Jersey's history. A1
 
Business Digest, D1
 
The Home Section C1-11
 
At 88, an undiminished Dr. Spock. C1
Field of dreams comes true in Baltimore. C1
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-24
 
Panel debates "J. F. K" and artistic truth. C15
"Degenerate Art" in Berlin. C15
International photo file of the world's wonders. C19
Theater: Look at Reagan era. C15
 
Sports B16-23
 
Baseball: Los hermanos Perez together on Yanks. B17
First test of spring for Bo Jackson. B17
Hockey: Devils upend Rangers. B17
 
Obituaries B14-15
 
Sandy Dennis, actress B14
Nestor Almendros, cameraman B15
Mendes Hershman, leader in New York legal circles B15
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
President Noodle.
Democracy, good and messy.
The plague of young guns.
 
Letters A26
 
William Safire: China's "Hama Rules." A27
 
Anthony Lewis: The Attorney Corporal. A27
 
William J. Bennett: Be Presidential. Push foreign policy. A27
 
Eileen V. Quigley: How the West was won. A27

GRAPHIC: Photo: Is France's national anthem too bloodthirsty? A1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); FRANCE (93%); UKRAINE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BULGARIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); ERITREA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KENYA (75%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (71%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (75%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); FRANCE (93%); UKRAINE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BULGARIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); ERITREA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KENYA (75%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (71%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PEACE PROCESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ARMIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); GOVERNORS (69%); METHANE (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); RELIGION (65%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); CANCER (60%); ONCOLOGY (60%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (55%); COAL MINING (53%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



156 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Trenton Transit Plan Calls for $1.5 Billion In '93 Construction

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 4

 BODY:
In a move intended to provide thousands of construction jobs while improving mass transit and repairing the worst of the state's battered roads, Transportation Commissioner Thomas M. Downs today proposed a $1.5 billion transportation program, the largest in New Jersey's history.
Mr. Downs said that more than half the projects would be financed by the Federal Government and that the rest would be paid for by the state's Transportation Trust Fund. He said they would require no increase in the pending $15.7 billion budget. 
 Mr. Downs made it clear that carrying out the ambitious program, which he said would generate 43,000 jobs, depended on removing the statutory cap on the Transportation Trust Fund to allow added expenditures and permit the use of fund revenues for some salary and maintenance costs.
The new Republican majority in the Legislature promptly announced that committee hearings would begin on Thursday on legislation to increase the trust fund cap to $565 million, the amount needed to finance the Transportation Department plan, from $365 million. The Legislature, then controlled by the Democrats, temporarily increased the cap last year, but that change expires on June 30.
The Republicans are less enthusiastic about the Florio administration's plan to use the trust fund to pay some salaries and maintenance costs. The Republican bill restricts the Transportation Department and N.J. Transit from using bond money to pay administrative costs.
The result is likely to be some legislative wrangling and perhaps some delay, but neither party wants an ideological difference, however deep, to damage or kill a plan that would produce tens of thousands of jobs in the state, where the unemployment rate in January, the most recent period available, was 6.8 percent.
The package includes both rail and road projects and both new construction and extensive repairs. Included among the requests are these:
*$131.8 million to design and begin construction on two major rail projects in the Meadowlands, the Secaucus Transfer and the Kearny Connection.
*$31.2 million to install electronic toll collection equipment along the Garden State Parkway, the New Jersey Turnpike and the Atlantic City Expressway.
*$30.5 million for repairs to Interstate 80 in Bergen County.
*$100 million to aid county and municipal road projects.
*$70 million for road resurfacing.
*$33 million for the widening of Route 147 in Cape May County.
The transportation package outlined by Mr. Downs would cost $1.46 billion, all of which would be in the capital budgets of the Transportation Department and of N.J. Transit for the 1993 fiscal year, which begins on July 1.
Some of the projects would extend over several years and would require additional appropriations and expenditures as they unfold. Work would begin late this year or early in 1993, for example, on the two major rail projects, the Kearny Connection and the Secaucus Transfer, with ground clearing, road construction and the installation of utilities. But the two projects, which would connect existing rail lines, providing easier access for many commuters to Manhattan, would not be completed until the late 1990's.
In outlining his sweeping proposal, Mr. Downs said:
"Fiscal restraints, recent mandates from Washington and common sense demand new solutions in how we move people and goods. We can no longer build our way out of traffic congestion. We must instead modernize and better manage our existing system."
Beyond building the rail connections, widening and resurfacing roads and upgrading and renovating bridges, the transportation plan would streamline toll collections with new electronic equipment on the New Jersey Turnpike, Garden State Parkway and Atlantic City Expressway; install electronic monitoring and routing equipment along Interstates 80 and 280 and Routes 46, 4 and 3, and use computers to synchronize traffic lights along Route 9 in Ocean, Monmouth and Middlesex Counties and Routes 1 and 9 in Union and Middlesex Counties.
Under the plan, $55 million would be spent to repair I-80 and Route 17 in Bergen County, $14 million would go to repair and design a major rehabilitation of Route 21 through Newark and $3 million would be spent to repair Route 41 in Deptford Township.
Besides the new rail connections, the plan also calls for $42 million to rehabilitate the Paterson train station and begin upgrading the New York, Susquehanna & Western line to provide passenger service. Improvements to the Denville, Elizabeth, Hoboken, Maplewood, Trenton and Rahway rail stations would cost $21 million.
As outlined, the proposal would pool $842 million from the new Federal transportation bill with the money from the state fund providing the rest.
Created in 1984, the trust fund is financed by gasoline taxes, toll road contributions and trucking fees and has authority to issue short-term bonds.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NJ TRANSIT (51%); TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FEDERAL AID (US) URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RAILROAD MAINTENANCE (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (88%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); 

PERSON: KING, WAYNE; DOWNS, THOMAS M (COMR) THOMAS M DOWNS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



157 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
I.B.M. was stripped of its triple-A bond rating by Moody's, which downgraded it two notches, to Aa-2. But analysts saw the move as a blow more to pride than to balance sheet. [Page D1.] 
 The Saudi prince who bought $590 million of Citicorp preferred stock is seeking Fed permission to keep his Citicorp common. [D1.]
L. L. Bean signed a distribution agreement to sell its products in a new chain of retail shops in Japan. [D4.]
Isis Pharmaceuticals said it had received F.D.A. approval to begin human clinical trials of a new class of drugs. [D4.]
In the Drexel case, the F.D.I.C. was still wavering about whether to sign off on the $1.3 billion settlement. [D12.]
K Mart said its earnings soared 19.2 percent, and Venture Stores reported a profit gain of 7.6 percent. [D18.]
Cox Enterprises and Tele-Communications will join in owning Teleport Communications. [D21.]
Honeywell has settled its patent infringement suit against Minolta for $127.5 million and said it was pursuing similar suits against six other camera makers. [D4.]
 
The Economy
Sales of U.S.-made cars and light trucks dipped 13.6 percent in late February, as most analysts concluded that evidence of a recovering automotive market remained slim. [D1.]
Orders to the nation's factories rose for the third time in four months in January, and delinquent mortgages declined. [D2.]
The richest 1 percent of American families reaped most of the gains from the recent prosperity, recent evidence shows. [A1.]
The pharmaceutical industry is going back to nature, scouring the oceans and the jungles for chemicals to fight cancer, AIDS and other diseases. [D1.]
Saying America's leadership role is bound to decline unless its competitiveness improves, a panel appointed by Bush and Congress criticized both the White House and lawmakers. [D2.]
In moving against a law firm that represented a corrupt S.& L., the Government revived an ethical argument about when lawyers should blow the whistle on clients. News Analysis. [D5.]
 
International
The Philippines, Westinghouse and Burns & Roe settled a lawsuit involving assertions that the companies had paid bribes to a Marcos associate to get a contract to build a nuclear plant. [D1.]
Early dreams of a gold rush to Eastern Europe were vastly overblown, it now seems clear. While there has been a trickle of investors, their numbers have remained small. [A1.]
The former Soviet republics can be expected to receive about $4 billion in I.M.F. assistance, Treasury Secretary Brady said. [A6.]
Richard Branson is on the verge of selling Virgin Music, or most of it, in what would be the biggest divestiture of the British entrepreneur's career. [D5.]
 
Markets
Stocks fell in heavy trading, punctuated by a selloff after the I.B.M. downgrading. The Dow fell 21.69, to 3,268.56. [D13.]
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed in light trading, as market participants awaited the employment statistics. [D18.]
The dollar staged an impressive advance, piercing key technical levels in hectic trading. [D19.]
Delivery prices for cattle futures rose sharply, as dealers saw near-term supplies tightening and demand strengthening. [D19.]
 
Today's Columns
Is it an ad or is it a TV show? The latest skirmish centers on a show starring Chester Cheetah, which several groups are moving to block. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D1.]
For connoisseurs of financial fraud, the Amre case appears to have many classic elements. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D12.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (56%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (88%); PHILIPPINES (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (88%); PHILIPPINES (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BONDS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); DIVESTITURES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PREFERRED STOCK (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); LAWYERS (75%); RETAILERS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); CANCER (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); MISC TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); AIDS & HIV (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); CHEMICALS (68%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (67%); PATENT LAW (67%); LEGAL SERVICES (66%); BRIBERY (66%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (66%); ETHICS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (65%); PATENTS (52%); 

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



158 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
ABUSE CASE: TROUBLED HISTORY
A 24-year-old Brooklyn mother charged in the beating death of her 3-year-old daughter had a history of problems caring for her four children, an official with access to case records said. Her children had been taken away two years ago by caseworkers because she had been leaving them unattended and because they were filthy and infected with lice. B3.
 
RIFT IN TRANSIT UNION
As more than 32,000 New York City transit workers began voting this week on a new three-year contract, a deep split has developed within their union. Many members have called for the rejection of the pact endorsed by their leaders, saying that it contains givebacks on health care and inadequate salary increases. B3.
 
WOODHULL IS SAID TO HAVE FAILED REVIEW
In another blow to New York City's hospital system, the major regulatory group has decided to withdraw its accreditation from one of the city's major municipal hospitals, Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center in Brooklyn, after concluding that it does not review enough surgical procedures, hospital administrators said. B3.
 
2 held in robberies of 16 Korean businesses. B2.
Dinkins and Jackson call for new voter drive and crusade against crime. B3.
Suspect in officer's killing commits suicide at Rikers Island. B4.
 
REGION
 
TRANSIT PLAN FOR NEW JERSEY
In a move intended to provide thousands of construction jobs while improving mass transit and repairing the worst of New Jersey's battered roads, the Transportation Commissioner proposed a $1.5 billion transportation program, the largest in the state's history. A1.
 
FLORIO ON FLORIO
Insisting that he "had the right medicine" when he took office two years ago but conceding that he had "a lousy bedside manner," Governor Florio went to Washington to apologize and to proselytize. In an unusual midterm report, he said he had made mistakes but supported his policies as a guide to take the country out of the recession and into the next century. B6.
 
A DEADLY STANDOFF
An 18-hour standoff between the police and a man who had barricaded himself inside a Plainfield, N.J., mansion with the body of his mother-in-law ended when the man shot himself, officials said. B7.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL OBSOLESCENCE
When the Suffolk County Legislature voted to block most of a landmark law banning a host of plastic products environmentalists shed few tears. The have come to view it as something of an anachronism and an embarrassment: plastics, they realized, when tightly compacted in a landfill, are not much worse than paper. News Analysis, B7.
 
INTEGRATING THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
More than 20 years after court orders cracked open a handful of Long Island's traditionally white volunteer fire departments, a dispute over upgrading a park for the exclusive use of volunteer firefighters in a racially mixed neighborhood has reopened questions about the makeup of the departments. B7.
 
Renewing a driver's license, painlessly. Westport Journal, B8.
Plan approved for Roosevelt Raceway. B9.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Pulse: Tuberculosis" compares reported cases of tuberculosis in New York area through Feb. 1992 with same period in 1991.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: WOODHULL MEDICAL&MENTAL HEALTH CENTER (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: WOODHULL MEDICAL&MENTAL HEALTH CENTER (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HOSPITALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SUICIDE (78%); HISTORY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); VOLUNTEERS (75%); HEALTH CARE (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); COUNTIES (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (69%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (68%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ACCREDITATION (68%); MENTAL HEALTH (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); LANDFILLS (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); PLASTICS (53%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



159 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: February's Vehicle Sales Cooled Down

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 4

 BODY:
Sales of North American-made cars and light trucks dipped 13.6 percent in late February, as most analysts concluded that evidence of a recovering automotive market remained slim.
Upticks in the selling rates of domestic vehicles in early February and mid-February had encouraged some automotive analysts and economists to believe an upturn in the market was at hand. Sales had risen 23.8 percent in early February and 4 percent in the middle of the month. But many car buyers are evidently holding back out of caution or because of insufficent disposable income. 
 Other recent economic signs have pointed to a slowly emerging recovery, with the latest report showing the third increase in four months in orders to factories. [Page D2.]
 
Stronger Second Half
 While some auto manufacturers took heart that sales had not collapsed, others thought it might take six more months before car sales became robust. Bob McCurry, executive vice president for United States sales for the Toyota Motor Corporation said: "Falling interest and mortgage rates have helped many consumers free up cash to pay off debts and make necessary purchases. While this is starting to help car sales, it will become more noticeable in the second half of the year."
Car sales in late February, in which there were eight selling days, declined 14.4 percent, to 178,956, compared with 183,017 last year, when there were seven selling days. Percentage changes are based on an average daily selling rate.
The seasonally adjusted annual rate for domestic cars sales was 5.9 million for the last part of the month, the same as the rate for the comparable period last year and down from a rate of 6.2 million in mid-February.
Light-truck sales, which include mini-vans and utility vehicles, were 109,440, a 12.1 percent drop from last year's 108,969.
Harvey Heinbach, automotive analyst for Merrill Lynch in New York, noted that the seasonally adjusted annual rate for domestically produced cars was 6.2 million for all of February, compared with 6.1 million in January.
"It's a glimmer of hope," he said, "but just a glimmer."
With regard to the month-to-month sales increase, James B. Fitzpatrick, General Motors' vice president for communications and marketing, said it "offers a hopeful sign that the economy is about to pick up and that a steady improvement in new vehicle sales will continue." He credited Cadillac, Pontiac and Saturn for the increase in car sales and said light-truck sales were stronger in all G.M. divisions that sell trucks.
For the month, domestic and imported vehicle sales totaled 974,828, a 2.4 percent increase from February 1991, during the Persian Gulf war. Car sales totaled 652,928, up four-tenths of 1 percent, while truck sales rose 7 percent, to 321,900.
Market shares remained nearly steady for the month. The Big Three gained slightly, to 70.4 percent of the total vehicle market, from 70.1 percent last year. The Japanese producers, including American transplants, kept the same share, 24.2 percent this year and last. While all other imports lost three-tenths of 1 percent, closing the month at 5.4 percent of the market.
 
Sense a Better Mood
 Although consumer confidence as measured by surveys has been depressed, some car dealers reported a better mood among consumers, which the dealers hoped would be a prelude to increased sales.
Stacey Gillman, assistant general manager of the Houston-based Gillman Companies, said: "February was much better than January. We feel as if spring is here." Several low-rate financing programs have helped sales of several models among her companies' nine franchises. "Pontiac has 2.9 percent financing for 24 months," she said, "and the Honda Accord lease program is $199 a month."
"We've seen a big pickup in floor traffic, but buyers are hesitating," said William Pallo, sales manager of Brown, Daub Chrysler-Plymouth, Jeep-Eagle in Easton, Pa. "They're here to buy a car, but they want it on their own terms. You really have to sharpen your pencil to make a sale."
The Ford Motor Company took some heart from the sales numbers because the proportion of low-profit fleet sales, compared with sales to individuals, was much lower in the period than last year, said Robert L. Rewey, vice president for sales operations.
"Individual consumer demand is stronger than total deliveries suggest," he said. The light-truck market, he said, "is providing a clearer picture of the revival in demand." Ford's light-truck sales rose 9 percent for the month, led by a 29 percent increase in the sales of the Ford Explorer utility vehicle.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "U.S. Vehicle Sales" shows seasonally adjusted annual selling rates for cars assembled in U.S., Canada and Mexico from Sept. '90-Feb. '92. (pg. D13)
 
Charts: "U.S. Vehicle Sales" shows car and light-truck unit sales in February, and the percent change from February, 1991. (pg. D13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (83%); TM (NYSE) (83%); 7203 (TSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (83%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MINIVANS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); DESERT STORM (60%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (55%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



160 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE EASILY KILLS BUSH BUDGET PLAN

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4

 BODY:
After an impassioned debate punctuated by election-year politics, the House tonight overwhelmingly rejected President Bush's $1.52 trillion budget request by a vote of 370 to 42.
Mr. Bush's budget measure never had a chance for passage, but most Republican leaders treated it as a campaign blueprint to navigate the country over a course of gradual cuts in the defense budget and a fine-tuning of social programs designed to expand economic growth. 
 The Democrats portrayed the President's budget as an assortment of accounting gimmicks and an inadequate response to the country's housing, transportation and health needs.
The House customarily rejects White House budgets when the two institutions are controlled by different political parties, as they have been since the election of President Ronald Reagan in 1980. The defeat of Mr. Bush's budget sets the stage for probable passage of a Democratic alternative that differs little with the President's budget in important benefit programs like Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Taken together, such benefit programs account for more than half of all Federal spending.
 
Republican Defections
 Republicans as well as Democrats expressed unease that whatever budget resolution passed the House this week would not even begin to contain the swelling national debt. One hundred nineteen Republicans joined 250 Democrats and 1 Independent to defeat the budget; Republicans cast all 42 votes in favor of it. Even Republicans who voted for the budget said they were less than enthusiastic about the deficits included in it.
At the core of tonight's debate were diverging views on how far to reduce military spending over the next five years. Mr. Bush proposed to cut $7 billion from the military budget next year and $50 billion through 1997, as against cuts of $15 billion and $91 billion over those same periods in the Democratic proposal.
One version of the Democratic budget would redeploy most military spending cuts on domestic programs -- including job training for workers laid off in the weapons industry, housing, AIDS and cancer research and education programs like Head Start.
"The President's budget establishes a defense spending number as if the Soviet Union still existed," said Representative Leon E. Panetta, the California Democrat who is chairman of the Budget Committee. "The world has changed. People are saying its time to focus on our needs."
Echoing Administration officials, Republican lawmakers warned that the world was still a dangerous place where American soldiers might have to be deployed in unstable regions like the Persian Gulf. Some also warned of the proliferation of nuclear weapons to countries like North Korea; others expressed concern that unemployment would escalate if the Pentagon budget was cut too steeply.
"The United States has always engaged in rapid and deep reductions in national defense after major conflicts only to be challenged by tyrants who perceive America as too weak in will and readiness," said Representative Jim McCrery, Republican of Louisiana.
 
Impact of Budget Agreement
 Any transfer of money from the military budget to domestic programs would require revision in 1990 budget agreement, which forbids the relocation of financing from military to other needs. The President has said he opposes a revision on the grounds that it could lead to spiraling new spending on wasteful programs. He has also sworn to oppose any additional cuts in Pentagon spending beyond his own proposals.
Mr. Bush's budget complied with the 1990 budget agreement, even as it projected a $352 billion deficit for 1993. It sought increases in spending on Social Security, Head Start, Pell grants for financially strapped college students, and various veterans programs. Among the programs that were trimmed in it were energy conservation, National Park Service projects, Indian housing, vocational training and research into Alzheimer's disease.
The President's budget also proposed cutbacks and other changes in benefit programs, including a dramatic increase in monthly premiums for affluent people enrolled in Medicare, to save $68 billion over six years.
 
Criticism and Praise
 Speaking in favor of the President's budget, Representative Robert H. Michel of Illinois, the minority leader, said, "It is rooted in realities. It maintains the budget disciplines we imposed on ourselves."
Representative Jim Slattery, Democrat of Kansas, attacked Mr. Bush's budget for "running up more new debt in the next two years than this country accumulated between George Washington and the last year of the Carter Administration."
The Democratic alternative, which was passed by the House Budget Committee last week, offers two separate budget plans, one based on the 1990 budget agreement and a second based on the assumption that the "firewalls" between military and domestic spending would be torn down.
Under the first plan, all military savings would be used to reduce the budget deficit. Under the second, 70 percent of the savings would go to social spending and the rest to reduce the deficit. The Democratic budget resolution will face a scheduled vote by the full House on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (51%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (55%); MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (55%); MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (51%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (98%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); ARMED FORCES (69%); MEDICAID (69%); MEDICARE (67%); ARMS TRADE (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); CANCER (50%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); LEON E PANETTA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



161 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Key West Journal;
'Margaritaville' vs. Military Housing

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KEY WEST, Fla.

 BODY:
Peary Court is 29 acres of open green space adjoining a neighborhood of Victorian gingerbread houses that has been designated a National Historic District. But the triangular parcel also abuts Key West Naval Air Station, and the Navy, which owns the land, wants to build 160 units of military housing on it.
And on this small, densely populated island with virtually no undeveloped areas left, that has proven to be a prescription for conflict. 
 For three years, residents of this normally relaxed tourist and fishing center of 25,000 people have been arguing about Peary Court on radio call-in programs and in town meetings and a Federal courtroom in which a suit against the Navy is being heard. A ruling is expected next week.
"It's a very touchy subject around here," said Felix Cooper, the city manager, "and it has consumed a great deal of the energy of the city."
Taking the Navy's side are members of the groups that have long dominated Key West's civic and economic life: "conches," as descendants of the original settlers are known, Cuban-Americans and military retirees. They welcome the project as an expansion of the town's long relationship with the military and as a much-needed shot in the arm for those local businesses that do not rely on tourism.
"The economy is in trouble," said Andy Saunders, owner of a grocery store across the street from Peary Court, "and a steady payroll twice a month from 160 families right across the way can only help everybody in the city."
Supporters also note that the Navy has said it needs the housing despite the end of the cold war and a shrinking military. They argue that closing bases elsewhere means that some military units will be moving to Key West, and they point out that the military stationed here have been extensively used in the war against drugs, which shows no signs of abating.
Leading the opposition is Last Stand, a local environmental group, which contends that the Navy has alternate sites on Key West and nearby islands and which asserts that the Navy has violated Federal regulations in the rush to build.
"The Navy wants more land so that it has a bigger playground for all the brass who come down here," said Jim Farrell, the vice president of Last Stand .
Longtime residents tend to dismiss the opponents of the project as "outsiders," a term used to describe people who have arrived in the last 20 years and who have given Key West a reputation as urbane and unconventional. These include homosexuals, young professionals fleeing the urban rat race and erstwhile hippies drawn by "Margaritaville" and other songs by Jimmy Buffett, a local resident.
The dispute has an esthetic component as well.
Mr. Farrell complained that the Navy plans to build "traditional 50's-style V.H.A." suburban tract housing that would clash with the architecture of the historic district, much of which consists of wooden houses that have been restored into pricey "guesthouse compounds," shops and restaurants catering to tourists.
Backers of the project say any construction would be a vast improvement over what Peary Court became under 15 years of city management on a $1-a-year lease. Until the Navy took back control of the property last year, they say, the tract was an after-dark haven for drug users, drunkards and cruising homosexuals.
Officials at the naval air station did not respond to calls requesting comment about the dispute. But at a recent Town Council meeting, Capt. Michael P. Currie, the base commander, said, "If we don't build on Peary Court, they will essentially say Key West does not want the Navy."
According to Federal figures, the Navy and Coast Guard units here employed 3,431 military personnel and 1,217 civilians in 1991 and had a total annual payroll of $125 million and additional expenditures of $94 million.
For those trying to avoid what they fear could be a Navy withdrawal, what is now at stake is not just housing, but the character of Key West.
"We have become a community which is anti-family," said Arturo Espinola, a leader in the Cuban community whose ancestors, in 1834, founded the first cigar factory here. Military housing would mean "more children," he said, "and we need more children in this town."
"Navy families have always integrated into Key West," he added, "so it behooves us to have facilities for them."

GRAPHIC: Maps showing the location of Peary Court.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

CITY: KEY WEST, FL, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KEY WEST (FLA) UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: NAVIES MILITARY BASES (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); NAVIES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); CITIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); LITIGATION (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%); DRUG POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



162 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: Drug Industry Going Back to Nature

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Skin of frog, venom of spider and saliva of leech. Ingredients for the witches' brew from "Macbeth"? No, they are potential sources of drugs.
The pharmaceutical industry is going back to nature, scouring the oceans for algae, the soil for fungi and the jungles for plants, insects and beasts that might provide chemicals to fight cancer, AIDS and other diseases. Such chemical prospecting could also provide an economic incentive for preserving rain forests and endangered species, conservationists and drug company officials say. 
 The resurgence of interest in such natural sources is surprising because biotechnology was supposed to have ushered in the age of "rational drug design," in which drugs would be formulated using scientific principles, doing away with the need to rely on Mother Nature.
 Instead, biotechnology has produced techniques that allow drug companies to screen tens of thousands of substances a year in an attempt to find just one that will fight disease.
"The testing procedures have become like factories," said Dr. John H. Fried, vice chairman of the Syntex Corporation and president of its research division. "You can run a lot of products through."
Syntex signed an agreement last year under which science academies in China will supply it with up to 10,000 plant extracts a year for testing. SmithKline Beecham has hired Biotics Ltd., a young British company, to supply it with hundreds of plant extracts each year from the jungles of Ghana and Costa Rica.
The National Cancer Institute, which dropped its natural-drug screening program in the early 1980's, resurrected it a few years ago. It collects nearly 4,000 plant samples each year from around the world, plus thousands more samples of marine organisms and microorganisms.
 Biotechnology companies are also working with natural-drug sources. Natural Product Sciences Inc. of Salt Lake City and Cambridge Neuroscience Inc. of Cambridge, Mass., hope that spider venom, which can paralyze the spider's prey, will yield drugs for human brain and nervous-system disorders.
Xenova Ltd., a new British company, has assembled a library of more than 20,000 fungi and microorganisms that it screens and allows other drug companies to use.
Some promising drugs isolated from natural sources are already in development. Cor Therapeutics, a South San Francisco biotechnology company, is testing a drug to prevent unwanted blood clots. It found the drug by screening the venom of 70 species of snakes. Other companies, including Biogen and Ciba-Geigy, are developing anti-clotting compounds modeled on agents used by leeches, which are known for their blood-sucking ability.
 
Frog Skin Against Infection
 Magainin Pharmaceuticals of Plymouth Meeting, Pa., is developing anti-infection agents modeled after naturally occurring molecules found in the skin of frogs.
Drugs can come from seemingly contradictory places. A tree in China known as the tree of joy yields the same anti-cancer drug, now being tested by SmithKline Beecham, as another tree in India called the stinking tree.
Not all natural drugs come from exotic jungles. Merck & Company derived the avermectins, which are used to treat river blindness and other infectious diseases, from a microorganism found in the soil of a Japanese golf course.
Drug experts say rational drug design is still the wave of the future, but it has so far proved difficult to design drugs completely from scratch. Millions of years of evolution, meanwhile, have led to the development of many chemical structures that mankind has not even thought of.
 
Aid From Biotechnology
 Biotechnological techniques, like growing cells in test tubes, have actually spurred the return to natural- product testing by allowing for the design of highly efficient and highly automated tests.
The National Cancer Institute, for instance, previously tested potential anti-cancer drugs in mice that had leukemia, a cumbersome process. Now it grows 60 different types of cancer cells in cultures and can test drug candidates on all 60 types, performing 20,000 such tests a year. Affymax Research Institute, a company in Palo Alto, Calif., that is owned by Affymax N.V. of the Netherlands, developed a technique that could make it possible to test thousands of compounds in a day.
Genetic engineering has also allowed scientists to clone receptors, which are parts of a cell to which proteins bind, setting off some metabolic process. Drugs often work by binding to a receptor or by blocking something else from binding. So scientists can test thousands of substances to see which bind to receptors associated with a particular disease.
"We can set up very specific screens we couldn't do before," said Randall Johnson, director of biomolecular discovery at SmithKline Beecham.
 
Use of Robots in Testing
 Ligand Pharmaceuticals, a biotechnology company in San Diego, has synthesized or licensed receptors for several types of hormones. Using robots and technicians, Ligand has already gone through half of the 110,000 compounds in the library of Pfizer Inc., a drug company with which it has an agreement, searching for chemicals that bind to the receptors. The company also tests natural marine substances obtained through a scientist at the Scripps Institute of Oceanography nearby.
Screening for drugs this way is like looking for a needle in a haystack, only worse, because finding a usable substance is only the first step in producing a drug.
"You are not expecting to find something you can put into a bottle and sell to a pharmacist," said William A. Scott, senior vice president for exploratory and drug discovery research at Bristol-Myers Squibb.
 
Problems With Plant Extract
 A plant extract, for instance, might contain thousands of compounds, which then have to be laboriously separated to see which is responsible for making the extract noticeable in the screening test. In addition, the natural substance often has to be modified to make it safer or more effective, or to make it capable of being manufactured.
The search for natural drugs does not automatically mean riches for those involved. The collection end, in particular, involves lots of work for low pay.
Take the case of Spider Pharm in Black Canyon City, Ariz., a mom-and-pop business run by Charles and Anita Kristensen that collects spiders and sells their venom to drug companies. When interviewed in January, the Kristensens had 40,000 to 50,000 spiders on hand, representing more than 20 species, most of them stashed in little plastic cups in their garage.
 
Milking a Spider
 Milking is laborious work. The spider is anesthetized with gas and a tube is stuck beneath its fangs. Then the spider is given an electric shock, which prompts the release of venom. All the while, the spider's mouth is suctioned clean to prevent vomit from contaminating the venom.
Each milking might produce as little as a millionth of a liter. Not surprisingly then, venom is expensive. The venom of black widow spiders can run $15,000 a milliliter.
Despite the high prices, however, Spider Pharm has run up huge debts, Mr. Kristensen said. Indeed, as he spoke, he was preparing to pack his arachnids and move to Pennsylvania to take a job helping the American Cyanamid Company develop insecticides from natural sources. He and Mrs. Kristensen plan to maintain the spider farm, however.
 
A Possible Route to Profit
 A better route to profit might be to make natural products in large quantities. Foraging for jungle plants or milking spiders might be fine for obtaining small samples for testing, but it will usually be impractical as a way of producing large volumes needed when a drug reaches the market.
Calbiomarine Technologies Inc., a tiny company in Carlsbad, Calif., hopes to use aquaculture to grow marine organisms and harvest drugs from them. An initial candidate is an anti-cancer compound in clinical trials that comes from tiny marine invertebrates.
Aquaculture, says the company's president, Janice Thompson, is bound to be more economical than the current method of collection -- sending divers to scrape the animals off rocks or the undersides of ships.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are looking to nature for fresh sources of therapeutic drugs. Natural Product Sciences of Salt Lake City hopes that spider venom, shown being milked from a giant crab spider, will yield drugs that can be used to fight brain and nervous-system disorders in humans. (Natural Product Sciences)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NPSP (NASDAQ) (84%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (58%); NVS (NYSE) (58%); NOVN (SWX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); GHANA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); UTAH, USA (68%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: NPS PHARMACEUTICALS INC (84%); SYNTEX CORP (69%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (58%); NOVARTIS AG (58%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (54%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (54%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); GHANA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); UTAH, USA (68%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); BIOTECHNOLOGY; NATURE; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; ANIMALS; FLOWERS AND PLANTS PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (93%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); CANCER (89%); CANCER DRUGS (78%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (78%); ANTICOAGULANTS (78%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (77%); MARINE BIOLOGY (77%); CHEMICALS (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); NEUROSCIENCE (76%); COMPUTER AIDED DRUG DESIGN (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); RAIN FORESTS (71%); BLOOD DISORDERS (56%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW JOSEPH C PAPA (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



163 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Memo;
Clinton Finds a Theme: He Is Not Paul Tsongas

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAMDEN, S.C., March 4

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton thinks he has hit his stride.
He has the message he wants: an us-versus-them economic pitch. He has the electoral credibility he wants, thanks to an unexpectedly solid win in the Georgia primary and two respectable second-place finishes in Colorado and Maryland. 
 And he has the opponent he wants -- Paul E. Tsongas, whose hard-edged pitch about belt-tightening provides him with the contrast Mr. Clinton feels he needs to sharpen the campaign's focus.
In many ways, the events that have narrowed the Democratic contest into a two-way race may have provided the Arkansas Governor with the best scenario he has had since Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York decided not to run for President.
 
Pointing Out 'Distinctions'
 A Cuomo-Clinton contest, his advisers had hoped, would have provided instant contrast in a muddled Democratic field. Now Mr. Tsongas can fill that role.
Mr. Clinton's chief weapon: the economy. By stepping up his discussion on restoring jobs and investment, he is trying to take Mr. Tsongas's best issue away from him.
The strategy took final shape this week as Mr. Clinton unveiled a new campaign speech that relies heavily on outlining what he calls the "distinctions" between his proposals and Mr. Tsongas's.
In an advertisement that is now on television in Florida after first appearing in Georgia and Maryland, Mr. Clinton contrasts Mr. Tsongas's statements with his own in a combination intended to leave the viewer with the impression that Mr. Tsongas is not a friend of the average worker.
And in his standard speech, Mr. Clinton hammers away at Mr. Tsongas. "I believe you can have growth and fairness in this country," Mr. Clinton said. "Now we're having a fight in the Democratic Party with someone who says growth now, fairness later."
Some of the message seems to be penetrating with voters, especially in Florida, where a diverse and unhappy electorate votes next week.
"Tsongas, he's for the upper class," said Bernie Skall, a retired accountant who heard Mr. Clinton yesterday at the Century Village retirement community in Deerfield Beach, Fla. "I think Mr. Clinton's down to earth. He's for the little guy."
The strategy also borrows from other campaigns. Although Mr. Clinton has long tried to cast himself as a Washington outsider, he was embraced early by most of the Washington Democratic establishment.
Now the outsider rhetoric has returned. And this time it owes more than a little of its edge to former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California, who has found some success with his populist outsider's message.
"I'm not the favorite candidate of the Beltway," Mr. Clinton said as he explained away his loss in the Maryland primary on Tuesday, "because I support real change."
 
Cue From Buchanan
 And with an eye toward Patrick J. Buchanan, Mr. Clinton has also renewed his criticism of President Bush. Surveys of voters leaving polling stations show that both Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Clinton appeal to less-educated, blue-collar voters.
But by condemning what he describes as Mr. Buchanan's race baiting, Mr. Clinton hopes to attract some of the disenchanted Republicans who want to send a message and may be willing to cross party lines to do so.
For weeks Clinton aides have been looking for a way to portray the distinctions between the two leading Democratic candidates. When the Tsongas campaign first caught on in New Hampshire, Mr. Clinton was spending much of his time defending himself against charges that he had ducked the Vietnam war draft and had been unfaithful to his wife.
By the time last weekend's round of debates arrived, the Clinton campaign had assembled its research on Mr. Tsongas and was searching for a way to distill it into speeches and new television advertising.
The new approach got its first tryout this week.
"It's crystallized in Governor Clinton's mind during the last five days," said George Stephanopoulos, the deputy campaign manager. "He felt it during the debates."
"With Tsongas emerging maybe as the front-runner, the debate moves more toward who's old and who's new on economic issues," said Paul Begala, another Clinton strategist.
Mr. Clinton christened himself the "accountability candidate" on Tuesday, a signal that the bitterness between the two Democrats is about to become even more harsh.
Targets will include Mr. Tsongas's proposal for a nickel-a-gallon increase in the gasoline tax and his call for a measured reduction in the capital gains tax rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (60%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); TSONGAS, PAUL E BILL CLINTON (92%); JERRY BROWN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



164 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Violence in Nairobi Draws a Warning by U.S.

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, March 4

 BODY:
Violence continued in the Kenyan capital today when the police fired tear gas canisters and clubbed demonstrators protesting the forceful eviction of women on a hunger strike from a city park.
The unrest came as Washington warned that Kenya's new era of multiparty politics was being threatened by official violence and intimidation. 
 In a statement in Washington on Tuesday, the State Department said it was "deeply concerned" by the violence and by the forcible removal of the hunger strikers, who were calling for the release of political prisoners. Many of the women, who had been fasting for four days, are the mothers of prisoners.
The State Department also said that opposition parties faced growing obstacles to organizing and holding rallies.
On Tuesday heavily armed police officers swept through the tents in the downtown park where the women had been camped and beat four women unconscious. Among those admitted to the hospital was Wangari Maathai, a prominent Kenyan environmental campaigner and a member of one of the new opposition political parties.
That violence led to new demonstrations today, particularly around the central bus station, and many storekeepers closed their shops early. Many streets were sealed off by the police, and tourists fled to their hotels.
President Daniel arap Moi, who reluctantly permitted a multiparty system, said today that the women had been misled by the opposition and "threatened the security of citizens and the nation."
The three days of police action followed a pattern of violence against members of the Forum for the Restoration of Democracy, the main opposition party.
The leader of the Forum, former Vice President Odinga Oginga, was stoned by supporters of President Moi at a rural rally last Saturday, and armed police barred members of the Forum from entering some rural party headquarters over the weekend.
In December Mr. Moi, under pressure from foreign donors and domestic critics, agreed to allow political parties to challenge his ruling Kenya African National Union.
Washington is watching closely how this East African nation deals with its first taste of multiparty politics in two decades. The United States Ambassador, Smith Hempstone, has been outspoken about the need for Mr. Moi to open up the political process. Last October the United States was instrumental in persuading the World Bank and others to delay infusions of aid pending political and economic reform.
President Moi, in power since 1978, resisted multiparty politics, saying that because of Kenya's many tribes it would lead to violence. A senior official in the United States Embassy here suggested that Mr. Moi was allowing the police violence to prove his prediction true.
"This business of the President saying publicly and privately that it was forced on him and it would lead to chaos and bloodshed can easily become a self-fulfilling prophecy," the official said.
After the Constitution was amended in December to allow opposition, two new parties formed: the Forum, led by Mr. Odinga, a Vice President in the 1960's, and the Democratic Party, headed by Mwai Kibaki, who was a Vice President under Mr. Moi.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KENYA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (90%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KENYA KENYA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; BRUTALITY AND HARASSMENT CHARGES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; HUNGER STRIKES PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (92%); POLITICS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); RIOTS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (79%); VIOLENT CRIME (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (52%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; MOI, DANIEL ARAP (PRES); OGINGA, ODINGA DANIEL ARAP MOI (68%); DANIEL TOROTICH ARAP MOI (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



165 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Rating Cut On I.B.M.'s Debt Issues

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
I.B.M. was stripped of its prized triple-A bond rating yesterday by Moody's Investors Service Inc., which downgraded its rating of the ability of the company to repay its debt by two notches, to Aa-2.
However, financial analysts said the move was a blow more to I.B.M.'s pride than to its balance sheet. 
 "I call this piling on," said Daniel Mandresh, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company. He said the International Business Machines Corporation, the world's largest computer maker, was moving forward on its business plan for reversing the trend in recent years of faltering profits.
 
Sign of Decline?
 Still, the move was seen by some on Wall Street as another sign of the decline of the company, which has long been among the most highly regarded American corporations.
After Moody's announcement yesterday, I.B.M.'s stock fell 87.5 cents, to $87.375, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The Moody's downgrade put the quality rating on I.B.M.'s debt below triple-A for the first time since its first public borrowing in 1979. Ratings affect a company's borrowing costs because companies with poor ratings must offer higher interest rates to attract investors. Debt rated Aa-2 by Moody's, however, is still considered high quality.
 
Increasing Competition
 In lowering its rating, Moody's pointed out that I.B.M., based in Armonk, N.Y., was facing increasing competition and that the company was entering an era in which it would be less profitable.
Faced with declining mainframe computer sales, waning influence in personal computing and an international recession, I.B.M. last year reported its first loss, $2.83 billion, largely because of one-time charges to cover changes in accounting for retirement benefits.
The company's flat performance in recent years has touched off a far-reaching search within the company for a business strategy that would regain for I.B.M. its vast influence over the shape of the entire computing industry.
So far, the computer maker has cut back extensively, giving more than 80,000 employees special incentives to leave the company, and has distributed authority farther down in the organization by giving its lines of business more autonomy.
The computer maker has been grappling with fundamental changes in the industry it once dominated. While computers once were the exclusive province of the computer-center executives to whom I.B.M. sold equipment, the introduction of the personal computer has changed the business radically. The increasing capabilities of smaller computers has significantly reduced I.B.M.'s influence over corporate buying patterns.
The AAA rating from Moody's that I.B.M. formerly held is the highest rating that Moody's gives. But the lowered ranking of Aa-2 still indicates that I.B.M. is held in high regard by the rating agency.
 
Minimal Impact
 An I.B.M. spokesman called the downgrading "disappointing" but said that it would have only a minimal impact on the company's borrowing requirements. He pointed out that the Aa-2 rating was also held by many large and successful corporations, including A.T.& T., Proctor & Gamble and Pitney Bowes.
I.B.M. also noted that it was the most profitable company among the 500 largest United States corporations in seven of the 10 years between 1980 and 1990 and that 1990 earnings were among the best in its history.
The company said in a statement that I.B.M. Mutual Funds were unaffected by Moody's action and that the I.B.M. Money Market Account, a debt obligation of the I.B.M. Credit Corporation, retained its top short-term credit rating.
 
Lower Returns and Margins
 In issuing its new rating, Moody's said, "I.B.M.'s competitive environment and its own necessary remedial activities to adapt to it will continue to induce volatility in its operating performance, and overall returns and margins will stabilize at lower levels than those I.B.M. has historically reported."
The Standard & Poor's Corporation, a second leading Wall Street credit-rating agency, said yesterday in a telephone interview that the company had issued a negative outlook on I.B.M.'s credit rating in August. However, I.B.M. retained its top rating at S.& P., at least for the time being.
"We have said we needed to see a return to profitability," said Melanie McCrosson, a vice president at Standard & Poor's. "We continue to monitor their performance."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%); IBMC (BRU) (92%); IBM (NYSE) (92%); IBM (LSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC MOODY'S CORP (92%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; CORPORATE BONDS FINANCIAL RATINGS (93%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); TRENDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); RANKINGS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RECESSION (70%); INTEREST RATES (51%); 

PERSON: MARKHOFF, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



166 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Dow Falls 21.69; Ends At 3,268.56

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Stocks fell in heavy trading yesterday, punctuated by a sharp selloff in blue-chip issues late in the afternoon following a downgrading of I.B.M.'s credit ratings by Moody's Investors Service Inc. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 21.69 points, to 3,268.56, after a record closing on Tuesday.
Trading was flat most of the day, as investors held back because of concern over rising interest rates and their potential effect on corporate earnings and a recovering economy. 
 Paul J. Kronlokken, a technical analyst with Piper, Jaffray & Hopwood Inc. in Minneapolis, said stocks had basically run alongside bonds for most of the day until the downgrade of International Business Machines.
The company's stock fell 87.5 cents, to $87.375, on 1.8 million shares.
"Once the market caught wind of the news, it was all the excuse the program traders needed to enter and knock the market down further with a barrage of sell programs," he said.
 
Heavy Program Trading
 Birinyi Associates, a Wall Street firm that tracks program trading, clocked a fair amount of such activity. The firm reported five sell programs and one buy; their combined effect lowered the Dow 40.70 points.
Mr. Kronlokken noted that a weaker-than-expected report on January factory orders and a decline in the stock price of Merck, from negative rumors about its anti-cholesterol drug, were already weighing on the Dow. Merck has denied the rumors.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange rose to 208.9 million shares, from 204.7 million on Tuesday, with losing issues outpacing gaining ones by 1,065 to 613. The Big Board composite index slipped 1.77 points, to 226.66.
 
Other Gauges Lower
 The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks, another blue-chip barometer, fell 3.52 points, to 409.33, while the American Stock Exchange composite index was off 2.10 points, to 413.39. Trading on the Nasdaq was also heavy, with the composite down 3.96 points, to 630.29, while the Russell 2,000 index of smaller company stocks fell 0.82 point, to 211.27.
Analysts said the stock market did not react to the Presidential primaries on Tuesday, and instead held a positive view of the economy despite the factory orders report.
Merck, a weighted Dow component, fell 2 5/8 to 151 1/4, after rumors that it was having trouble with the anti-cholesterol drug Mevacor. Trading was halted on an order imbalance at 9:56 A.M. and did not resume until 12:24 P.M. Merck said no new findings had been made that would question the safety or efficacy of Mevacor or its other cholesterol-lowering drug, Zocor.
The Commerce Department said yesterday that orders received by American factories rose slightly in January because of more demand for industrial machinery, computers and other durable goods. While orders rose four-tenths of a percent, the January gain fell short of economists' expectations.
Tektronix, an electronics company that expects to post a third-quarter loss after a $16 million restructuring charge, fell 2 3/8 to 16 7/8. Laura Conigliaro, an analyst with Prudential Securities Inc., dropped her rating to "sell" from "hold" and cut her earnings estimates for this year and next.
New competition in the market for injectible anti-allergy drugs caused Stuart Weisbrod, a Merrill Lynch analyst, to lower his long-term rating on Immulogic Pharmaceutical. He moved it to "neutral," from "buy." The stock fell 1 1/2, to 17 1/4.
On Tuesday, Genentech and Hoffman-LaRoche said they would work together on several projects, including injectable allergy drugs.
 
Another Rating Is Cut
 Chips and Technologies, a maker of integrated circuits, fell 7/8, to 12. Edward White, an analyst with Lehman Brothers Inc., lowered his stock rating to "hold," from "strong buy," because of the recent price gains and a patent-infringement lawsuit brought by Intel, which he says adds an element of risk.
The directors of Puget Sound Bancorp, a regional banking company that is acquiring the Olympic Savings Bank, has itself received proposals by several companies it did not identify.
Puget Sound said it was reviewing the offer, and it rose 4 1/2, to 35.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (83%); MRK (NYSE) (83%); IBMC (BRU) (58%); IBM (NYSE) (58%); IBM (LSE) (58%); PJC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (77%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (91%); MERCK & CO INC (83%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (58%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); NYSE MKT LLC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (77%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); DURABLE GOODS (74%); CHOLESTEROL (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); INTEREST RATES (56%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT PAUL J KRONLOKKEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



167 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Transit Union's Members Are Divided on Contract

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
As more than 32,000 New York City transit workers began voting this week on a new three-year contract, a deep split has developed within their union. Many members have called for the rejection of the pact endorsed by their leaders, saying that it would increase their health care costs and contains inadequate salary increases.
Leaders of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union have endorsed the tentative agreement reached in January with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, saying that it was the best they could do in a severe recession. The ballots were mailed to members on Friday, and must be postmarked by March 16, said Sonny Hall, the local's president. 
 Many transit workers interviewed yesterday said they would oppose the pact, which calls for a raise of 4.5 percent this year and an additional 2 percent next year. There would also be a $1,000 payment to each transit worker to cover inflation since May, when the previous contract expired.
"I think it stinks," said Cornell Smith, a conductor. "I just sent my ballot back and I said no."
Mr. Smith, along with other transit workers interviewed at the Stillwell Avenue station in Coney Island, the terminus of four subway lines, said he opposed the contract because it calls for workers to pay more of the cost of medical care. Workers said they would have to pay $10 more for each doctor's visit. Mr. Smith said he also was unhappy because the $1,000 bonus in the contract would be a one-time payment, and would not be built into his salary or pension benefits.
"I'm sure it's going to be voted down," Mr. Smith said.
Other critics were slower to predict victory. Tim Schermerhorn, a train operator who failed in a race against Mr. Hall for local president last year and who is a founder of New Directions, a dissident group in the union, said, "A no vote is not in the bag."
Opponents rallied in front of the headquarters of both the M.T.A. and the union in Manhattan on Tuesday evening, tying up midtown traffic as they marched from the authority's offices on Madison Avenue and 45th Street to the union's office on West End Avenue and 64th Street.
Transit workers contended that at least 2,000 members attended the demonstration, while Mr. Hall estimated the crowd at 600. After the rally ended about 7:30 P.M. in front of the union's offices, hundreds of transit workers surged into nearby subway stations on the IRT West Side lines and the A, B, C and D lines at Columbus Circle.
 
Emergency Brakes Pulled
 The emergency brakes were pulled on six trains immediately after the rally, tying up the West Side lines. One transit worker was arrested on charges of pulling the emergency brakes on two of the trains, said Termaine Garden, a Transit Authority spokesman.
Service on the A, B, C and D lines was halted at 8:05 P.M., because the emergency brakes were pulled on trains on all four tracks at Columbus Circle, Mr. Garden said. Service was restored 36 minutes later.
After No. 1 trains at the 66th Street and 72d Street stations were halted by people pulling the emergency cords, beginning at 7:46 P.M., the transit police ordered trains to bypass both stops, Mr. Garden said. Normal service was restored at 8:52 P.M.
Mr. Hall said yesterday that he still thought the pact was the best available, given the enormous financial strains on the city and state and the Transit Authority.
"I am somewhat taken by surprise that some transit workers feel that a catastrophe has happened to them," said Mr. Hall, noting that his union had been spared the layoffs that had hit city and state workers.
"Many members clearly feel that there is more money available, and that they deserve it," Mr. Hall said. "I echo that they deserve it, but I just don't think it's there. We squeezed every dollar we could out of an empty bank."
But many union members are skeptical. "They think we can do better," Mr. Schermerhorn said.
Anthony Smith, a car cleaner in Coney Island, said that the Transit Authority had been good to him. "But I also want a fair contract," he added.
Noel Acevedo, another car cleaner, said he understood that the city was in a recession. "But I have four kids at home," he said. "Can you imagine how much this will cost me?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Transit workers are voting this week on a new contract that many feel is inadequate. Anthony Smith, left, a car cleaner at the Stillwell Avenue station in Coney Island, said that the Transit Authority had been good to him, "but I also want a fair contract." With him yesterday was Noel Acevedo. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION (TWU); METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (57%); TRANSIT AUTHORITY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION (TWU); METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) TRANSIT AUTHORITY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; CONTRACTS; LABOR URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); TRAINS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); ARRESTS (60%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN CORNELL SMITH (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



168 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Are Up, Late Mortgages Down

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4

 BODY:
Orders to the nation's factories rose for the third time in four months in January, and delinquent mortgages declined, two reports said today, signaling a slowly emerging recovery.
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady said the gain in factory orders would probably be followed by an "increasing number of statistics" that would convince Americans that the economy was improving. 
 "That is the way the American people will make their minds up on whether there is a strong recovery going on," Mr. Brady said after appearing before a House Appropriations subcommittee.
Orders to factories for goods as diverse as textiles and turbines inched up four-tenths of 1 percent, to $235 billion, in January, the Commerce Department said.
It was the third increase in four months but came after a 3.7 percent plunge in December, which was the steepest in more than a year. Factory orders peaked at $254 billion in October 1990.
"It's a meager increase, but we have to start somewhere," Evelina Tainer of Prime Economic Consulting, a Chicago forecasting service, said of the January gain. "It goes along with other things we're seeing suggesting a very slow recovery."
The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, and a survey of purchasing managers have said that new orders also continued to grow in February.
Factory orders are a barometer of the plans of the manufacturing industry. Continued growth could mean higher production and an increase in jobs in a sector representing about 20 percent of the economy.
Orders for durable goods, products like planes and automobiles, which are intended to last more than three years, rose 2.2 percent in January, even more than the 1.5 percent estimate reported last week. They totaled $120.3 billion, up from $117.8 billion a month earlier. A 5 percent decline in durable goods orders pulled the overall total for factory orders down in December.
 
Nondurables Slip Again
 But new orders for nondurable goods, including food and textiles, fell 1.4 percent in January, to $114.7 billion, down from $116.3 billion a month earlier. The December figure itself represented a decline of 2.3 percent from the previous month. The January drop was the first consecutive decrease since five straight monthly declines ending March 1991.
Industrial machinery and equipment orders had the largest gain, up 6.9 percent after a 3.2 percent decline in December.
Transportation orders were up 1.1 percent after a huge 13.7 percent plunge in December. Excluding the transportation category, orders inched up three-tenths of 1 percent. Orders for electronic and other electrical equipment dropped 5.1 percent; primary metals were down 1 percent. The volatile military orders category fell 19.7 percent, after soaring 89.4 percent a month earlier. Excluding military goods, orders were up 1.3 percent.
Orders for nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft, a barometer of industry plans to expand, rose 5.1 percent and more than erased a 1 percent drop in December.
Shipments of factory orders, a gauge of current production, inched up a tenth of 1 percent, the ninth increase in the last 10 months.
Inventories fell three-tenths of 1 percent, the 4th consecutive decline and the 10th in the last 11 months.
The Mortgage Bankers Association of America said the percentage of Americans who were 30 days or more behind on their mortgage payments fell to a seasonally adjusted 4.78 percent at the end of December from 5.07 percent three months earlier.
Separately, the United States Chamber of Commerce said business optimism nearly tripled from December to February. It said 47.4 percent of 7,924 executives it had questioned said the economy would improve in the next six months, compared with 17.6 percent in the previous survey.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Factory Orders" shows manufacturers total new orders from Aug. '90-Jan. '92. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSN OF AMERICA MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION (60%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSN OF AMERICA US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING; MORTGAGES ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); FACTORY ORDERS (95%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); TEXTILES (70%); DEFENSE ORDERS (70%); APPROPRIATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



169 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Incumbent;
Schwarzkopf Offers Praise, Not Endorsement

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 4

 BODY:
Stung by Patrick J. Buchanan's showing in the Georgia primary but hoping to stop the bleeding from his right flank with his contrition on taxes, President Bush swept back into the South today with Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf at his side.
But the hero of the Persian Gulf war came to praise Mr. Bush, not to endorse him, exactly. 
 Introducing the President at a fund-raising luncheon at a Tampa hotel, one of two such events today at which Mr. Bush raised $1.3 million, General Schwarzkopf portrayed the President as a courageous commander who withstood political pressure and did "the right thing" against Iraq. But afterward, the general pointedly refused to say whether he was giving Mr. Bush an endorsement for re-election.
"I'm apolitical," he protested as reporters pursued him through the hotel lobby.
Asked why he came to the fund-raising event, General Schwarzkopf replied: "Hey, I'm not a politician. I'm a ham. I love to give speeches."
 
Acknowledging a Problem
 Mr. Bush and his aides put the best face on Tuesday's primary results, in which Mr. Buchanan won a strong enough showing to continue to frustrate the President's effort to shake off the conservative challenge, but the Bush camp was clearly troubled.
Mr. Bush acknowledged that those who have voted for Mr. Buchanan -- consistently about one-third of the Republican primary voters -- were not merely expressing concern about the economy, but were voting against him.
"I think that's a good way to analyze it," Mr. Bush said before leaving Washington on a rush through six of the Southern states that hold primaries next Tuesday and South Carolina, which has a primary on Saturday. "But that will turn around. The economy will turn around."
Mr. Bush's campaign strategy is based on an assumption that the economy will rebound this summer.
But the campaign's agitation over Mr. Buchanan was evident in the way senior advisers spent the day huddling over Mr. Bush's schedule, extending to six days what had been planned as a three-day campaign trip with a day of fishing in Alabama on Saturday.
The President resumed campaigning after a day that focused on his expressions of regret for the 1990 tax hike, which broke the "read my lips" pledge of his 1988 campaign. Aides said Mr. Bush's virtual apology had been considered necessary to appease conservatives and others who have been questioning his credibility on taxes.
Today, the campaign was determined to move on. "Bush did what he had to do, but we don't exactly want to dwell on it," one aide said.
To help that effort, aides brought out General Schwarzkopf, who is retired from the Army, to introduce Mr. Bush at the $1,000-a-plate lunch in Tampa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (88%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (88%); MIAMI, FL, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; TAMPA (FLA) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (73%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (88%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (88%); MIAMI, FL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ENDORSEMENTS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); DESERT STORM (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX INCREASES (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (64%); LOBBYING (58%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SCHWARZKOPF, NORMAN (GEN); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



170 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Bentsen Says Buchanan Holds Bush Hostage

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4

 BODY:
Senator Lloyd Bentsen, author of the Democrats' tax bill, said today that there was little chance of progress on taxes, health care or other important issues "as long as the President's decisions are being held hostage by Pat Buchanan."
The Texas Democrat said Mr. Bush was rejecting tax increases on fewer than 1 percent of Americans to pay for tax credits of $300 per child because he was scared of losing the votes of conservative Republicans. 
 Patrick J. Buchanan, the commentator who is challenging the President, has received most of his votes in recent primaries from conservative Republicans.
 
The Buchanan Factor
 "Right now all of his efforts, the entire machinery of the executive branch of Government, is focused on one thing, and that's enticing that faction of the voters back and away from Pat Buchanan," Mr. Bentsen, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, told the National Press Club.
Mr. Bentsen said the point of the Democrats' bill, which would cut some taxes by $57 billion over five years and raise others by the same amount, was more fairness than economic growth. "We're trying to redress some of the excesses of the Reagan-Bush economic years," he said.
He said partisanship was evident yesterday when all nine Republicans on the Committee voted against his bill, even though it included some version or element of each of Mr. Bush's key economic proposals. All 11 Democrats voted in favor of the bill.
But his focus was an unusually sharp attack on Mr. Bush. He said of the President's 1988 promise of "no new taxes" that it was a "promise that he knew he couldn't keep." He said it was "amazing" to hear Mr. Bush "cave in to Buchanan by turning his back on the budget agreement, the one he fought for and signed." Mr. Bush said this week that he regretted approving the tax increase.
He said Mr. Bush "knows that without that agreement interest rates would be much higher and that recession would be far deeper."
Mr. Bentsen, who was his party's candidate for Vice President in 1988, insisted in answer to a question that he was pleased with his role as a committee chairman and not as a Presidential candidate this year.
But when asked if he would accept the nomination of a deadlocked Democratic National Convention, a condition he has often said he believes will not come to pass, he replied, "I'd have to ask my wife about that."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (56%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (56%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; TAX CREDITS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); APPROVALS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



171 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Mixed in Light Trading

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed in light trading yesterday, as market participants began an uneasy wait for the release of the February employment statistics tomorrow.
Dealers said most of the activity was concentrated among short- and long-term securities, with little action in intermediate issues. With the Federal Reserve Board unlikely to ease its monetary policy soon to stimulate the economy further, traders said there was selling of shorter-term bills and notes. 
 But a favorable outlook for inflation seems to be making investors feel more comfortable with owning long-term bonds, and traders said some clients were making purchases.
 
Weaker Auto Sales
 In addition, market participants took some comfort from a report showing that auto sales during the last 10 days of February were weaker than expected, at 5.9 million units.
The report was the first this week that did not reinforce the notion that the economy had hit bottom and was turning up. Because of the mixed nature of the reports, traders and analysts said the February employment figures would take on added importance in determining whether the economy was actually beginning to recover.
Despite recent positive readings, "I remain convinced the economy, whatever transitory periods of growth we might enjoy, is not going to improve on a sustainable basis until we get long-term interest rates down from these levels," David H. Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities International.
 
Long Bonds Edge Up
 In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered at a price of 1012/32 late yesterday, up 1/8 point, to yield 7.90 percent, compared with 7.91 percent late Tuesday.
Among Treasury note issues, the 6 3/8 percent seven-year notes were offered at 966/32 , down 3/32 , to yield 7.08 percent. And the 5 3/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 9926/32 , down 2/32 , to yield 5.47 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates were little changed. Three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 4.02 percent late in the day, unchanged from late Tuesday. Six-month bill rates were also unchanged, at a late offered rate of 4.11 percent. And one-year bill rates rose by three basis points, or three-hundredths of a percentage point, to a late rate of 4.27 percent.
 
New York City's Offering
 In other developments, the City of New York offered more than $900 million worth of taxable and tax-exempt securities. Final prices and yields on the securities were not available late yesterday, as city officials met with underwriters to work out some last-minute details.
But $622 million worth of tax-exempt bonds was offered on a preliminary basis, with yields on serial bonds from 6 percent on securities maturing in 1994, 6.90 percent on bonds maturing in 1997, 7.40 percent in 2001 and 7.75 percent in 2012.
Also on a preliminary basis, term bonds were priced with a maximum yield of 7.80 percent in 2019.
In addition, $184 million worth of taxable issues carried a maximum yield of 10.05 percent on bonds maturing in 2016.
Corporate bond analysts said taxable yields of that sort are seen on BB-rated securities, ratings well below the Baa-1 and A-minus ratings assigned to this offering by Moody's Investors Service and the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
 
$100 Million in 'Mini Bonds'
 A widely publicized offering of $100 million worth of zero-coupon bonds aimed at small investors met with a good reception, according to market participants.
Although final yields were not available, the bonds were priced on a preliminary basis at prices to yield 6.75 percent in 1997 to a maximum yield of 7.90 percent in 2012.
The First Boston Corporation acted as the lead manager for the underwriting of the tax-exempt and taxable portions of the New York City debt sale, while Prudential Securities Inc. was the lead underwriter on the $100 million offering of tax-exempt zero-coupon "mini bonds."
In addition to the New York City offering, the State of Georgia sold a total of $565 million worth of securities at competitive bid.
A bid from a group led by Goldman, Sachs & Company won the entire Georgia issue, and the securities were reoffered to investors with yields from 2.75 percent in 1993 to a maximum yield of 6.40 percent on bonds maturing in 2012. The issue is rated AAA by Moody's and AA+ by Standard & Poor's.
 
Lower Rating for I.B.M.
 Meanwhile, corporate bond traders said there was little market reaction to Moody's decision to lower ratings on outstanding debt securities of the International Business Machines Corporation to AA-2 from AAA.
"Moody's has had I.B.M. on credit watch with negative implications for some time," a corporate bond trader said. "Still, everybody is looking at this as the end of an era."
Corporate traders said that prices of most outstanding investment-grade issues were little changed on the day.
And participants in the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds said the prices of most widely quoted issues were unchanged.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" shows average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificated, in percent from Nov. '91-March '92. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBM (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); TAX LAW (62%); CITIES (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



172 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Florio Defends His Policies but Admits Mistakes

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4

 BODY:
Insisting that he "had the right medicine" when he took office two years ago but conceding that he had "a lousy bedside manner," Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey came here today to apologize and to proselytize.
In an unusual midterm report, the Governor told a luncheon of the Center for National Policy, a nonprofit research group, that he had made mistakes but touted his policies as a guide to take the country out of the recession and into the next century. 
 The Governor, whose term has been marked by one of the most bitter voter uprisings in state history, criticized Democratic social policies for creating a self-perpetuating cycle of poverty and accused the Bush and Reagan Administrations of causing endless despair.
"If the Great Society gone awry chipped away at the American soul," he said, "the New Federalism run amok literally smashed it with a sledgehammer."
Mr. Florio said "fighting over the crumbs instead of expanding our economic pie" had paralyzed the government, and he proposed rejuvenating the country by investing in its infrastructure and in the poor with policies that return "to the bedrock values of America, the values that guided our people as they built a society offering more opportunity to more people than any society, anywhere in the world."
The 45-minute speech was an amalgamation of chiding, cajoling and moralizing. In laying out his effort to reform welfare, college-aid programs and health care, he was seeking to define the domestic agenda at a moment when the electorate appears unable to join behind a single candidate or message.
In that way, his speech was reminiscent of the high-profile lecture given by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York at Harvard University six days before the Feb. 18 New Hampshire primary.
Governor Florio cited his "favorite President," Franklin D. Roosevelt, in a thinly veiled defense of his controversial plan for revising welfare, which has been criticized by liberal groups as discriminating against poor children.
If approved by the Federal Government, the plan would deny additional payments to mothers on welfare who have more children, but it would seek to encourage family stability by allowing welfare recipients to marry without losing payments and to earn 50 percent of their welfare benefits without suffering cuts in their payments.
Mr. Florio said he received assurances today from the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Louis Sullivan, that he would help clear Federal obstacles to the welfare plan.
Mr. Florio insisted that time had shown his tax increase and other controversial decisions had been right, forced upon the state by previously invisible "internal" financial hemorrhaging, but he acknowledged that he had failed to take the time to explain them and that he had been out of touch.
"We had the right medicine, but a lousy bedside manner," the Governor said. "I failed to see how important it is for leaders to listen to people and be accountable to them. And we paid a price. I faced some tax protests. I face a media firestorm. So what I've come to see is we have to search for a new common ground, even a new common language."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR NATIONAL POLICY HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); CENTER FOR NATIONAL POLICY (84%); CENTER FOR NATIONAL POLICY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR NATIONAL POLICY CENTER FOR NATIONAL POLICY (84%); CENTER FOR NATIONAL POLICY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (88%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CHILD POVERTY (74%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); TAX LAW (67%); APPROVALS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); 

PERSON: GRUSON, LINDSEY; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



173 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Mendes Hershman Is Dead at 80; Leader in New York Legal Circles

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
Mendes Hershman, who helped improve the merit selection of judges in New York as chairman of both the city and state judicial screening panels, died on Monday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
He died of heart failure, his family said. 
 Mr. Hershman, a longtime insurance company executive, was a leader in professional legal circles and served on many government and bar panels.
He was best known as the head of the Mayor's Committee on the Judiciary from 1972 to 1977 under Mayors John V. Lindsay and Abraham D. Beame, and as head of the Commission on Judicial Nomination for the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals, for the past decade.
"He was a real pioneer in improving judicial selection," said Hank Henry, executive director of the Fund for Modern Courts, a nonprofit organization.
 
Served on Many Panels
 Sol Wachtler, chief judge of the Court of Appeals, said Mr. Hershman "did a great deal toward opening up the process and reaching out to potential judges."
For 31 years Mr. Hershman worked at the New York Life Insurance Company in Manhattan, rising to senior vice president and general counsel. After reaching the mandatory retirement age there in 1977, he joined the law firm of Rosenman & Colin as a senior partner and was named a counsel in 1990.
He was chairman of the legal advisory committee to the board of the New York Stock Exchange, the 1984 Committee for the Recodification of State Insurance Law, the 1982 Commission on Uniform State Laws and the executive committee of the New York City Bar Association. He was co-chairman of a joint city and state bar association task force on liability insurance and was on the New York Law Journal's board of editors.
 
Published Law Articles
 Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller appointed him to a panel to promote investment in middle-class housing and Gov. Hugh L. Carey appointed him to a panel that investigated the financial collapse of the State Urban Development Corporation and recommended an overhaul of state debt practices.
Mr. Hershman published many journal articles on insurance, corporate, securities and real-estate law.
He was a former president of New York University's Washington Square College Alumni Association and was active in the United Jewish Appeal, the Greater New York Fund, the Citizens Union, the Landmarks Conservancy and United Neighborhood Houses.
Mr. Hershman, who was born in Allentown, Pa., grew up there and in New York City. He graduated from New York University in 1929 and Harvard Law School in 1932.
Surviving are his wife, the former Frances Stackell; two daughters, Jenny Wolf and Danielle Blaire-Hershman, both of Manhattan; a sister, Toba Hauptman of Lexington, Mass., and four grandsons.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mendes Hershman (1969)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (90%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: KATTEN MUCHIN ROSENMAN LLP (90%); NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); FUND FOR MODERN COURTS (56%); FUND FOR MODERN COURTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FUND FOR MODERN COURTS (56%); FUND FOR MODERN COURTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAWYERS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); APPEALS (88%); APPEALS COURTS (88%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); CITIES (78%); JUDGES (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); MAYORS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); INSURANCE LAW (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); LIFE INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (73%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ALUMNI (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); RETIREMENT AGE (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHMAN, MENDES; LAMBERT, BRUCE MENDES HERSHMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



174 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Competitiveness Panel Urges Action

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4

 BODY:
Saying that America's leadership role in the world is bound to decline unless its competitiveness improves, a panel appointed by President Bush and Congress criticized both the White House and lawmakers today for doing far too little to help the nation vie in the world economy.
"America's competitiveness problem reflects slow erosion rather than sudden crisis," said the report from the panel, which includes corporate chairmen, union presidents, government officials and economists. "Democratic societies such as ours -- and perhaps especially ours -- are not adept at responding to 'termites in the woodwork.' Our national leadership has yet to acknowledge the scope or seriousness of the challenge." 
 The commission's call for an aggressive strategy, including improving education and job-training and selecting crucial industries for Government help, will not translate into legislation tomorrow. But its report already appeared to be playing an important part in framing the debate over a significant issue in this year's election campaigns.
 
A Political Struggle
 Still, politicians have found it difficult to forge a broad-based approach to the problem. "My hope is that we are going to marshal a consensus" as a result of the panel's conclusions, said Senator Donald W. Riegle Jr., Democrat of Michigan.
In a step toward a loose industrial policy, the report called for a new Government agency to assess the future of key industries, monitor their foreign competitors and develop policies to help critical industries stay competitive. "One problem we have is we don't have anyone in charge of manufacturing in our Government," said Senator Jeff Bingaman, a New Mexico Democrat who was chief sponsor of the 1988 legislation that set up the commission.
Here are highlights of the findings:
*Government and industry should work together in a new Federal agency, along the line of the Pentagon's highly regarded Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, to develop civilian technologies..
*America's soaring health spending, which puts American industry at a disadvantage, should be reined in, perhaps through a cap on health-care spending.
*The tax system should be revamped so that it encourages savings and investment, instead of consumption and debt.
Members of the commission include C. Fred Bergsten, the panel's chairman, who is an economist who was Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs in the Carter Administration; New York State Comptroller Edward V. Regan; Rand V. Araskog, chairman of the ITT Corporation; John J. Murphy, chairman of Dresser Industries; Albert Shanker, president of the American Federation of Teachers, and Lynn R. Williams, president of the United Steelworkers of America. Robert A. Mosbacher left the panel when he resigned as Commerce Secretary in January.
Mr. Bergsten presented the report Tuesday to Clayton K. Yeutter, the Administration's counselor for domestic policy, but the Administration has had no formal response.
The commission painted a dreary picture of stagnant wages, low productivity growth and burgeoning debt burdens. It noted that after-inflation wages for American workers were down from 20 years ago, that Japanese industry spends more on new investment than does American industry and that American companies are no longer leading in patents granted by the United States.
"Excessive confidence in our competitiveness is another barrier to effective national response that must be overcome," the panel said.
The commission also called for measures it said would make American industry do more long-term thinking. To make students study harder, the commission suggested that colleges grant admission in degree programs only to students who have demonstrated they are ready for college-level work.
 
Specifics to Come Later
 Mr. Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, a Washington research center, said the commission would issue a more specific set of proposals after the November elections.
Despite many economists' criticism of the notion of the Government's picking winners among industries, the commission called for policies to help specific sectors, like electronics. It noted that Washington has long had industrial policies for agriculture and aerospace.
"There need be no embarrassment over conscious endorsement of such a policy, particularly as it is pursued by virtually all other countries around the world," the commission said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ITT (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (61%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ITT CORP (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VOCATIONAL TRAINING; ECONOMIC PLANNING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); TEACHER UNIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JEFF BINGAMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



175 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Tax-Exempt Yields Off; Taxables Slip a Bit

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH M. FOWLER

 BODY:
The yields on tax-exempt funds continued moving down in the week ended Monday, and short-term taxable funds dropped very slightly in the week ended Tuesday, according to IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report.
"As yields of tax-exempts decline for another week, we have seen an outflow of funds," said Walter Frank, Donoghue's economist. He added that for the taxable funds "the bottoming-out process continued as yields declined only marginally for the second week." 
 The seven-day compounded average yield for the tax-exempt funds was 2.57 percent, down 9 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, from the previous week, while the seven-day simple yield dropped to 2.54 percent, down 8 basis points. The 30-day compounded yield was 2.71 percent, off 7 basis points, and the 30-day simple yield was also down 7 basis points, to 2.67 percent.
The top Connecticut fund again was the Fidelity Spartan Connecticut Municipal Money Market Portfolio, which reported a seven-day compounded yield of 2.94 percent, down 19 basis points from the previous week.
In New Jersey, the top fund again was the Fidelity Spartan N.J. Municipal Money Market Portfolio, with a yield that dropped to 3.05 percent, down 19 basis points.
In New York, the top fund again was the Salomon Brothers N.Y. Municipal Money Market fund. It had a seven-day compounded yield of 3.48 percent, off a basis point.
Assets of the tax-exempt funds, dropped $1.6 billion, to $98 billion.
Donoghue's said the average number of days to maturity of securities held in the tax-free portfolios grew to 52 days from 49.
Of the funds monitored by Donoghue's with assets larger than $100 million, the Strong Municipal Money Market Fund of Milwaukee, continued to lead with a seven-day compounded yield of 3.50 percent, down 9 basis points from the previous week.
 
Taxable Funds
 The assets of the taxable funds dropped to $494.8 billion, from $507.6 billion the previous week. Mr. Frank noted that most of the drop was attributable to institutions, which moved money among money funds, commercial paper and other open-market investments to increase yields. They accounted for $10.1 billion of the total $12.8 billion outflow.
Mr. Frank said the average days to maturity of holdings in the taxable funds held at 57 days.
The average seven-day compounded taxable yield dropped 3 points, to 3.83 percent, from the previous week, while the seven-day simple yield also declined 3 basis points, to 3.75 percent. The 30-day compounded yield declined 4 basis points, to 3.87 percent, and the 30-day simple yield dropped 4 basis points, to 3.80 percent.
Two funds tied in reporting the highest seven-day compounded yield for the week. They were the Evergreen Money Market Trust and Riverside Capital Money Market Fund, both showing a 4.53 percent yield.
By comparison, the average bank money market account, a prime competitor of money funds, was at 3.70 percent, off 2 basis points, according to The Bank Rate Monitor's national index.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Regional Bank Rates"
Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on March 4, 1992 by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

	Money	6-Mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	 	 	 	New York	3.65	3.65	Los Angeles	3.73	3.92	Chicago	3.66	4.00	San Francisco	3.66	3.90	Philadelphia	3.79	3.90	Detroit	3.73	3.86	Boston	3.80	3.95	Houston	3.62	3.89	Dallas	3.58	3.81	Washington	3.80	4.03	Bank Rate Monitor Index*	3.70	3.89	
*Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408
 
Graphs: "Maturities" shows average days to maturity of securities held in money market mutual fund portfolios from March '91-March '92. (Source: Donoghue's Money Fund Report); "Consumer Money Rates" shows Donoghue's Money Fund seven-day compounded average yield and the Bank Rate Monitor national index of money-market accounts from Nov. '91-March. '92. (Sources: Bank Rate Monitor; IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (51%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (51%); DETROIT, MI, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (51%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (51%); DETROIT, MI, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (78%); BONDS (78%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M WALTER FRANK (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



176 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: K Mart Net Up 19.2%; Venture Gains 7.6%

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The K Mart Corporation said yesterday that its fourth-quarter earnings soared 19.2 percent, and Venture Stores Inc. reported a profit gain of 7.6 percent as both discount retailers benefited from cautious consumer spending.
K Mart, the nation's second-largest retailer after a fellow discounter, Wal-Mart Stores Inc., also got a big lift from its specialty store divisions. 
 Discounters have reported the strongest sales gains in the retail industry as Americans gravitated toward stores with lower prices during the recession. Following are the details of the two retailers' results:
 
K Mart
 K Mart's earnings shot up to $479 million, or $2.11 a share, in the quarter ended Jan. 29, from $402 million, or $2.01 a share, a year earlier.
Revenue rose 8.4 percent, to $10.56 billion from $9.74 billion.
K Mart, based in Troy, Mich., has outperformed many other retailers during the consumer spending slump. The company's earnings included the fruits of a program to renovate and improve the company's flagship discount stores.
K Mart also had strong sales at its specialty stores, which include Pay Less Drug Stores, Waldenbooks, the Sports Authority, Builders Square and PACE Membership Warehouses.
"The specialty stores are doing better than most have expected," said Wayne Hood, a retail industry analyst for Prudential Securities Inc. in New York.
For the full year, K Mart earned $859 million, or $4.03 a share, up 13.6 percent from $756 million, or $3.78 a share, in the 1990 fiscal year.
Per-share earnings rose only 6.6 percent for the year because of K Mart's issuance in August of stock to raise money for a store renovation program.
Full-year revenue rose 7.8 percent, to $34.97 billion from $32.45 billion.
Sales for the 2,375 K Mart discount stores totaled $25.55 billion, 2.6 percent above $24.89 billion in 1990. For established stores, those open at least a year, sales were 2.1 percent higher.
Established store sales are the most commonly used measure of a retailer's strength.
The company's specialty stores had $9.03 billion in full-year sales, up 25.8 percent from $7.18 billion. Established-store sales rose 9 percent.
K Mart did not break out quarterly results for its divisions.
While K Mart fared better than many other retailers, it did feel the pinch of the consumer spending slump in some areas. "The weak economic environment adversely affected sales of electronics and other big-ticket categories," Joseph Antonini, K Mart chairman, said in a statement.
 
Venture Stores
 Venture said it earned $28.4 million, or $1.70 a share, in the quarter ended Feb. 1, up from $26.4 million, or $1.57 a share, in the corresponding period a year earlier.
Sales rose 8.8 percent, to $521.9 million from $479.5 million. Sales at established Venture stores were up 3.5 percent.
For the full year, Venture reported earnings of $41.5 million, or $2.48 a share, up 20.3 percent from $34.5 million, or $2.06 a share, in the 1990 fiscal year.
Full-year sales rose 7 percent, to $1.52 billion from $1.42 billion. Established-store sales gained 3.4 percent.
Venture operates 84 discount stores in the South and Midwest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (91%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (67%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: K MART CORP; VENTURE STORES INC KMART CORP (93%); VENTURE STORES INC (92%); WAL-MART STORES INC (91%); PAY LESS DRUG STORES NORTHWEST INC (68%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES GROUP INC (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: K MART CORP; VENTURE STORES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ELECTRONICS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



177 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Advances Broadly; Gold Prices Narrowly Mixed

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar staged an impressive advance on world foreign exchange markets yesterday, piercing key technical levels against major currencies in hectic trading.
Gold prices were narrowly mixed, up in the United States and down abroad. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $350.60 a troy ounce, up 20 cents from Tuesday. The Republic National Bank said gold gained 5 cents an ounce in late bidding, to $350.40. 
 Analysts said the dollar's break through key technical levels prompted a buying spree. "It went up like a rocket," said Stephen Flanagan, a vice president at Mitsubishi Bank Ltd.
The currency was supported by continued evidence that the United States economy had entered a recovery phase. The Government reported yesterday that orders to the nation's factories rose four-tenths of 1 percent in January, led by a big jump in durable goods. The increase was the third in four months.
Randolph Donney, research director at the Pegasus Econometric Group in Hoboken, N.J., said the report was "a little less than expected, mediocre." But he added that "the tone of the recent economic data has been very, very constructive."
He was referring to positive reports on new home sales, a bullish survey of purchasing managers and a jump in the Government's key forecasting gauge, all released earlier this week.
Traders said the dollar also drew support from widespread rumors that the Labor Department's jobless report for February, to be released tomorrow, will be extremely positive. Many are expecting a sharp upward revision in January payrolls, as well as a favorable gain in non-farm payrolls during February.
Separately, traders noted that there appeared to be an extremely large order to buy dollars from a European corporate dealer. The trade was not confirmed, but the rumor helped support the dollar nonetheless.
In Tokyo, the dollar rose to a closing of 131.50 Japanese yen, from 129.94 yen at Tuesday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 130.95 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 131.75 yen, up from 131.03 yen on Tuesday.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.7240, from $1.7395 late Tuesday. In New York, it cost $1.7240 to buy one pound, less expensive than Tuesday's $1.7377.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday's rates included: 1.6690 German marks, up from 1.6585; 1.5215 Swiss francs, up from 1.5090; 5.6715 French francs, up from 5.6340; 1,252.00 Italian lire, up from 1,243.00, and 1.1903 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1918.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (57%); HSB (PAR) (57%); HBC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (71%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (71%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (76%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; GOLD CURRENCIES (93%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); DURABLE GOODS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



178 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 5; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: Critic's Notebook;
The Reaganite Ethos, With Roy Cohn As a Dark Metaphor

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, March 1

 BODY:
At the end of Tony Kushner's "Angels in America," a new American play that has become a runaway sensation here, the theater rocks with deafening apocalyptic thunderclaps, a proscenium-size Old Glory explodes in a burst of lightning, and a beautiful angel descends from heaven to retrieve a young man who is dying of AIDS. "Very Stephen Spielberg," says the awed young man. "The Great Work begins," announces the Angel. "The Messenger has arrived."
It says a lot about Mr. Kushner's huge talent that this outrageous finale, far from seeming as over-the-top as it sounds, is an appropriate, cathartic and, yes, Spielbergian conclusion to the three-and-a-half hours of provocative, witty and deeply upsetting drama that have come before. Mr. Kushner, who is 35 years old and lives in Brooklyn, may well be creating a great work in "Angels in America," a two-part epic of which this multi-layered evening is only the first installment. Without question he is a messenger who demands to be heard. 
 Among many other things, this half of "Angels in America," subtitled "Part I: Millennium Approaches," is an idiosyncratically revisionist view of recent American political history in which Roy Cohn, the Joseph McCarthy henchman who lived on to become the most politically incorrect of closeted AIDS victims, emerges as the totemic figure. As a piece of writing, the play is a searching and radical rethinking of the whole esthetic of American political drama in which far-flung hallucinations, explicit sexual encounters and camp humor are given as much weight as erudite ideological argument.
The author labels his play "A Gay Fantasia on National Themes," and, pretentious as that may sound, he delivers on those ambitions, creating a modern answer to John Dos Passos' "U.S.A." from the uncompromising yet undoctrinaire perspective of a gay American man of the early 1990's. "Angels in America" is the most extravagant and moving demonstration imaginable that even as the AIDS body count continues to rise, this tragedy has pushed some creative minds, many of them in the theater, to new and daring heights of imaginative expression.
Mr. Kushner's script ended up at the Royal National Theater here -- in the same intimate house, the Cottesloe, that was the site of the first production of David Mamet's ground-breaking "Glengarry Glen Ross" -- by a circuitous route. The play was initially performed in a 1990 workshop at the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles, where Part II (subtitled "Perestroika") will have its premiere next season, but its first full-fledged production was at the Eureka Theater in San Francisco last year. It attracted the attention of the National's artistic director, Richard Eyre, who had the inspired idea of teaming Mr. Kushner with Declan Donnellan, a highly innovative director celebrated for the visual and sexual flamboyance he and his itinerant Cheek by Jowl company have brought to the classics.
Working with an ensemble cast that can be faulted only for the inevitable slippage of some of its American accents, Mr. Donnellan and his designer, Nick Ormerod, magically juggle overlapping scenes that whip among such diverse locales as a men's room in a Federal Court of Appeals, a middle-class home in Salt Lake City, the Ramble in Central Park and a Valium addict's mystical vision of an ozone-depleted Antarctica. But the many fantastic flights of "Angels in America" are always tied to the real world of the mid-1980's by Mr. Kushner's principal characters, who include two young couples: a pair of gay lovers, and a politically ambitious, rectitudinously Mormon lawyer and his wife. These couples are gradually brought into intersection by both their fantasy lives (sexual and otherwise) and their inadvertent proximity to the covert corridors of power ruled by Cohn in his latter-day incarnation as a Reagan-era Mr. Fixit.
Mr. Kushner, who likened the Reagan ethos to the Third Reich in a vapid previous agitprop drama ("A Bright Room Called Day"), certainly has some pointed things to say about the greed and selfishness of the Reagan decade. But "Angels in America" is more interested in looking ahead, in taking the spiritual temperature of the nation as it approaches the millennium, than in rehashing the political disputes, even those about AIDS, of the recent past. "AIDS shows us the limits of tolerance," says Louis Ironson (Marcus D'Amico), a Jewish clerical worker who has discovered that his lover of nearly five years, Prior Walter (Sean Chapman), is scarred by the lesions of Kaposi's sarcoma. Among the limits tested are those of the Jewish and Mormon religions and, less abstractly, those of Louis himself, a sweet, smart man who nonetheless abandons his longtime companion with a callousness a more limited playwright might ascribe exclusively to heterosexuals.
In the ecumenically depressed America of this play, everyone is running away from whoever he or she is, whether through sex, drugs or betrayal, to dark destinations unknown. Yet for all his pessimism, Mr. Kushner sees many sides of every question. Nowhere is this more apparent than in his presentation of Cohn, who, in the demonic performance of Henry Goodman, is a dynamic American monster of Citizen Kane stature. True to fact, this Cohn, even at his most bullying and hypocritical, is neither stupid nor bereft of a sense of humor. In one typically arresting speech, he vehemently argues that he is not a homosexual but a heterosexual who has sex with men, for how could a man with his political influence be included among a constituency with "zero clout"? In Cohn's many fascinating self-contradictions, Mr. Kushner finds an ingenious vehicle for examining the twisted connections between power, sexuality, bigotry and corruption in an America that has lost its moral bearings.
Such is the high-voltage theatricality achieved by both play and production that the English audience at "Angels in America" is totally gripped even as it must consult a program glossary to identify phenomena like Ethel Rosenberg (who materializes to call an ambulance for the stricken Cohn), Ed Meese, Shirley Booth and the Yiddish expression "Feh!" Even a graphic simulation of rough, anonymous sex -- brilliantly accomplished by two fully dressed actors miming their actions at opposite sides of the stage -- becomes a funny and affecting metaphor for Mr. Kushner's larger, painful canvas of a country splintering at every public and private level. There are scenes of "Angels in America" that run on too long and thoughts that are not clear (though they may become so in Part II). But the excitement never flags. Mr. Kushner has created an original theatrical world of his own, poetic and churning, that, once entered by an open-minded viewer of any political or sexual persuasion, simply cannot be escaped.
To the British, the freshness of the writing in "Angels in America" may seem even more pronounced than it does to an American theatergoer for the simple reason that London sees very little contemporary American drama. Even London critics seem unaware of important current plays like "The Substance of Fire," "Marvin's Room," "Sight Unseen" and "Lips Together, Teeth Apart," though "Lost in Yonkers" and "Six Degrees of Separation" are scheduled for production here this summer. When a less prominent American play is given full-dress treatment in the West End, as Tina Howe's "Painting Churches" belatedly was in a recent and short-lived production, it is usually held up (and unfairly) as a symbol of touchy-feely American parochialism.
David Mamet, despite his inactivity as a playwright, and Arthur Miller, whose work is in perpetual London revival, remain the touchstones of American playwriting. Mr. Miller recently returned the compliment by having the premiere of his new play, "The Ride Down Mount Morgan," in the West End, arguing in interviews that the London commercial theater is not subject to the critical and economic pressures of Broadway. His play then received mixed reviews and, in the exact Broadway manner, closed prematurely after a run of four months at the Wyndham's Theater, where the new tenant is "Straight and Narrow," billed as "an adult comedy."
New York, of course, also misses out on a lot of English drama. Plans to bring over "Racing Demon," David Hare's powerful examination of a crisis of faith within an inner-city Anglican parish, fell through, as did the announced American tour of Alan Bennett's "Single Spies." Unlike "Racing Demon," "Murmuring Judges," Mr. Hare's new play on the National's Olivier stage, is not an obvious candidate for export. Its investigation of a deadlocked criminal justice system is rooted in local legalities and often seems a display of journalistic research shoehorned into a television police melodrama rather than an impassioned act of the imagination. Though Mr. Hare's and Mr. Kushner's plays share some political sympathies and are performing side by side, the declamatory "Murmuring Judges" is so old-fashioned that one can hardly believe that it and "Angels in America" were written in the same millennium.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sean Chapman, top, and Marcus D'Amico in "Angels in America." (Alastair Muir/"Angels in America")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ANGELS IN AMERICA (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: EUREKA, CA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); EUREKA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (89%); AIDS & HIV (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); MILLENNIUM (72%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK; KUSHNER, TONY FRANK RICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



179 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Museum of Holography in SoHo Closes, Citing Finances

BYLINE: By SHEILA RULE

 BODY:
Crippled by budget cuts and mounting financial pressures, the Museum of Holography in Manhattan has been forced to close.
The museum, at 11 Mercer Street in SoHo, closed on Sunday after nearly 16 years of operation. Sydney Dinsmore, the museum's curator, said yesterday that its collection of some 800 holograms and related materials -- a comprehensive archive of slides, photographs and videotapes detailing the history of holography -- has been placed in storage. 
 Ms. Dinsmore said the museum had attracted as many as 100,000 visitors a year to its programs and exhibitions showing the application of holography, which creates three-dimensional images with laser beams. Holography is used in industry, scientific research, data storage, consumer goods and artistic expression. The process has important technical and commercial applications, most notably thus far in the form of the identifying holograms that appear as a security measure on many credit cards.
"We were not able to raise enough money for our general operations and programs," Ms. Dinsmore said. "We seemed not to be receiving the corporate, foundation or government support that we needed to keep going. In some cases, funding was cut out altogether or corporations were not as generous."
Ronald Erickson, the museum's business manager, said the museum was supported by income from admission fees, private individuals, corporations and public money. The recession, he said, has meant a "rugged time for not-for-profits."
He said that regulations for Federal, state and city financing had changed repeatedly and that the museum's annual operating budget of under $500,000 had not allowed it to have a full-time fund-raiser. He said it was largely because of individual supporters in the past few years that the museum remained open as long as it did.
Mr. Erickson said the museum was looking for a "corporate white knight" to provide rent-free space. With help from State Senator Manfred Ohrenstein, Democrat of Manhattan, the museum has several "leads" for at least temporary office and exhibition space, Mr. Erickson said, but he declined to provide details.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF HOLOGRAPHY (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF HOLOGRAPHY (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CORPORATE GIVING (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (54%); 

PERSON: RULE, SHEILA; DINSMORE, SYDNEY RONALD ERICKSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



180 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Democracy, Good and Messy

 BODY:
Although Tuesday's primary results winnowed the Democratic Presidential field to, at most, three plausible contenders, the Democrats are a long way from choosing a standard-bearer. That worries some of the party faithful. It shouldn't. The primary season is never tidy and often exasperating. But the longer it goes, the more we learn. Democracy is served.
What was learned on Tuesday? Senator Bob Kerrey is virtually finished, Senator Tom Harkin nearly so. Jerry Brown did well enough in his native West to stay the course, at least through Super Tuesday. Meanwhile, Pat Buchanan now seems capable of getting one-third of the vote wherever he goes, a measure of Republican discontent and President Bush's oddly disjointed campaign.
The most striking finding, judging by exit polls, was how sharply the vote for Bill Clinton and Paul Tsongas divided along class and racial lines. Blacks and poorer whites voted overwhelmingly for Mr. Clinton, while high-income, better-educated whites favored Mr. Tsongas.
Mr. Clinton outpolled Mr. Tsongas among blacks by 5 to 1 in Georgia and 3 to 1 in Maryland. Eight of ten Georgia voters without a high school education voted for Mr. Clinton; Mr. Tsongas did far better among college graduates in Georgia and won decisively among graduates in Maryland and Colorado.
In Maryland, Mr. Clinton beat Mr. Tsongas by a 2-to-1 ratio among voters with incomes of less than $15,000. The figures were exactly reversed among voters making more than $75,000.
There are two cautionary notes for Mr. Tsongas here. Mr. Clinton's strong showing among blacks augurs well for him on Super Tuesday, when seven contests will be held in Southern and border states where blacks are a significant factor. And looking toward November, educated upper-income voters -- the quiche-and-Volvo crowd who turned out for Mr. Tsongas -- tend to exercise disproportionate influence in Democratic primaries; they loom less large in general elections.
A more important cautionary note applies to all candidates: States are different, not only in size and composition but in the rules and trappings of their primaries and caucuses. There's no guarantee that Mr. Clinton will be able to duplicate his Georgia showing in, say, Florida. Even if he does, Mr. Tsongas should do well in the Northeast and, barring an across-the-board disaster, is likely to be alive and kicking when the campaign moves to the big Midwestern battlegrounds of Michigan and Illinois on March 17.
On the Republican side, a harried Mr. Bush simply can't shake Mr. Buchanan, many of whose supporters said they hoped mainly to send a "message" to the President. Has he gotten it? He says he grieves for those wounded by the recession, yet so far offers no organized countermeasures.
Meanwhile he missed a fine opportunity in Georgia to repeat the healing themes of his State of the Union address -- his warnings against "scapegoating," "finger-pointing" and "racism" -- and confront Mr. Buchanan's divisive appeals head on. Instead he apologized for his sound reversal on tax increases, which merely made him look insecure.
All this would have been impossible to predict even four months ago. A group of little-known Democrats seeking to reinvent their party; a rogue Republican; a President searching for his soul. All very messy. All unexpected. All interesting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; EDITORIALS; PRIMARIES PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); JERRY BROWN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



181 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Be Presidential. Push Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By William J. Bennett; William J. Bennett is former Secretary of Education and former director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Patrick Buchanan is a thorn in George Bush's side, and he will remain so. In this season of political discontent, the President faces an almost automatic protest vote of 30-something percent.
But he is not the issue. The Administration's political challenge, still, is to find definition and a clear raison d'etre for a second term. The good news is that what was self-inflicted can be self-corrected. 
 The President took a step in that direction when he admitted that the 1990 tax increase was a mistake. This was the first move toward re-establishing a broken bond of trust and making a credible case against Congress. The President now needs to follow up. Here are some suggestions:
1. Pursue a Pennsylvania Avenue strategy. George Bush should run an engaged, aggressive strategy up and down Washington's Main Street. The President should, among other things, index capital gains against inflation; exercise the line-item veto; campaign for term limits; veto the House Democratic tax bill; throw the full weight of his office behind radical education reform and school choice, and urge legal reforms and deregulation.
If the President is to seize the domestic initative, he needs to do so through the force of political conviction. Exerting executive authority through a series of Presidential acts will allow him to regain political ball control, marginalize the Buchanan candidacy, demonstrate that he is serious about governing (and not simply presiding) and win back the confidence of conservatives.
2. Reclaim foreign policy as an issue. International relations is the arena in which George Bush is the most sure-footed and confident.
We face challenges in the wider world, including the turmoil and instability after the implosion of the Soviet empire, continued unrest in the Persian Gulf region, the difficult negotiations between Israel and Arab nations and the ever-increasing threat of the proliferation of chemical, biological and nuclear weapons.
Why did President Bush's strategists decide to throw away his political trump card, foreign policy? Public opinion polls, no doubt. But this President showed how well he could shape public opinion when he led a reluctant nation to war in the gulf.
After prevailing in the twilight struggle against Communism, it is not inevitable that Americans will become indifferent to world events or succumb to the mindless appeal of "Come Home, America." In that vital national seminar, the President can teach and do so by articulating a coherent case for why an active international presence and responsible defense policy are still in our national -- and economic -- interest. To these ends, the Administration should:
* Push hard to conclude the new round of GATT agreements.
* Threaten to veto deeper cuts in the defense budget, which is already the smallest military budget as a share of the economy since the 1930's.
* Press hard for the development and deployment of a Strategic Defense Initiative.
* Recognize the critical American stake in Boris Yeltsin's success in Russia through a greater willingness to offer the essential political and economic support he needs.
* Fundamentally change our posture toward Israel, approving the $10 billion loan guarantees and supporting Israel's security, instead of insisting on territorial concessions.
Entering his final campaign, George Bush would do well to reflect on the words of the historian Teddy White. "The forces that run in American politics in our age are many and varied," he wrote. "Yet one man must make them all clear enough for the American people to vote and express their desire. He is the President . . . what the President of today decides becomes the issue of tomorrow. He calls the dance."
It is still President Bush's dance to call.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); GULF STATES (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (68%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VETO (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); BUDGETS (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); EDUCATION REFORM (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); DEREGULATION (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%); BUDGET CUTS (60%); 

PERSON: BENNETT, WILLIAM J; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); WHITE, THEODORE GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



182 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1945 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Primaries and Caucuses;
AS FIELD NARROWS, 2 DEMOCRATS SPAR ON ECONOMIC PLANS

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 4

 BODY:
Former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts and Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas began fresh bids to sell their rival prescriptions for the ailing economy today after victories in Tuesday's elections -- a landslide for Mr. Clinton in Georgia and three less sweeping successes for Mr. Tsongas.
But as they began campaigning for the 11 Democratic primaries and caucuses scheduled for March 10, Super Tuesday, their head-to-head fight was complicated by the emergence of Edmund G. Brown Jr., a surprise winner in Colorado, as an iconoclastic challenger with appeal for young voters, environmentalists and other Democrats dissatisfied with the status quo. 
 After seven fourth- or fifth-place finishes in a single day, Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska told several Senate colleagues that he had decided to abandon his candidacy. [Page A23.]
 
Clinton Woos Party Faithfuls
 Despite winning Minnesota's crowded caucuses and Idaho's tiny ones, Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa was still seeking a breakthrough in a primary state, but he decided to remain in the race.
Mr. Tsongas's message of economic self-discipline and government help for business resonated across the country Tuesday, particularly among highly educated Democrats. But acknowledging that most of the contests next Tuesday lie in Clinton territory, Tsongas aides said the campaign would focus on the South's larger states and tacitly cede others to the Arkansas Governor.
With Mr. Tsongas preaching his economic sermon in South Carolina, Mr. Clinton toured Florida to win over traditional Democratic voters, whom his aides see as the vehicle to multiple victories on Tuesday and perhaps decisive triumphs in Illinois and Michigan the following week. In a black neighborhood in Miami, Mr. Clinton reiterated his pledge of tax cuts for working people and said that "voters are clearly voting for change."
 
An Odd Demand
 "The rest of the campaign," he added, "is about who's offering what kind of change."
President Bush's Republican challenger, Patrick J. Buchanan, took 36 percent of the vote in Georgia, where he campaigned extensively, and 30 in Colorado and Maryland, where he did not. White House officials said that about a third of Republican primary voters seemed to be disaffected almost everywhere.
"I've got to start moving those numbers up, no question," Mr. Buchanan said on the NBC News program "Today," conceding that he needed to win a primary soon. Asked what he intended to give up during Lent, he answered, "I'm going to give up winning the silver medal in a two-man race."
Of the eight Republican tests on Super Tuesday, some of the conservative columnist's advisers think his best chance may be in Louisiana, where he campaigned today, even though David Duke, the former Ku Klux Klan leader who was a state representative there, is also on the ballot. Mr. Buchanan's racial themes might prove telling in the state, and the party chairman, William Nungesser, has endorsed him.
In a bizarre development, the challenger called on Mr. Bush to pull out of the race to unite the party. Marlin Fitzwater, the White House press secretary, said no and suggested Mr. Buchanan had "gone loony tunes."
Mr. Bush now has 170 of the 1,105 delegates needed for nomination, according to a tally by The New York Times. Mr. Buchanan has won 20, and five are listed as uncommitted.
 
Clinton Tops Delegate Count
 Among the Democrats, including superdelegates chosen so far but not including the results in Washington state, which have not been broken down in sufficient detail to permit delegate projections, The Times's tabulation gives Mr. Clinton 241, Mr. Tsongas 118, Mr. Harkin 86, Mr. Brown 36 and Mr. Kerrey 27, with 223 uncommitted. Mr. Clinton is the overwhelming favorite of the superdelegates, who are party leaders, former leaders and governors.
Mr. Tsongas, a Massachusetts Senator from 1979 through 1984 took the Maryland primary, an unofficial primary in Utah and the Washington caucuses, decisively demonstrating his capacity to succeed outside New England. He had won the New Hampshire primary and Maine caucuses in his home region.
Today he toured the Chatham Steel Corporation in Columbia, S.C., a state that holds its primary on Saturday. He stuck to his economic guns, handing his policy booklet to hard-hatted workers and explaining that business needed help if it was to recreate "a competitive manufacturing base" and provide tens of thousands of high-paying jobs.
Mr. Clinton scored the night's single biggest triumph, in Georgia. It was the Arkansas Governor's long-sought first victory of the campaign, and his success encouraged his strategists to predict as many as a half-dozen victories in the South on Tuesday, with the help of rural white and powerful black votes like the ones he put together here and in Maryland.
 
Echoes of Mondale-Hart Duel
 The two dissimilar contenders, one polished and passionate, the other introverted and understated, now seem set for a lengthy struggle, not unlike the one in which Walter F. Mondale ultimately beat Gary Hart in 1984.
Of course, the parallel is imperfect. The personalities are different, and Mr. Tsongas is more conservative than Mr. Hart on some economic issues, favoring capital gains tax breaks, relaxation of anti-trust laws and easing of certain requirements for corporate reports to the government.
But like Mr. Hart, Mr. Tsongas seeks to break out of the old Democratic orthodoxy, and like Mr. Mondale, Mr. Clinton has pitched his campaign to working-class ethnics, blacks and trade-union members.
"Within the Democratic party," said Mr. Hart in a telephone interview from Moscow today, "there is always an establishment party and an anti-establishment party. Bill managed in late 1991 to become the establishment candidate, and Paul, running an insurgency out of sheer necessity, has now become, rather by default, the non-establishment man."
With the help of the now-famous "Where's the beef?" jibe, suggesting that Mr. Hart lacked substance, Mr. Mondale finally overtook his younger rival in Illinois, then won decisively in New York. Mr. Clinton hopes to do something like that to Mr. Tsongas, allocating a considerable portion of his time and money to the two primaries on March 17 in Illinois and Michigan. Both of those rust belt states are full of old-line Democratic voters.
 
Portraits of Supporters
 In the days ahead, Mr. Clinton can be expected to portray Mr. Tsongas, in his television spots and on the stump, as an advocate of trickle-down economic policies that failed under two Republican Presidents in the 1980's.
Surveys of voters leaving the polls on Tuesday showed how their constituencies reflected the two candidates' messages. With some regional variations, voters in Georgia, Maryland and Colorado who backed Mr. Tsongas tended to be highly educated, moderate to conservative on economic questions, white-collar workers. Mr. Clinton's supporters tended to lack college educations, to be more liberal, to be blue-collar workers. Mr. Tsongas's backers were much younger than Mr. Clinton's, except in Colorado, where Mr. Brown took the youth vote.
Mr. Tsongas has argued that, as the Democratic nominee in November, he could attract independent voters, and the exit polls offered some support to that argument. He beat Mr. Clinton among independents in all three states.
What was most impressive about Mr. Tsongas's performance was his consistency. In addition to three victories, he came in second in three other races, in Georgia, Minnesota and Idaho, finishing third only in Colorado, where he ended up only a few thousand votes behind Mr. Clinton.
 
Wishing for Another Candidate
 In the unofficial primary in Utah, he won with 34 percent to 28 for Mr. Brown and 18 for Mr. Clinton. Peter Billings, the state Democratic chairman, said that "for Paul Tsongas to do this well in a conservative state is going to send a message to the rest of the country" about his strengths.
In Maryland, his showing was sufficiently potent to persuade Nathan Landow, the state party chairman, to sign on as the national co-chairman of the Tsongas campaign. He is one of the party's premiere fund-raisers.
And in Washington, Mr. Tsongas took 32 percent of the vote in a state with a large number of well-educated Democrats, but also a big blue-collar work force. Mr. Brown ran third, behind an uncommitted bloc, and Mr. Clinton was fourth, just falling short of the threshold for delegates in the official projection by party analysts.
The uncommitted vote totaled 20 percent, one of the largest such blocs in the state's history, and appeared to reflect voter dissatisfaction with the active candidates.
"I'd like to see Sam Nunn be named the candidate at the national convention," said one voter who went undecided at her caucus, Louise Klug, a 76-year-old housewife. "I like Brown, and I like what Tsongas has to say. But I don't think either of them is doing well enough to get elected."
Next Tuesday is a difficult hurdle for Mr. Tsongas. He is expected to cruise to victory in the two contests in his home region, in Massachusetts and Rhode Island, but most of the action is in the South, Mr. Clinton's turf. Barry White, the Tsongas campaign chairman, summed up the mood this morning with the comment, "We'd rather be someplace other than the South."
Mr. Tsongas's aides said he would concentrate on Texas and Florida, especially the suburban vote, and let some states go by default to Mr. Clinton, including Louisiana and Mississippi and possibly Tennessee.
As for Mr. Brown, who not only won in Colorado but finished second in Utah and Washington and raised enough donations to qualify anew for Federal matching money, he took off after Mr. Clinton as a symbol of politics as usual. He described the Governor as "essentially a regional candidate, fueled by huge amounts of money from the same people who got the country into the mess it's in."
Mr. Brown's narrow victory in Colorado was the result, politicians there said, of a good match between message and electorate. The state has large numbers of young, white-collar workers, technologically sophisticated, interested in the outdoors, disgusted with politics, intrigued by the offbeat.
Mr. Brown has the capacity for serious mischief-making as a third force, especially in the West, but the Californian is not a major contender, at least not yet. His campaign is so improvisational that aides were still debating today whether to continue to use commercial airlines or to charter a plane like other candidates.
Mr. Harkin won Minnesota with the help of the campaign organization of Senator Paul Wellstone and the liberal traditions of the party that nurtured the late Hubert H. Humphrey. But Mr. Tsongas ran a fairly close race, trailing 19.2 percent to 26.7, even though he had the support of no one of consequence in state politics and opened a Minnesota office only six days ago.
Victory in Minnesota and Idaho did little to solve Mr. Harkin's essential problem: his inability to prove vote-getting ability in a primary, and hence to raise money. He won Idaho, said the state party chairman, Mike Wetherell, because he spent half of Saturday in a state whose people "like to see their candidates."
But he finished fourth or fifth in the primary states on Tuesday and appeared to be hanging on mainly to please his union backers in Michigan.
Mr. Kerrey did even worse. He won no delegates because he was unable to reach the 15 percent threshold required to qualify in any state, and he ended up fourth or fifth everywhere, despite his concentration on the West for the last week.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 6, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A chart yesterday giving results of Tuesday's primaries and caucuses reversed references to two states for which no figures were shown. Minnesota held a nonbinding straw poll; Washington held caucuses.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton walking yesterday past a mural of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in the Liberty City section of Miami. He was accompanied by local politicians. While campaigning in Florida, Mr. Clinton reiterated his pledge of tax cuts for working people. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); MIAMI, FL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY NBC UNIVERSAL INC (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLORADO; MARYLAND; GEORGIA UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); MIAMI, FL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); CAUCUSES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); EASTER SEASON (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (55%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); TSONGAS, PAUL E; BROWN, EDMUND G JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J BILL CLINTON (93%); JERRY BROWN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); TOM HARKIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992



183 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Expects Ex-Soviet Republics To Get $4 Billion I.M.F. Aid Soon

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady said today that the republics of the former Soviet Union could be expected to receive about $4 billion in assistance from the International Monetary Fund in the near future.
Testifying before a House subcommittee, Mr. Brady also said the Bush Administration was renewing its call for Congress to approve $12 billion more for the I.M.F. so the organization can increase its loans to the third world and the former Soviet bloc. Since World War II, the United States has contributed $24 billion to the fund. 
 Mr. Brady said, "The I.M.F. program that is contemplated for Russia would involve roughly $4 billion over a period of a months and years."
 
Divvying Up $4 Billion
 A Treasury spokesman said later that the $4 billion was an estimate of the total that would go to all the former Soviet republics during their first year in the international lending organization. Russia and at least half a dozen other republics are expected to become members during the group's spring meeting on April 27.
Several I.M.F. and Western officials have said that the republics would take a share of between 4 percent and 4.5 percent in the fund, which would mean they would contribute about $5 billion to its capital. In a country's first year in the fund, it is traditionally allowed to borrow an amount equal to its contribution.
Mr. Brady said that a failure by Washington to approve the $12 billion additional contribution could have "extremely adverse" consequences on the fund's ability to carry out its work. Washington's delay in approving the contribution has largely prevented the I.M.F. from implementing an overall increase of $60 billion.
"Some have said that the Administration has not pushed hard enough on the I.M.F. quota increase," Mr. Brady said during his testimony, before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Foreign Operations. "Nothing can be further from the truth."
Mr. Brady said that the $12 billion contribution would be an investment, not be a donation, and that Washington would receive interest.
 
Calculating the Politics, Too
 David R. Obey, a Wisconsin Democrat and head of subcommittee, said he doubted that the $12 billion would be approved this year. Noting that in past election campaigns, the Republicans vigorously attacked the Democrats' willingness to aid the I.M.F., he said the only way Congress would back the aid would be "for the President to forthrightly state to the country in a very public way why these actions are necessary."
Secretary Brady repeated his position that it was not yet time to set up a multi-billion-dollar fund to help stabilize the ruble. While Russian officials have asked for $6 billion for such a fund, American officials have repeatedly said that the Russian economy remains too volatile and that a stabilization fund might be frittered away propping up a shaky currency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICS (65%); WORLD WAR II (56%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; BRADY, NICHOLAS F (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) DAVE OBEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1992



184 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Expects Ex-Soviet Republics To Get $4 Billion I.M.F. Aid Soon

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady said today that the republics of the former Soviet Union could be expected to receive about $4 billion in assistance from the International Monetary Fund in the near future.
Testifying before a House subcommittee, Mr. Brady also said the Bush Administration was renewing its call for Congress to approve $12 billion more for the I.M.F. so the organization can increase its loans to the third world and the former Soviet bloc. Since World War II, the United States has contributed $24 billion to the fund. 
 Mr. Brady said, "The I.M.F. program that is contemplated for Russia would involve roughly $4 billion over a period of a months and years."
 
Divvying Up $4 Billion
 A Treasury spokesman said later that the $4 billion was an estimate of the total that would go to all the former Soviet republics during their first year in the international lending organization. Russia and at least half a dozen other republics are expected to become members during the group's spring meeting on April 27.
Several I.M.F. and Western officials have said that the republics would take a share of between 4 percent and 4.5 percent in the fund, which would mean they would contribute about $5 billion to its capital. In a country's first year in the fund, it is traditionally allowed to borrow an amount equal to its contribution.
Mr. Brady said that a failure by Washington to approve the $12 billion additional contribution could have "extremely adverse" consequences on the fund's ability to carry out its work. Washington's delay in approving the contribution has largely prevented the I.M.F. from implementing an overall increase of $60 billion.
"Some have said that the Administration has not pushed hard enough on the I.M.F. quota increase," Mr. Brady said during his testimony, before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Foreign Operations. "Nothing can be further from the truth."
Mr. Brady said that the $12 billion contribution would be an investment, not be a donation, and that Washington would receive interest.
 
Calculating the Politics, Too
 David R. Obey, a Wisconsin Democrat and head of subcommittee, said he doubted that the $12 billion would be approved this year. Noting that in past election campaigns, the Republicans vigorously attacked the Democrats' willingness to aid the I.M.F., he said the only way Congress would back the aid would be "for the President to forthrightly state to the country in a very public way why these actions are necessary."
Secretary Brady repeated his position that it was not yet time to set up a multi-billion-dollar fund to help stabilize the ruble. While Russian officials have asked for $6 billion for such a fund, American officials have repeatedly said that the Russian economy remains too volatile and that a stabilization fund might be frittered away propping up a shaky currency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICS (65%); WORLD WAR II (56%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; BRADY, NICHOLAS F (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) DAVE OBEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1992



185 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-12
 
FROM RUSSIA WITH ENERGY
Seeking help to harness the vast energy of nuclear fusion, the United States is hiring more than a hundred scientists from Russia, which pioneered the field. This is the first known case in which the Federal Government has tapped Russia's scientific talent.A1
A journal is published in Moscow 13 years after being suppressed. A12
 
THE HIGH COST OF PEACE
Congress is making a concerted attack on the Bush Administration's pledges to support United Nations peacekeeping operations at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars. With the United States in a recession, lawmakers are reluctant to grant large amounts of money for international peacekeeping. A1
 
WEIGHING THE MILITARY OPTION
The Administration is considering whether to board two North Korean cargo ships that are heading for Iran loaded with ballistic missiles for Syria and Iran, Administration officials said. A10
 
SOME HELP FOR A FORMER ENEMY
The United States pledged to increase humanitarian aid to Vietnam for more cooperation from Hanoi in resolving the fate of Americans missing from the Vietnam War. But the U.S. said it was not prepared to lift its trade embargo. A2
 
U.S. BLAMES PALESTINIANS
The Bush Administration singled out the Palestinians as being primarily responsible for the lack of progress in the latest round of talks with Israel, saying they were too preoccupied with political posturing and not prepared to engage in serious negotiations with the Israelis. A10
 
RIGHTS WATCHDOG BARKS
Dispelling fears that the organization would be weakened by the addition of 10 third-world nations, the United Nations Human Rights Commission ended annual deliberations by criticizing a record 22 countries for human rights abuses. A3
 
ABORTION RULING EXPLAINED
The Irish Supreme Court justices who voted to allow a 14-year-old girl to go to England for an abortion said they feared the girl would kill herself if they refused. They appeared to broaden the legal grounds for an abortion, which has been allowed in Ireland only when the life of the mother is in immediate danger. A8
 
SETBACK FOR POLISH GOVERNMENT
The lower chamber of Parliament rejected the economic plan of Prime Minister Olszewski's Government. The Government said the plan would ease some of the sting of free-market reforms; opponents said it would rekindle inflation. A6
 
British politicians await the scheduling of a general election. A5
Miners in Turkey mourn the deaths of comrades in an explosion. A3
Prague Journal: A Harvard graduate leads the rush to capitalism. A4

National A14-21
 
SHOWDOWN IN FLORIDA
Among the 11 states that will vote in the Presidential race next Tuesday, Florida is shaping up as the most important for Governor Clinton and former Senator Tsongas. A1
For Mr. Tsongas and Pat Buchanan, Texas poses a big challenge. A18
Mr. Tsongas is set for an advertising counteroffensive. A18
The Tsongas campaign just gets curiouser and curiouser. A19
Former Governor Brown enjoys his new "status of wild card." A19
As expected, Senator Kerrey bowed out of the race. A19
 
DUKE'S OPPONENT: INDIFFERENCE
In South Carolina tomorrow, David Duke will be on the Republican Presidential ballot for the first time. But political analysts and some of his own supporters there say his thunder has been stolen by Pat Buchanan. A1
President Bush is still having trouble with his message. A20
An I.R.S. proposal may mean more trouble for the White House. A20

U.S. ADVICE ON PAINKILLERS
The Government recommended that doctors swiftly and aggressively provide painkillers to patients after surgery to decrease suffering and speed recovery. It said myths about pain management caused half of all surgical patients to suffer unrelieved, unnecessary pain. A1
 
LOS ANGELES BEATING TRIAL BEGINS
A year after a black motorist's beating by a group of white police officers was captured on videotape, testimony began in the officers' assault trial. A14
 
THE MICHELANGELO VIRUS
The nation's personal-computer users scurried to try to escape a malicious computer virus timed to erase data and programs today. A14
 
NEW HEAD OF UNITED WAY
The board of the United Way of America, grappling with the resignation of its president and new disclosures that he agreed to the destruction of some financial records, named an I.B.M. official, Kenneth W. Dam, as interim president. A15
 
A TRYING DIFFICULT OBSERVANCE
For the Muslim minority in the United States, the observance of Ramadan can be a difficult one. A21
 
The Government restored some water for California farmers. A15
 
Law Page B8
 
A judge rejected an Iran-contra defendant's bid for secret files. A16
A student group asks to sue Harvard.
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
REDISTRICTING PLAN RELEASED
Heading toward a confrontation with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, a state legislative committee released a final redistricting plan intended to increase the number of seats held by black and Hispanic politicians while cementing the Democrats' control of the Assembly and the Republicans' lock on the State Senate. A1
 
GRAVANO IS QUESTIONED
On the first day of cross-examination, a defense lawyer fired tough, sarcastic questions at Salvatore Gravano, a former Mafia underboss and the crucial prosecution witness against John Gotti. A1
 
Business Digest, D1
 
Weekend C1-34
 
Sports B9-15
Baseball: Sources say Yankees pitcher Pascual Perez recently failed a drug test. B9
Torborg's opening lineup. B9
 
Obituaries B7
Mary Osborne, jazz guitarist
Wheeler McMillen, a pioneer in industrial use of farm crops
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A32-33
Editorials A32
The New World Army.
Anonymous sources.
Topics: Not funny.
 
Letters A32
A. M. Rosenthal: The political disease. A33
Leslie H. Gelb: Banana republic, U.S.A. A33
Marlon T. Riggs: Meet the new Willie Horton. A33
Marvin Miller: Baseball's bottom-line logic. A33
Burton G. Malkiel: How to cut long-term interest rates. A33

GRAPHIC: Photo: D-day for the Michelangelo computer virus. (Associated Press) A14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); VIET NAM (92%); VIETNAM (79%); ENGLAND (79%); IRELAND (79%); TURKEY (79%); POLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); VIET NAM (92%); VIETNAM (79%); ENGLAND (79%); IRELAND (79%); TURKEY (79%); POLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SYRIA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); VIETNAM WAR (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); POLITICS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); ABORTION (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



186 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Spending for U.N. Peacekeeping Is Given Hard Look in Congress

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5

 BODY:
The Bush Administration's pledges to support huge United Nations peacekeeping operations worldwide at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars over the next two years are coming under concerted attack in Congress.
Today, when Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d appeared before a Senate subcommittee to answer questions about the State Department's 1992-1993 budget requests, he got the same message he heard in the House of Representatives on Tuesday: Congress is reluctant to grant large amounts of money to sustain international peacekeeping operations when the United States is in a recession. 
 At issue, even among members of Congress who support the United Nations efforts, is a longstanding agreement that makes the United States automatically responsible for 30 percent of the cost of every United Nations peacekeeping operation. That amount is roughly equal to the total assessment of all European Community nations, and two and a half times the amount billed to Japan.
 
Expensive Operations
 In Cambodia, in an operation that is expected to last more than a year, the United Nations expects to spend an estimated $2 billion on a force of 22,000 troops. A force of about 14,000 for Yugoslavia will cost an additional $600 million or more. The United Nations is already committed to peacekeeping operations in El Salvador and the Western Sahara.
To meet its share, the Administration is asking for an additional $810 million for the peacekeeping forces in 1992 and 1993, above the $107 million appropriated for this year. In 1991 the figure was $115 million. Although this is not foreign aid, but money to be drawn from State Department operating funds, the distinction can be lost on the voters, members of Congress say.
"I know you've been out on the road, but the home team's got to look at these budgets closer," said Senator Ernest F. Hollings, the South Carolina Democrat who is chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, State and Judiciary, which heard Mr. Baker's testimony.
Senator Hollings was referring not only to the soaring costs of peacekeeping operations but also to a general increase in almost every area of State Department operations in the post-cold-war era. Plans for new embassies in the former Soviet republics, for example, are also under attack.
There is a sense in Congress, Senator Jim Sasser, Democrat of Tennessee, told Mr. Baker today, that with domestic budget cuts on the horizon it was becoming "politically irresistible" to do something about foreign aid. "I mean, the dam's got to break," said Mr. Sasser, who says he supports the peacekeeping efforts.
"What I was trying to tell the Secretary of State is that we are in a dilemma here in Congress," Mr. Sasser said in an interview after the hearing. "Many of us recognize the importance of these peacekeeping efforts around the world and recognize our responsibility to pay our share. But at the same time, we are being whipsawed by domestic urgencies. Our constituents are saying that they have borne the burden as long as they intend to."
 
Tapping Military Funds?
 Mr. Sasser is among those who believe that foreign spending, including the money for peacekeeping, can be negotiated if the Administration is willing to consider breaking down the wall around military spending erected as part of the 1990 budget agreement. He said the international efforts could now be considered "the first line of defense in collective security."
In the House Appropriations Committee, Representative Chester G. Atkins, a Massachusetts Democrat who has raised questions about Administration intentions in carrying out the terms of the Cambodian settlement, particularly in dealing with the Khmer Rouge, echoed Senator Sasser's view when he said in an interview today that the Administration "must make a choice between arming people and disarming people."
Mr. Atkins suggested that military assistance to foreign Governments be scaled back to make more money available for peacekeeping.
In both houses, members say that the negotiations on this issue could be prolonged, with the Administration already seeking other ways of releasing money under the pending continuing resolution that covers foreign aid in the absence of a foreign aid bill.
Whether or not Congress appropriates the money, the United States will be billed by the United Nations for the peacekeeping operations, as will Russia for the 11 percent formerly borne by the Soviet Union. Russia is not expected to pay.
Congress has also faulted the Administration for what some members describe as the mishandling of the issue through the absence of dialogue, especially on the Cambodia operation, the largest peacekeeping effort the United Nations has ever undertaken. In the House, Congressional aides say that for months after the signing of the Cambodian peace accord in October, committees waited to hear about Washington's role but no plans were forthcoming before the bills began to arrive.
There is considerable concern, for example, that the cost of peacekeeping troops is only the first of a series of commitments the United States will be making in aid and other programs.
"We happen to believe that the future will be marked by the decline of ideological confrontation and the rise of collective engagement," Mr. Baker told the Senate subcommittee today.
"I suppose it should not come as any surprise," he said, "that the two most important initiatives, at least from our standpoint and our broad budget request -- first, aid to the former Soviet Union and, second, support for international peacekeeping efforts -- conform to this vision of a future characterized by a growing democratic community and the rising use of collective engagement as an instrument of our foreign policy."


GRAPHIC: Cost of U.N. peacekeeping operations, in millions.

 	 	Location	Cost	 	 	Cambodia*	$1,900.0	Yugoslavia+	634.0	Lebanon	151.5	Western Sahara	140.9	Iraq and Kuwait	80.2	Angola	52.1	Golan Heights	37.8	Cyprus	31.0	Arab-Israeli conflict	31.0	El Salvador	13.2	India and Pakistan	5.0	
*Projection for '92-'93
+'92 projection. Other figures for '91.
 
(Source: United Nations)
Chart: "Keeping Peace"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); WESTERN SAHARA (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CYPRUS (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); WESTERN SAHARA (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CYPRUS (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY PEACEKEEPING (95%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BARBARA BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



187 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Florida;
Florida Becomes Main Battlefield For Democrats on Super Tuesday

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla., March 5

 BODY:
Bill Clinton approaches the Florida primary on Tuesday with more money to spend and a stronger organization behind him than his main rival, Paul E. Tsongas.
But the demographics of Florida, which has millions of transplants from the north and a disproportionately large number of well educated, white professionals, may favor Mr. Tsongas. 
 By all accounts, the two candidates are now running neck and neck here. So Florida, with its multitude of personalities and rich lode of delegates, is shaping up as the most important showdown for Mr. Clinton, the Governor of Arkansas, and Mr. Tsongas among the 11 states that will vote on Super Tuesday.
Texas, another Super Tuesday state, offers even more delegates than Florida. But Governor Clinton is heavily favored to win that state because it adjoins Arkansas, just as President Bush hopes to score a decisive victory against his challenger, Patrick J. Buchanan, because Texas is a state Mr. Bush can call home. [Page A18.]
 
Gathering Speed
 Three months ago, Mr. Tsongas was hardly known in Florida. In a straw poll of delegates to the state Democratic convention in mid-December, the former Massachusetts Senator won less than 2 percent of the vote, as against 54 percent for Mr. Clinton.
But Mr. Tsongas gathered momentum from his victories in New Hampshire and Maryland and his strong showings in other contests, and with four in five Floridians having been born out of state, Mr. Clinton's Southern accent is not the point of pride here that it is elsewhere in the South.
Former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California and Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa are hardly factors here, although some politicians say Mr. Brown could drain a few percentage points from Mr. Tsongas's vote. The staffs of Mr. Clinton and Mr. Tsongas were scrambling to win over the remnants of the rather feeble Florida campaign of Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, who withdrew from the race today.
 
Turnout May Be a Factor
 President Bush has the Republican primary locked up, and neither he Mr. Buchanan is spending a great deal of resources in Florida. Still, if Mr. Buchanan wins 30 percent of the vote or more Tuesday as he has in earlier primaries, that could be seen as a rebuff to the President in a state where he is as popular as he is anywhere in the country.
The Democratic race seems likely to turn on two imponderables: the size of the turnout among the main sources of Mr. Clinton's strength, whites without college degrees and blacks, as well as the degree to which Floridians are upset by Mr. Tsongas's advocacy of cuts around the edges in Social Security and Medicare and an increase in the Federal gasoline tax, proposals that strike harder here than in most other states.
A statewide telephone poll sponsored by the newspapers in Florida owned by The New York Times Company shows Mr. Clinton and Mr. Tsongas each supported by about one-quarter of the likely Democratic electorate and a third of the potential primary voters still undecided. The poll, released for publication in Friday's papers, was conducted between Feb. 27 and March 3. A poll last weekend by Mason-Dixon Opinion Research had similar findings.
Next Tuesday, the biggest single primary day of the year, Mr. Tsongas seems assured of victory in his home state of Massachusetts and in Rhode Island, and Mr. Clinton appears to have a solid grip on Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Oklahoma and Tennessee.
So both candidates are focusing on Florida, where 148 delegates are at stake, more than in all but six other states. Mr. Clinton and Mr. Tsongas plan to spend half a million dollars or more apiece on television advertising between now and Tuesday and will be traveling here for most of the weekend.
 
Big Names, Big Organization
 Mr. Clinton began organizing in Florida last year and rounded up endorsements from most of the state's important Democrats, including Senator Bob Graham and Lieut. Gov. Buddy MacKay, who is the Clinton campaign chairman. Gov. Lawton Chiles is officially uncommitted, but his daughter worked for a time on the Clinton staff.
"This is the best campaign organization I have ever seen," said Mayor Sandy Freedman of Tampa, who has been through many previous Presidential primaries.
Organization is especially important in Florida, where political parties and labor unions are weak and where each candidate must run his own effort to get supporters to the polls. Four years ago, Michael S. Dukakis was able to rely on a strong organization here for a primary victory that proved to be a turning point in his successful campaign for the Democratic nomination.
In his campaign speeches so far in Florida, Mr. Clinton has calibrated his message to fit his audiences. On Tuesday at a synagogue in Delray Beach, he put on a white yarmulke, accused President Bush of an "oil-based Middle East policy" and declared: "I will not use the awesome power of the Presidency beyond the borders, ever, to try to shore up my political weakness at home."
Was Mr. Clinton accusing the President of establishing a Middle East policy for domestic political advantage? He did not say directly.
 
Hammering at Tsongas
 At almost every stop Mr. Clinton hammers away at the Tsongas position on Social Security, Medicare and gasoline taxes.
In the campaign manifesto he wrote last year, Mr. Tsongas advocated "reducing the yearly increase in entitlements by one percent below the cost of living." Mr. Tsongas does not talk about that proposal much any more, and it is not clear exactly what he meant by it. But one in every five Floridians receives Social Security benefits, and Tuesday, when this month's checks were delivered, was like a statewide payday with long lines at the teller windows.
Mr. Tsongas speaks often of requiring elderly beneficiaries with annual incomes above $125,000 to pay higher premiums for Medicare coverage, and he says taxing the Social Security payments of people with incomes above that level might eventually be necessary for deficit reduction.
A Clinton commercial already on the air mentions this issue in passing, and the Governor's state campaign director, Jeff Eller, said the staff was considering running an advertisement devoted entirely to the topic.
Mr. Tsongas's support of a 5-cents-a-gallon increase in the Federal gasoline tax every year for 10 years has also come under fire. Driving is the only way to get around in most of Florida, and the state's economy depends to a large extent on tourists who drive here.
For his part, Mr. Tsongas is sticking to his theme that personal sacrifice and support for business is essential to strengthen the country's economy, and polls show that he seems to have caught on among the college-educated white professionals who are a powerful force in commercial centers like Miami, Tampa, Jacksonville and Orlando.
"It's a trendy state," said Paul Pezzella, a veteran political organizer in Florida who was running the Kerrey campaign. "It's loaded with young, want-to-be-wealthy suburban voters who have come from elsewhere, and that's a constituency that Tsongas is poised to do very well with."

GRAPHIC: Table: "Florida Profile"
 
Democratic primary: March 10
Delegates at stake: 148
 
All figures are for 1990 except where indicated. Florida's population in 1990, excluding people living abroad, was 12,937,926 or 5.2 percent of the U.S. total. It ranks fourth among the states in population.

 	 	 		Florida	U.S.	 	 	 	Growth since 1980	 	 		32.7%	9.8%	Median age	 	 		36.4	32.8		 	 	Married couple households		54.4%	59.7%	Unemployment rate	 	 	Jan. '92	8.7%	7.1%	Per capita income	 	 		$18,586	$18,685	Race	 	 	White	83.1%	80.3%	Black	13.6%	12.1	American Indian	0.3	0.8	Asian	1.2	2.9	Other*	1.8	3.9		 	 	*Did not specify on census form.	Hispanic	12.2	9.0		 	 	People of Hispanic origin can be of any race.	 	 	 	(Sources: Census Bureau; The Almanac of American Politics, 1992; The World Almanac and Book of Facts, 1992; Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. A18)	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (80%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (99%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY NEW YORK TIMES CO (80%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; FLORIDA UNITED STATES (99%); FLORIDA, USA (99%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); MEDICARE (60%); FUEL TAX (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; TSONGAS, PAUL E; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); JERRY BROWN (55%); TOM HARKIN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



188 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: U.S. PLANS TO HIRE RUSSIAN SCIENTISTS IN FUSION RESEARCH

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
The Federal Government is hiring more than a hundred scientists from Russia to help America harness the vast energy of nuclear fusion. Russia pioneered the field, in which powerful magnetic fields are used to try to tame for constructive use the kind of thermonuclear fire that lights the sun.
The deal is the first known case in which the Government has tapped Russia's scientific talent, although private industry has already done so. 
 Russian scientists, desperate amid a crumbling economy, can now be hired for a pittance by Western standards. In a one-year $90,000 contract, the United States will buy the services of 116 Russian scientists. While this amount comes to only $65 a month per scientist, it equals 6,500 rubles a month, or more than seven times the unofficial national average monthly wage of 900 rubles.
 
Sponsor Is Energy Department
 The fusion research is to be done by scientists at the Kurchatov Institute of Atomic Energy in Moscow on a type of fusion reactor known as a tokamak and the findings are to be sent to the United States. The work is sponsored by the United States Energy Department, which finances similar research in this country.
"This will advance the U.S. program at a cost that is very modest," Dr. N. Anne Davies, the department's head of fusion research, said yesterday in an interview.
The Russians invented the tokamak reactor and over the decades have built a number of the giant machines at the Kurchatov Institute in an attempt to perfect the method. A tokamak, whose name is derived from the Russian acronym for a toroidal, or doughnut-shaped, magnetic chamber, uses magnetic fields to "bottle" extremely hot thermonuclear reactions. This type of reactor is principally being used by scientists around the world in trying to achieve fusion.
 
Goal for 21st Century
 The ultimate aim is to fashion machines that would produce a new kind of nuclear energy that is cheap, clean and virtually inexhaustible some time in the 21st century.
The Federal Government sees the Russian research as inherently peaceful and apparently has no qualms about aiding it. In contrast, the Bush Administration has quietly blocked the purchase of missiles, rocket engines, space reactors and other aerospace goods from the former Soviet Union in an attempt to cripple the Russian military complex so it poses no future threat to the United States.
The fusion deal is also different from the recent effort to redirect Russian nuclear bomb designers. The Administration has pledged $25 million to help establish an institute to keep them occupied with peaceful scientific work.
 
Role for San Diego Company
 In contrast, the fusion initiative is an attempt, at least in part, not only to sample the cream of Russian science and technology but also to save one of the world's top teams of fusion scientists.
The contract will buy the equivalent of millions of dollars' worth of fusion research in the United States, said Dr. Thomas C. Simonen, director of tokamak programs at General Atomics, a private company in San Diego that will direct the Russian work.
Fusion produces energy by fusing, or welding, the atoms of light elements. In contrast, the nuclear fission reactors now in operation around the world make energy by breaking apart the atoms of heavy elements like uranium.
A major attraction of fusion is that the main fuel, deuterium, a heavy form of hydrogen, can be easily extracted from water in nearly endless quantities. In theory, fusion could produce far more energy from, say, the top two inches of Lake Erie than exists in all the earth's known oil reserves.
Despite the allure of fusion energy, the efforts of thousands of scientists and the expenditure of many billions of dollars over nearly a half-century, the goal of controlling fusion has remained elusive because of its intrinsic difficulty.
The closest natural example is the sun, where temperatures at the core are 14 million degrees centigrade and gravitational pressures are crushing. There, atomic nuclei are driven so close together that they fuse and release vast energy.
 
200 Million Degrees Centigrade
 In a fusion reactor, the temperature must be higher, around 200 million degrees centigrade, since the fusion fuel undergoes far less compression than materials at the center of the sun.
For years, the twin goals of fusion research have been to boost the temperature of fuels and to create proper magnetic fields to hold them. The fuels are so hot that they would instantly melt any metal, ceramic or glass vessel.
Russian scientists have made major strides in achieving both goals. They pioneered the most widely accepted magnet design for a reactor, the doughnut-shaped tokamak, and invented innovative ways to heat fuels with beams of microwave energy.
But they have now fallen on hard times. Most fusion equipment at the Kurchatov Institute is said to be idle for lack of funds.
 
Russian Proposal in November
 Last November, the Russians proposed doing experiments for the American fusion program when Energy Department officials visited Moscow. Though interested, the officials moved cautiously to make sure the proposal was acceptable financially, legally and politically. Dr. Simonen of General Atomics said it had been approved last month by the State Department and the White House.
"The biggest hurdle was the U.S. Government," he said, "and now that's gone through." The Russians, he added, are expected to return a signed contract soon. The Russian team is so eager to get started, Dr. Simonen said, that it has already begun working for the American program in an experiment that will take about five months.
The Kurchatov team, which is headed by Dr. Boris Kadomtsev, consists of scientists, engineers and technicians. It is now working on a reactor known as T-10, which is not the largest tokamak at the institute but has the world's most powerful microwave source for heating fusion fuel.
The institute is named after Dr. Igor V. Kurchatov, the father of the Soviet A-bomb. For decades it has done little or no weapons work, focusing instead on making innovative reactors, including ones for use in space.
 
Fears About U.S. Scientists
 While the arrangement with the Russians is seen as a way to advance American fusion research, there is also concern about its potential effects on scientists in the United States.
Dr. Stephen O. Dean, president of Fusion Power Associates in Gaithersburg, Md., a nonprofit group that promotes fusion research, said the deal was probably good for the American program but worried that if such efforts grew too much they could hurt American fusion researchers, who have already seen cuts in their budgets.
"We can afford to buy the whole Soviet scientific establishment," Dr. Dean said.
But Dr. Davies of the Energy Department said fears of hurting American researchers were unfounded, especially considering the relatively small investment of $90,000 in Russian scientists whose work is expected to complement fusion research at General Atomics in San Diego.
"At this level of funding, that's not going to be a problem," she said. "This is so clearly to our benefit. I see this as a bridge for the Kurchatov fusion team until they are able to move forward on their own as a healthy research program."


GRAPHIC: Soviet scientists invented the tokamak fusion reactor, the best hope for harnessing the fusion energy like that of the sun. Now the United States is hiring more than 100 Soviet fusion scientists.
Diagram: "Tapping Russian Fusion Expertise"
 If deuterium and tritium, two forms of hydrogen, are compressed at great heat, they fuse to form helium, releasing a burst of energy in the form of speeding neutrons. Tokamaks use magnetic fields as "containers" for such extremely hot thermonuclear reactions.
 
Diagram of fusion reactor (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (55%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: KURCHATOV INSTITUTE OF ATOMIC ENERGY (MOSCOW); ENERGY DEPARTMENT (US) XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (55%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (90%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: KURCHATOV INSTITUTE OF ATOMIC ENERGY (MOSCOW); ENERGY DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (90%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA; UNITED STATES; RUSSIA UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: FUSION (NUCLEAR REACTION); HIRING AND PROMOTION; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; ATOMIC ENERGY SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY RESEARCH (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (88%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); INTERVIEWS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (60%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (54%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



189 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Debate;
Economy, and Brown, Are Focus of a Democratic Round Table

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, March 5

 BODY:
The remaining contenders for the Democratic nomination returned to the debate round table tonight, wrangling about who has the best plan to revive the nation's sluggish economy.
In the debate, broadcast by ABC, the expected two-man contest between former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts and Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas failed to materialize. The candidates took aim instead at Edmund G. Brown Jr., who won his first state primary this week. 
 Mr. Brown, the former Governor of California who stepped down as chairman of his state party last year, came in for criticism when he faulted the other Democrats for falling victim to the "choke hold" of special interests who sponsor "thousand-dollar fund-raisers."
 
Challenging Brown
 Mr. Brown won the Colorado primary last week with a shoestring campaign that has become a new threat to the other Democrats, and Mr. Clinton, Mr. Tsongas and Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa all challenged his anti-establishment message.
"Jerry Brown is a born-again insurgent," Mr. Clinton said. "He was the biggest of the big money raisers until he decided to run for President."
Mr. Harkin added, "You can't sit there with a straight face and paint us all as corrupt, Jerry." Each candidate competed to prove he was not captive of a selected few big contributors by citing the numbers of individuals who have given money to his campaign.
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Tsongas, who disagreed about the need for a cut in the capital gains tax rate to spur investment, cast their dispute as a fundamental disagreement on the best way to revive the economy.
"While we're having this discussion, in Japan, they're investing," Mr. Tsongas said. "In Germany, they're investing. So there is an inevitability to what happens if you don't invest."
Mr. Clinton said reducing capital gains taxes would benefit the rich and stockholders who fared best in the 1980's. Both he and Mr. Harkin said they would favor targeted investment tax credits and a middle-income tax cut instead.
The candidates returned to their disagreement over tax policy in answer to nearly every question, demonstrating their conviction that the economy will be a cutting issue across the South.
Earlier today, Mr. Clinton seized on a published report of Congressional Budget Office statistics concluding that the richest 1 percent of Americans gained the most in the 1980's. Waving copies of the front-page New York Times article at a news conference today and again in the debate tonight, Mr. Clinton accused Mr. Tsongas of being the candidate of the rich.
It is a theme that is certain to dominate the final weekend of campaigning for Super Tuesday as Mr. Tsongas reaches for a critical victory in Florida and a respectable showing elsewhere.
Mr. Brown challenged Mr. Clinton's claim to minority voters' loyalties by asserting that the Governor had failed to pass a civil rights bill in Arkansas and had pandered to white voters by having his photograph taken at a prison boot camp in Georgia where the majority of the prisoners are black.
Mr. Brown said the photograph, which appeared in The New York Times and showed Mr. Clinton talking to Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia in the foreground, conveyed the impression of "almost a bunch of Willie Hortons" with "two white guys standing in front of them like colonial masters."
Mr. Clinton rejected the racial characterization and said he went to the boot camp to demonstrate his commitment to alternatives to incarceration.
The taping of the debate was delayed 45 minutes tonight after three of the candidates, Mr. Harkin, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Tsongas, threatened to walk out over a disagreement on how the question-and-answer exchange would be conducted. Donald Sweitzer, an adviser to Mr. Harkin, said the disagreement turned into a shouting match with the candidates on one side and Peter Jennings of ABC News, the moderator, and Roone Arledge, the ABC president, on the other.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton, foreground, and former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. checking their notes before the Democratic debate last night in Dallas. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; DEBATING POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TAX RELIEF (69%); INCOME TAX (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); FUNDRAISING (69%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BROWN, EDMUND G JR; HARKIN, TOM (SEN); TSONGAS, PAUL E; IFILL, GWEN JERRY BROWN (93%); BILL CLINTON (93%); TOM HARKIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



190 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Reporter's Notebook;
Tsongas Mystified by His Own Magic

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, March 5

 BODY:
Some of Paul E. Tsongas's aides, still befuddled by their candidate's unlikely and uneven appeal, call his campaign The Magical Mystery Tour.
It is a good name for a campaign that just gets curiouser and curiouser. The more excitement that surrounds the former Massachusetts Senator, the more his advance team blares campaign anthems like Marcia Griffiths's "The Electric Boogie Woogie" and the Rolling Stones' "Start Me Up," the less exciting Mr. Tsongas appears. 
 Partly, his aides say, he is trying not to get too "juiced up" because he just wants to present the same steady mein that he had for the 10 months his campaign was ignored. Partly, one is dealing here with a man who had to be forced to abandon his favorite topic of abolishing quarterly reports and who refers to his quixotic effort not as "the impossible dream," but "the impossible task."
As the maverick from Lowell, Mass., travels rodeo territory, he knows he is riding a bronco of angry public opinion. He is just not sure how he got there or how long he can hang on.
Mr. Tsongas's aides say he has gotten "a taste" of being the front-runner now and is determined to do "whatever it takes to win," as one aide put it, in an unconscious and inauspicious echo of President Bush's phrase. Tsongas advisers say the candidate plans to take on Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas on issues and on integrity, in a way that will show that this Greek from Massachusetts is not a limp punching bag.
Mr. Tsongas is still stewing over the fact that Mr. Clinton has not called to apologize for biting remarks made by Gov. Zell Miller of Georgia, even though Ronald H. Brown, the Democratic Party chairman, has called the level of political discourse "mild" so far compared to other years.
Mr. Tsongas has been sneaking up on the confrontation by calling their duel "the machine versus the message" and using the word slick to describe the Clinton camp. He also noted that Mr. Clinton still has a lot more money than he does and "money can cure a lot of sins."
Even Mr. Tsongas remains a bit shell-shocked and mystified by his sudden surge.
The other night, he descended from his plane clutching a pink box labelled "steam inhaler," containing a small humidifier he puts in his room at night to help his dry throat and incessant cough.
Television lights flooded the tarmac and Mr. Tsongas was asked about his victory in Maryland and close third-place showing in Colorado. He had not seen the results. The lights went off while a harried press aide snatched the untelegenic inhaler out of his arms and a reporter went to get the candidate some exit poll data.
Asked the secret of his success so far, even the candiate seems puzzled. "I wish I knew," he said with a sigh.
 
Falling for 'Tsongie Bongie'
In a campaign so disorganized it often feels like it could be an entry for "America's Funniest Home Videos," several questions arise.
Can the public ever fall in love with a candidate whose most exciting moment came when he informed reporters that his childhood nickname was "Tsongie Bongie?"
While many chastened Americans seem drawn to Mr. Tsongas's disciplinary message that they must pay for the excesses of the 1980's with sacrifice and hard work so that their children can have a better life, will they eventually turn away from such spartan fare in favor of a little more sugar, rejecting Dr. No for a Dr. Feelgood?
Can they embrace a candidate whose social life at Dartmouth was so dull that he went to bed at 10 P.M. with a pillow over his head so that he would not be disturbed by the college revelry around him, and, as he says, "still sleeps that way"? By a man so straight he now falls asleep on the plane clutching a campaign button on his shirt that bears the image of his wife, Niki?
Can voters be swept off their feet by a candidate whose speaking style has led network camera crews to nickname him Elmer Fudd? (And this compared to Mr. Clinton's more glamorous camera-crew nickname of Elvis.)
 
Bashing Both Parties
When Mr. Tsongas called the Democratic House leadership the other day to suggest a conciliatory lunch, he was not even sure that House Speaker Thomas S. Foley would come to the telephone.
Mr. Tsongas has been campaigning to become the nominee of his party as much by bashing Democrats as Republicans. He calls the Democratic leaders insensitive to the mood of the country and rails that they have unfairly put on a commercial exhorting the middle-class tax cut endorsed by Mr. Tsongas's rivals.
The leadership is terrified, stuck between the Massachusetts rock (an uncharismatic former cancer survivor who talks like a Republican) and the Arkansas hard place (accusations surrounding Mr. Clinton).
The Democrats in Washington watch aghast as one of their front-runners holds a rally in Wall Street and goes about the country talking about venture capital and a capital gains tax cut and getting tough with labor and changing his party into a "hybrid" of Democratic and Republican principles.
In what other Democratic campaign would you have ever heard this exchange?
In Orlando, speaking to the Professional Employment Network, a volunteer organization made up of unemployed executives and professionals, Mr. Tsongas was asked about his plan to tax the wealthy to pay for a targeted capital gains tax cut for securities held long term.
"The question is," one distinguished looking gentleman asked, "what is wealthy?"
"Well, for me, it's $125,000 a year," Mr. Tsongas replied.
"Is that family net income?" the man inquired, as another voice from the back also yelled out, "Is that net?"
Even Mr. Tsongas rolled his eyes at that one.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul E. Tsongas meeting with his staff to discuss campaign strategy yesterday at a Dallas hotel. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (65%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); 

PERSON: TSONGAS, PAUL E; DOWD, MAUREEN BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



191 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Memo;
President Goes South, Tooting His Own Horn

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OKLAHOMA CITY, March 5

 BODY:
With apologies to his mother, who taught him never to toot his own horn, President Bush was bragging the other day, sort of.
"My mother's living up the coast here in Florida," he declared in Miami, "so I've got to be careful, but I think I've been a good President." 
 "I don't want to come across as arrogant," he said today in Columbia, S.C., "but I believe I'm going to win."
On a trip to Oklahoma and five other states with nominating contests in the next week, Mr. Bush is declaring that he stands for "family, jobs and peace." After apologizing for breaking his 1988 campaign pledge by raising taxes in 1990, he is vowing to veto any new tax increase "the minute it hits my desk" and assuring everyone that, as he put it today, "life means nothing without fidelity to principles."
 
Articulating a Message
 After nearly two months of trying to figure out how to speak to voters, the President is trying to settle on a consistent message built around the "family, jobs and peace" line he introduced last week in Georgia.
But Mr. Bush and his political advisers are having trouble articulating this message, and that sometimes puts the President in the position of relying on the argument that he should be re-elected simply because he has experience and likes his job. "Send the rest of the Super Tuesday states a strong message: I want to be your President for four more years, so give me that vote," he said today as he left South Carolina, which holds a primary on Saturday, three days before the cluster of contests known as Super Tuesday.
This may be a reasonable argument. But it is tactical -- not ideological, philosophical or substantive. And Mr. Bush's new message essentially is a repackaging of familiar themes and programs, not a look at new ones.
There is still a strong sense that the President and his aides believe deep in their bones that there is nothing really amiss and that it is just a matter of waiting for Mr. Bush's popularity to rebound along with the the economy.
 
'People Ask for More'
 "George Bush is a very nice, decent, honest man and he thinks, 'Doing a good job. Being a good President to all the people. Why don't they leave me alone?' " said Thomas S. Winters, editor of the conservative journal Human Events. "He thinks he's running a decent Administration and that's all that people should ask for. But people ask for more."
Mr. Winters's point was driven home this morning by one of Mr. Bush's own supporters, William J. Bennett, the former drug policy director. "The Administration's political challenge, still, is to find definition and a clear raison d'etre for a second term," Mr. Bennett said in an article published on the op-ed page of The New York Times today.
That, clearly, is what Mr. Bush is searching for as he travels the country and, in speeches, elaborates on what he means by "family, jobs and peace."
"We believe that parents, not the Government, should make the decisions that matter in life," he said today. "Parents, not Government, should choose their children's schools."
Mr. Bush inveighs against "socialized" medicine -- a reference to national health insurance -- and promotes his own plan to expand health insurance "for rich and poor alike" by providing tax credits. He calls welfare reform, a new emphasis for him, a way to keep families together and says Government should "crack down on deadbeat dads, the ones who can't be bothered to pay child support."
To promote jobs, Mr. Bush offers the economic program outlined in the State of the Union Message and reminds Congress that he wants his list of the seven most urgent programs passed by March 20. Bush advisers considered that unlikely from the start but hope to persuade voters that Mr. Bush has done his best and if the recession continues, it is the Democrats' fault.
By "peace" Mr. Bush means the decline of Communism, for which he generally takes credit. In Hialeah on Wednesday, he trumpeted his delight that Fidel Castro is "isolated." Most of all, Mr. Bush means victory over Iraq, a memory he evokes at every opportunity.
 
Damage Control
 But much of what Mr. Bush says on the road still has the flavor of damage control against attacks by his rival for the Republican nomination, Patrick J. Buchanan. As Mr. Buchanan has accused Mr. Bush of not keeping his word, the President's oratory has become filled with words like "principle" and "faith."
"I learned a great deal when I was young from the greatest teachers I ever had, and that was my parents," he said today. "And in church and in dinner and in political talks of my mom and my dad, I learned that life means nothing without fidelity to principles. It's what I believed as a Navy pilot in World War II, as a businessman and now as your President."
Mr. Bush also is driven by the continued disaffection among conservatives. He mentions Ronald Reagan in virtually every speech and his expression of regret at the 1990 tax increase was intended to appease the right. Now, he says, if Congress passes a new tax, "I will veto it. Absolutely. Positively."
Mr. Bush does not directly criticize Mr. Buchanan; he avoids mentioning him at all. "You don't get anywhere if you start trying to tear down the other guy or appealing to the ugly side of things," he told reporters today. "We reject the haters and we're for the American people."
Mr. Bush added that he expects to make up with Mr. Buchanan at the end of the primaries. "I've always been able to get together with people," he said.
But that, too, is dictated by the courting of the right. Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said Mr. Bush considers Mr. Buchanan's campaign "offensive." But he said, "We want those conservatives to be with us in November."
Mr. Bush's advisers also are struggling to plot a tactical course for a campaign that often seems to gallop ahead of them. The planned length of this Southern trip, for example, has changed several times.
Senior aides concluded that too much campaigning is un-Presidential. Mr. Bush now plans to head home on Saturday after three days' campaigning and a little bass fishing in Alabama.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (57%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (57%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (69%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



192 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: I.R.S. Still Asks to See Church Records

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5

 BODY:
The White House chief of staff, Samuel K. Skinner, said today that the Bush Administration was still considering a proposal that would allow the Internal Revenue Service to scrutinize lists of large donors to churches, despite assurances by Vice President Dan Quayle last week that the proposal was dead.
The I.R.S. proposal, buried deep in the 1993 Federal budget recommendations that Mr. Bush sent to Congress in January, angered many religious organizations when it was first publicized last month. 
 Conservative Christians, an important constituency of the Bush White House, were particularly enraged, and Patrick J. Buchanan, campaigning for the Republican Presidential nomination, quickly seized on the proposal to attack Mr. Bush. Buchanan television advertisements accused the President of breaking a promise to conservatives to keep Government out of the affairs of the church.
Faced with those attacks, Mr. Quayle denounced the proposal in a nationally broadcast interview last week as an ill-conceived "nonsense rule" and said it did not have his or Mr. Bush's backing. But today Mr. Skinner left open the prospect that the plan, which would require Congressional approval, might eventually win White House support.
 
Trying to Aid Bush Image
 "No decisions have been made," he said. "There are arguments on both sides, O.K.? It's not dead. Nobody has killed it."
Mr. Skinner made the remark, in a meeting with several reporters, to underscore his contention that Mr. Bush had not continually reversed himself on issues, shifting White House policies to the right to blunt Mr. Buchanan's conservative Presidential campaign.
But Mr. Skinner's contradiction of the Vice President seemed to hold the potential for political strife that would give Mr. Buchanan new leeway to charge that the President was a counterfeit conservative. It also came amid a Bush re-election campaign whose bumpy start has prompted comment in Washington that Mr. Skinner lacks a sensitive political touch.
In today's interview, the chief of staff weighed in with sharp words on a number of touchy political subjects.
 
'Smell a Crass Politician'
 He denounced the Senate Democratic leader, George J. Mitchell of Maine, as "the most partisan majority leader we've had this century," adding: "I can smell a crass politician when I see him. And I can smell one who puts politics above his country."
Mr. Skinner was assailing Senator Mitchell's role in pressing Democrats to support economic-growth legislation that he is touting as an alternative to Mr. Bush's legislative proposal. The Democratic package narrowly passed the House last week.
"I'm not saying that Senator Mitchell smells," Mr. Skinner added later. "But I would put him in the category of people who are playing crass politics with the American people's pocketbook."
Senator Mitchell said in a statement today that the White House should "spend more time solving the economic problems that have faced our country for nearly two years, and less time on political name-calling."
 
Hard Words for Frohnmayer
 Mr. Skinner also defended his recent decision to force the resignation of the head of the National Endowment for the Arts, John Frohnmayer, one day after the endowment came under fierce attack from Mr. Buchanan. To do otherwise, Mr. Skinner said, would have been "to keep an incompetent lame-duck administrator who is with controversy in a job to protect yourself politically."
Mr. Frohnmayer did not return a reporter's call to his home.
Mr. Skinner also said that recent accusations that Mr. Bush had changed his Administration's policies for political convenience had been fed by a "frenzy" of reporting by a national press that, he contended, had too often ignored the facts.
Among the issues misrepresented, he said, was the status of the I.R.S. proposal, which the White House was reported to have removed from its 1993 budget legislation to avoid alienating conservatives in this election year.
The proposal is intended to detect taxpayers who inflate the size of charitable contributions for which they claim deductions on their income-tax returns.
 
Church and Bureaucracy
 Under current law, most tax-exempt groups that receive more than $25,000 annually must name those donors who contribute more than $5,000 in money or property in a year. But churches and their related charities have been exempt from that requirement.
The Administration's proposal would lower the reporting threshold to $500 from $5,000 a year, and include churches, synagogues, mosques and their charities with the other nonprofit organizations that must report such donations. Church and nonprofit groups across the political spectrum have opposed the plan, saying it would flood them with paperwork and place Government squarely in the middle of religious and charitable affairs.
In a television interview on Feb. 23, a day after the proposal was first widely disclosed, Mr. Quayle denounced it. "You know how big that budget is, and I can assure you that I didn't know it was in there, the President didn't know it was in there," Mr. Quayle said. He added, "That piece of legislation is not going to have our support."
But today Mr. Skinner said this was not necessarily so. Told that Mr. Quayle had said otherwise, he replied: "Well, all I know is that it isn't dead -- I mean, not right now."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; FINANCES; GIFTS RELIGION (94%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); CHURCH & STATE (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (54%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); SKINNER, SAMUEL K; WINES, MICHAEL GEORGE J MITCHELL (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



193 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Exchanges in TriBeCa Approved

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
The New York City Council's land-use committee yesterday approved two scaled-down versions of a new building to house the city's commodities exchanges, but the troubled, city-subsidized project is still in danger of falling apart.
The project was dealt a severe blow in January when the largest of the city's five commodities exchanges, the New York Mercantile Exchange, pulled out of the project. 
 The other four exchanges -- the Commodity Exchange; the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange; the New York Cotton Exchange, and the New York Futures Exchange -- have pledged to go ahead with a smaller version of the building, to be erected on a city-owned lot bounded by Greenwich, West, Warren and Murray Streets in TriBeCa.
Though the project cleared one of the last bureaucratic hurdles, it still faces an uphill battle. The financing is uncertain, and government officials from state and city development agencies have not decided on a new package of grants and tax breaks.
The city and state development corporations pledged $100 million in direct subsidies and more than $45 million in special tax breaks to the project, when it surfaced more than a year ago. The package amounted to a desperate effort to keep the exchanges from making good on their threat more than a year ago to move to Jersey City, taking about 11,700 jobs and $100 million in city taxes annually with them.
But since the Mercantile Exchange dropped out, the plan has been scrapped. Yesterday members of the Council committee, who were expecting to approve plans for a 47-story building with two big trading floors, found themselves giving approval to a shrinking, still-evolving project in which the architectural details are up in the air, the partners in the project have no firm agreement and the financing is still being ironed out.
The project has also been dogged by opposition from nearby residents and the local Community Board, who have been pressing the developers for park space to be included.
The presidents of the exchanges were to meet with city and state officials last night to begin negotiating a new agreement, said Carl Weisbrod, president of the City Economic Development Corporation.
The committee approved two separate plans, one for the four remaining exchanges and a slightly taller building in the event that the fifth rejoins the pack. The Mercantile Exchange has not announced its plans. The committee voted 12 to 2 to allow either an 18-story or a 22-story building, both with a huge box-like base to accommodate a 51,000-square foot trading floor.
The exchanges have insisted that the trading floor is their main reason for wanting to move from their current headquarters in the World Trade Center, which has a cramped, 28,000-square-foot trading area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE; COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK; COFFEE, SUGAR AND COCOA EXCHANGE, NY; NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE ; NEW YORK FUTURES EXCHANGE ICE FUTURES US (57%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE; COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK; COFFEE, SUGAR AND COCOA EXCHANGE, NY; NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE ; NEW YORK FUTURES EXCHANGE COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; TRIBECA (NYC) UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMMODITIES; ZONING; LAND USE POLICIES; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (97%); COMMODITIES TRADING (94%); FIBER MARKETS (90%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); CITIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); FUTURES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ZONING (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); COFFEE (70%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



194 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: British Parties Await Signal for Start of Race

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, March 5

 BODY:
Neil Kinnock, the opposition Labor Party leader, who hopes to replace John Major as Prime Minister as soon as he calls a general election, already has the campaign meticulously planned.
Every day has its chosen issue, with the Labor Party shadow cabinet ready to fan out across the country to pound Conservative positions, says Glenys Kinnock, his wife, and she will be among them. She fully expects to move into 10 Downing Street with her husband and their two children the day after the election. 
 The only thing Mr. and Mrs. Kinnock and 57 million fellow Britons do not know for sure is what day the election will take place, though by now they all assume it will be April 9. Mr. Major can keep the suspense up until 17 working days before then; theoretically, he can also surprise everybody and decide on May 7, local election day across much of the country, or even later, up to July 9.
The uncertainty has led to an early start to the silly season. Even Mr. Kinnock was caught up in it Tuesday, after a tipster at Buckingham Palace told him that the Prime Minister was seeing Queen Elizabeth II that night, and the Opposition leader thought for a moment that Mr. Major might be preparing to ask her to dissolve Parliament for the elections.
 
Hints of April Election
 He didn't. But Mr. Major's aides have made it clear by other hints that he will, soon. The new Parliament will convene right after the election, and then disperse almost immediately for a recess, one of Mr. Major's closest aides said Wednesday, blushing when it became apparent that this could only mean the Easter recess; Easter falls on April 19 this year. Ergo, elections April 9.
Mr. Kinnock, at a diplomatic dinner party on Wednesday night, seemed almost gleeful about his chances whatever the date, though national polls show his Labor Party running only about even with the Conservatives -- Labor 40 percent, Conservatives 39 percent, Liberal Democrats 18 percent, according to a national poll of 2,952 voters conducted by the Mori organization for The Sunday Times between Feb. 21 and 25.
With the questions that animate the American primary campaign -- who will run against the incumbent, and whether he will be re-nominated -- long since settled in Britain, the main question here is whether either of the two biggest parties can win a majority -- 326 seats -- and form a government.
If neither major party wins a majority, Mr. Major would have two options. Since the Conservatives now have 368 seats, such an outcome would mean, in effect, that Mr. Major had lost the election, and he might resign and let Mr. Kinnock try to build a coalition with the Liberal Democrats, who have demanded a change in the electoral system as a condition. Or he might not, and the government would limp along until he lost a vote of confidence or the Prime Minister called another election later in the year, something that last happened in 1974.
By the middle of next week, after his Chancellor of the Exchequer, Norman Lamont, has outlined Government spending and tax plans for the coming year on Tuesday, Mr. Major is expected to make his choice of polling day official.
"The Conservatives had originally planned to wait a few days later to announce the election date, which would have given them time to conduct private polls on reactions to their budget plans," Mr. Kinnock said. "They forgot St. Patrick's Day in Northern Ireland."
Conservatives say they've been well aware of the rule that the campaign has to last a minimum of 17 working days, and of the coming holidays. But the Prime Minister would hardly have time to wait for the results of a poll on his budget proposals, widely expected to contain spending plans and perhaps a one- or two-percent reduction in income tax rates to stimulate a recovery from the British recession, if it's to be April 9.
May 7 would be even better for Labor, Mr. Kinnock said, because the party is already geared up to do battle in the local elections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR PARTY (65%); THE CONSERVATIVES (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR PARTY (65%); THE CONSERVATIVES (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); BRITISH MONARCHS (75%); EASTER SEASON (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN); KINNOCK, NEIL (MP) ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



195 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Americans Fear Chips Are Dumped

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 5

 BODY:
American semiconductor executives are beginning to express concern that their Japanese competitors might be selling computer chips below production cost, a practice that would violate the semiconductor trade agreement between the nations.
The reappearance of such charges, which still lack substantial proof and are denied by Japanese executives, could further stir up tense relations over trade in electronics. 
 The Semiconductor Industry Association, an American lobbying group, which meets in Washington next week for a regular board meeting, will also hold talks with Government officials. Both access to the Japanese market and chip pricing are expected to be topics of discussion, said William Pat Weber, executive vice president in charge of semiconductors for Texas Instruments Inc.
 
Anger Is Increasing
 American semiconductor executives are already growing increasingly angry that their companies have not seen much increased market share in Japan, one of the key provisions of the trade agreement. If the Japanese are also selling below manufacturing cost outside their own country, a practice known as dumping, they would be in danger of violating both important parts of the agreement.
"If they violate one, there will be serious consequences," said Joseph Parkinson, chairman and chief executive of Micron Technology, a memory chip maker in Boise, Idaho. "If they violate both, all hell is going to break loose."
Bob Brown, senior vice president and group executive for Toshiba America Electronic Components, a subsidiary of one of Japan's largest chip makers, called the dumping charges a joke.
"Our customers tell us that U.S., Korean and European suppliers are quoting more aggressive prices than we are," he said. "I also believe the Japanese companies have taken the semiconductor agreement seriously and will abide by it."
 
Japanese Prices Higher
 An executive with a non-Japanese memory chip manufacturer, who asked not to be identified, agreed that the Japanese tended to have higher prices than others in dynamic random access memories, or D-RAM's. "They lost market share because they have maintained prices," he said.
Japanese companies were accused of dumping in the mid-1980's, when both American and Japanese companies suffered huge losses in the memory chip business. At that time, American companies dropped out of the business of producing D-RAM's, the main type of chip used to store information in computers.
The semiconductor agreement, first signed in 1986, set up a system of floor prices on Japanese chips to prevent dumping and also called for American and other non-Japanese chip companies to gain at least 20 percent of the Japanese semiconductor market.
Most executives say that since then, dumping has not been an issue. When the agreement was renewed last year, the floor prices were abolished. The new agreement provides a means for the United States Government to investigate dumping charges quickly if an American company files a complaint. So far, no complaints have been filed.
 
No Rise in Market Share
 Most American executives say their main concern now is with access to Japan's market. As of the third quarter of 1991, the latest period for which figures are available, American and other non-Japanese semiconductor companies held 14.3 percent of Japan's chip market, and the figure has not been increasing rapidly.
That makes it a virtual certainty that the target of a 20 percent share will not be met by the deadline of the end of the year. American semiconductor executives are beginning to discuss ways of increasing the pressure on Japan, such as pushing the United States Government to impose sanctions on Japanese companies.
Japanese companies have said in general that an economic downturn in Japan has made it harder for them to take on new, foreign suppliers.
If dumping becomes an issue again after several years in the background it would further increase the pressure for strong retaliation against Japanese companies.
 
Oversupply in Chips
 Fears of dumping are being spurred in part because prices seem to be suddenly dropping rapidly. Another big factor is that there is a slump in the Japanese electronics industry. Many Japanese companies invested heavily a few years ago in huge factories to produce chips, particularly D-RAM's. Now, however, there is an oversupply and, it is believed, some companies are losing money on those chips.
"If they're losing money in D-RAM's, they're dumping, and that's illegal," said Mr. Parkinson of Micron, who is also this year's chairman of the Semiconductor Industry Association.
Andrew Procassini, president of the Semiconductor Industry Association, said that in the last two weeks he had received calls from several chief executives of member companies concerned that dumping might be taking place. He said some of the comments related to chips other than D-RAM's, although he would not say which chips or which companies he had heard from.
Mr. Weber of Texas Instruments said, "I do not today have evidence of dumping." However, he added: "We have concerns about the supply demand imbalance in Japan. We are seeing over the last several months very sharp price declines."
Executives of some companies that make products other than D-RAM's, like Advanced Micro Devices and LSI Logic, said they were not aware of dumping in their product areas.
There is some belief that warnings about dumping are merely an attempt to scare Japanese companies into keeping prices high, which also makes its easier for American companies to compete. Mr. Parkinson, whose company is one of the few American ones left in the D-RAM business, concedes that to some extent he is trying to send a message to the Japanese.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MU (NASDAQ) (90%); TXN (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (90%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (90%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOISE, ID, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSN MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (90%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (84%); TOSHIBA AMERICA ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS INC (54%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (83%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSN SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (83%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); IDAHO, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SEMICONDUCTORS; DUMPING (TRADE TERM) SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (92%); ELECTRONICS (91%); COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); MEMORY CHIPS (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); LOBBYING (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW ROBERT L PARKINSON JR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



196 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Will Expand Aid to Vietnam In Return for Help on the Missing

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, March 5

 BODY:
The United States pledged today to expand its humanitarian aid to Vietnam in exchange for additional cooperation from Hanoi in resolving the fate of Americans missing from the Vietnam War.
At the same time, the United States said it was still not prepared to lift a 17-year-old trade embargo that has crippled the Vietnamese economy and angered American investors wanting to do business there. 
 The aid package was announced in Hanoi by Assistant Secretary of State Richard H. Solomon, the highest-ranking American diplomat to visit Vietnam in six years. Other diplomats said the aid package would provide Vietnam with at least $3 million a year in American assistance.
Mr. Solomon's trip to Vietnam came amid speculation, both in Washington and Hanoi, that the Bush Administration would restore diplomatic relations with Vietnam shortly after the Presidential election.
 
Cambodia Elections Cited
 According to a dispatch from Reuters in Hanoi, Mr. Solomon ended that speculation, saying at a news conference today that the Administration did not envision full diplomatic relations with Vietnam until the spring of 1993, when free elections are expected in neighboring Cambodia.
The United States is trying to keep Vietnam from meddling in the elections or in other elements of the United Nations-brokered peace process in Cambodia.
Mr. Solomon's Vietnamese counterpart in this week's talks, Deputy Foreign Minister Le Mai, was quoted as saying at the same Hanoi news conference that while the talks had been constructive, the trade embargo was a "hostile policy" against Vietnam. "We think the trade embargo is an abnormal thing in relations between nations," he said.
Diplomats said that under today's agreement, American aid would be channeled to educational and medical programs in Vietnam.
In return, they said, the Vietnamese Government has agreed to allow American investigators to travel on short notice to areas of Vietnam where there are reported sightings of missing Americans. Hanoi said today that it would also allow Defense Department investigators greater access to Vietnamese military archives, long a sticking point between the two nations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (98%); CAMBODIA (93%); VIETNAM (92%); THAILAND (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (98%); CAMBODIA (93%); VIETNAM (92%); THAILAND (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; VIETNAM WAR; MISSING IN ACTION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); TRENDS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD H SOLOMON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



197 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
An unusually large number of Americans were buying again in February, a sales month that is normally sparse, retail sales figures indicated. Sales were strong not only at Wal-Mart but at stores with more checkered records, like J. C. Penney. [Page D1.]
A program of rapid approval for biotech products was announced by the head of the F.D.A. [D2.]
Initial claims for unemployment benefits fell by 21,000, the Government said. [D12.]
Personal computer users scurried to try to escape a computer virus timed to erase data and programs today. [A14.]
The Government is hiring more than 100 Russian scientists to help America harness the energy of nuclear fusion. [A1.]
New Jersey told auto insurers they would have nearly two years to phase in new regulations, but the changes may never go into effect. [B1.]
 
Companies
The $1.3 billion settlement with Milken and his former Drexel colleagues was rejected by the F.D.I.C. board. [D1.]
Westinghouse won a contract to build a Philippine nuclear plant in 1974 by paying a Marcos associate more than $17 million to be a "special sales representative," documents indicate. [D3.]
Macy's said it would shutter 5 of its 24 I. Magnin outlets and 52 other specialty stores by June. [D4.]
The Gap reported sharply higher sales, but its stock fell after it said its growth would moderate in 1992. [D4.]
The S.E.C. told Exxon it must allow shareholders to vote on a proposal to set up a special panel representing big shareholders to oversee the board. [D6.]
Three years after Northwest Airlines went private, the company that helped pioneer passenger air service must either expand sharply or fade into an also-ran. [D1.]
Airlines are offering discount fares for spring and summer because despite an improvement in transatlantic traffic, they are faced with lagging advance bookings. [D16.]
S.A.S. said it would pull out of a venture to own Inter-Continental hotels with Seibu Saison. [D3.]
 
International
Shifting its policy toward the former Soviet republics, the U.S. reached tentative agreement to loosen international controls on exports of advanced telecommunications equipment. [D1.]
American semiconductor executives are beginning to express concern that their Japanese competitors might be selling computer chips below production cost. [D3.]
 
Markets
The American Stock Exchange got S.E.C. permission to list smaller, younger and more speculative companies that now trade over the counter. [D1.]
Stocks closed sharply lower in heavy but cautious trading. The Dow dropped 27.06, 3,241.50. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury securities continued to slide and interest rates moved higher in active trading. [D12.]
Confusion in the coffee market sent futures prices down. [D13.] The dollar gained. [D13.]
 
Today's Columns
John B. Neff, who runs the Windsor Fund, is not shy about offering opinions. His latest: Chrysler should quickly name a successor to Iacocca. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
Is a "new world order" on its way after a painful transition period? Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
The language of the streets is becoming the language of Madison Avenue, as advertising slogans veer toward the vernacular. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (53%); IHG (NYSE) (52%); IHG (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (56%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (53%); INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC (52%); INTER-CONTINENTAL HOTELS CORP (52%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); NEW JERSEY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (88%); AIRLINES (86%); SALES FORCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); FUTURES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); COFFEE & TEA (73%); CONTRACT AWARDS (71%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); COMPUTER CHIPS (70%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); INSURANCE (69%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (69%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%); POWER PLANTS (69%); EXPORT CONTROLS (68%); COFFEE MARKETS (67%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); US DOLLAR (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); COFFEE (60%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



198 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Prague Journal;
Hot to Invest? Trust a Man With a Harvard Past?

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PRAGUE, March 1

 BODY:
What better way to make a fortune in Prague these days than to let an investment fund headed by a young Harvard graduate do it for you? So over the last few months, about half a million Czechs and Slovaks, perhaps thinking they were putting their money in the hands of a company backed by the American university, did just that.
The Harvard Capital and Consulting Company, brainchild of a 28-year-old Czech-American, Viktor Kozeny, cornered 20 percent of the market for investment coupons that are at the heart of Czechoslovakia's campaign to privatize its state industries. 
 "Our main contribution was to awaken interest in people," Mr. Kozeny said in an interview. What had been a lackluster Government campaign, he said, became a mad rush to capitalism.
Mr. Kozeny's company, of course, has nothing to do with Harvard University. Mr. Kozeny, who received a bachelor's degree in economics there in 1989, then worked briefly at the London investment house of James Fleming, hired hundreds of salesmen and saturated Czechoslovak television with ads that typically showed an attractive young woman who, when asked what fund she would invest in, replied, "Why, the one with the American name."
The tale of Mr. Kozeny's success is the story of how get-rich-quick projects, the quick-sell and promises of easy wealth have filtered into the legal vacuum created by Czechoslovakia's post-Communist economic transformation.
 
Success and Suspicion
 "What he's doing is not illegal, though he's acting in a total regulatory vacuum," said Daniel J. Arbess, a lawyer with the New York firm of White & Case who advises the Czechoslovak Government.
At points of sale for the coupon books, Mr. Kozeny posted his salesmen. Their selling point: Harvard Capital offered to pay 10 times the purchase price of 3,000 crowns, about $30, to any investor who after a year and a day decided to get out and turn over his investment coupons to the fund.
But success bred suspicion. The Prague public prosecutor, acting on a complaint from the Czech Ministry of Privatization, began investigating Mr. Kozeny's business practices, and the Association of Investment Companies and Funds suspended him for two days, then reinstated him.
Newspaper reports, feeding on widespread mistrust, suggested that his salesmen had to be former Communist secret policemen, while others accused him of misrepresentation, asserting that he misused Harvard's name to suggest a link with the university and its business school.
"Total rubbish," Mr. Kozeny said.
In an interview, the businessman, whose parents emigrated in his youth to Germany and then to the United States, said he did not intend to usurp Harvard's name.
 
No Crimson Connection
 "The key to our success is that there was no one factor," he said. "It combined hard work and a good marketing strategy. We offered solid support through client service. We did a few things right."
Mr. Kozeny said his company had "no real trouble" with Harvard, and made sure "it doesn't give the impression there is a connection." But Harvard's spokesman, Peter Costa, said the university was still examining what steps could be taken against Mr. Kozeny's company.
"Our legal people are looking into it," Mr. Costa said by telephone from Cambridge, Mass. "We don't want to be associated with them. We take no responsibility. They are not the Harvard Management Company, handling our portfolio."
Defending his business practices, Mr. Kozeny asserted that repayment of 10 times the original cash investment was easy to guarantee, given the low value of the assets.
 
Issuing Coupon Books
 "These shares are like initial public offerings, but your participation comes through an administrative fee, not a capital investment," he said. "The issues are so underpaid that having calculated the actual value to be much, much higher, we were able to say, 'Look, if you don't want to remain an investor, then after a year and a day you can come to us, and we'll pay you back 10 times what you originally paid in.' "
Mr. Kozeny said he estimates that about 20 percent of coupon holders will redeem them, and that outside bank credit lines secure the amounts needed.
To privatize its state industries, Czechoslovakia came up with the idea of issuing the coupons books for about $30, enough to cover administrative costs. In a second stage of the program, the coupons can be exchanged for shares in state companies. Czechs and Slovaks can pick their own companies, or entrust the coupons to mutual funds, 400 of which sprang up in recent months, to do it for them.
Critics of the fund plans point out that in the absence of a regulatory framework, anyone can issue a guarantee on financial transactions, regardless of their ability to honor the pledge. In Mr. Kozeny's case, for instance, the liability to the 500,000 investors he claims as clients would amount to more than 5 billion crowns, about $165 million, while the fund's capital totals only 1 million crowns.
A vision that frightens some people here is of unscrupulous fund managers pressed to meet their commitments and in the absence of regulatory restraints stripping the funds and the companies they control of assets to do so. Writing in The Prague Post, an English-language weekly, a commentator remarked recently, "This is the Robert Maxwell story, ironically restaged in the country of his birth."
Mr. Kozeny bristles at the suggestion. "We figured very much on the conservative side," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Viktor Kozeny, a Czech-American who founded the Harvard Capital and Consulting Company, an investment fund in Czechoslovakia, at office in Prague as customers bought coupons to the fund.(Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CZECH REPUBLIC (95%); SLOVAKIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); GERMANY (77%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD CAPITAL & CONSULTING WHITE & CASE LLP (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD CAPITAL & CONSULTING HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECHOSLOVAKIA UNITED STATES (95%); CZECH REPUBLIC (95%); SLOVAKIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); GERMANY (77%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INVESTMENTS BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN; KOZENY, VIKTOR JAMES B FLEMING (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



199 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: Decision Time for Northwest Air

BYLINE: By ERIC N. BERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ST. PAUL

 BODY:
Three years after Northwest Airlines went private in a $4.6 billion leveraged buyout, the company that helped pioneer passenger air service must either sharply expand or fade into an also-ran.
The situation is not do-or-die. Although voices ranging from politicians in Northwest's home state of Minnesota to Barron's, the weekly newspaper for investors, have predicted that continuing losses and heavy debts will lead to the airline's demise, Northwest still has enough financing options to keep flying for years.
But staying in business is one thing, prospering another. While it is highly unlikely that Northwest will soon join Eastern, Midway, T.W.A., America West, Pan Am and Continental in bankruptcy proceedings or worse, it is uncertain whether Northwest can compete against aviation's Big Three: United, American and Delta Air Lines. 
 Instead of trying to match the larger airlines acquisition-for-acquisition, Northwest wants to extend its reach through more alliances with foreign airlines. The airline sets out on its competitive mission with several advantages.
Under Alfred A. Checchi and Gary L. Wilson, the former Marriott Corporation executives who led the Northwest buyout and serve as co-chairmen, Northwest's labor relations, punctuality and overall level of passenger service have improved markedly.
Northwest's cash flow from operations remains positive; the company has met all its debt obligations, and its Pacific route system remains the envy of the industry. With 324 landing slots at Narita Airport in Tokyo, Northwest has more flights going there than any other carrier except Japan Airlines.
But Northwest's vast route system in the Pacific is linked to a relatively modest network in this country and even thinner coverage in Europe. To thrive over the long haul, Northwest, the nation's fourth-largest airline, must become better balanced -- a global carrier that like the Big Three covers every major region of the United States, with comprehensive international service. That will not be easy, since competitors are almost sure to respond to any Northwest initiatives.
The expansion plans of United, American and Delta are already so ambitious that analysts say Northwest has at most three years to either match their scope or fall behind forever.
Northwest "badly needs critical mass to compete with the big guys," said Ernest Arvai, a leading industry consultant.
Northwest executives do not disagree. Mr. Checchi and Mr. Wilson, who together control some 45 percent of Northwest's stock, have been saying for some time that Northwest must broaden its reach to assure its long-term success. "Our presumption," the 42-year-old Mr. Checchi said in a recent interview at Northwest's headquarters here, "is that almost by definition you would have to be a global carrier in the end."
But Mr. Checchi and Mr. Wilson have sent Northwest down a very different path from the Big Three's. Rather than trying to turn Northwest into a worldwide carrier itself, they seek partnerships with foreign airlines. They argue that such alliances will enable Northwest to bulk up a lot more quickly than if Northwest acquired one route here, another there, as the Big Three appear to be doing.
The executives say that an alliance with KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, the airline that helped finance the Northwest buyout in exchange for a 20 percent stake, demonstrates the advantages of their approach. KLM instantly gave Northwest a European route system. Passengers flying on Northwest to its hubs in Minneapolis and Detroit can then take KLM to Amsterdam and from there on to points throughout Europe. A Northwest booking agent can make the entire reservation, with Northwest receiving revenue every time it books a seat on a KLM flight.
 
Likes Business Combinations
 "We just don't think that going it alone is the way to go," Mr. Checchi said. "You can achieve critical mass and route authorities by business combinations that you simply cannot achieve through internal growth."
Mr. Checchi said that the KLM alliance would be the first of several. The recent announcement that KLM and British Air had ended merger talks does not preclude a future agreement. Given that Northwest lacks New York-to-London service and Federal law bans foreign carriers offering domestic routes, a partnership would make sense.
Even if it can forge more alliances with foreign carriers, Northwest must still beef up its domestic system, which is strong in the central part of the country but weak in the Northeast, Southeast and Southwest. One frequently mentioned solution is a merger with Continental Airlines. Mr. Checchi says the two airlines have had only preliminary talks.
Not even a merger, however, will insure Northwest's long-term success. The airline business has never been more competitive. Airlines are increasingly willing to offer quiet, behind-the-scenes discounts to companies sending them heavy volume. And while the recession has led airlines like United and American to scale back purchases of aircraft, these moves represent merely a lull in purchases, not permanent retrenchment.
So in addition to expanding its route system, Northwest will have to find other advantages. The chosen path is to improve customer service to give Northwest the same stellar reputation as, say, Japan Airlines. All told, Northwest will spend more than $250 million over the next two to three years on everything from redecorating the interiors of its planes to improving meals to installing computerized baggage-tagging systems.
Like its larger rivals, Northwest, founded 66 years ago, has survived a barrage of events largely beyond its control. The terrorism fears and the doubling of fuel prices during the Persian Gulf war and a weak economy since then have not had the same devastating effects on Northwest as on T.W.A. and Midway Airlines.
But like the Big Three, Northwest has suffered deep losses. After earning $67 million in 1989, Northwest lost $302 million in 1990 and $317 million in 1991.
The losses are significant for Northwest because they have badly eroded the $700 million investment made by Northwest's owners -- Mr. Checchi and his group; Elders P.L.C. of Australia; KLM; Bankers Trust, and Blum & Associates, a San Francisco-based merchant bank. Some airline experts conclude that Mr. Checchi and Mr. Wilson have no choice but to raise more capital.
"Bottom line: Northwest has to do a sizable stock offering in two years at the latest to make this airline grow and prosper," said Scott Hamilton, who publishes a Dallas-based newsletter, Commercial Aviation Report. But Northwest executives have shown no desire to take the company public again soon.
The losses have led other analysts to conclude the Northwest buyout was a bad idea from the outset. Their misgivings stem in part from the backgrounds of Mr. Checchi and Mr. Wilson. Although they are respected managers, most of their experience has been in planning, finance and mergers, not running airlines.
Mr. Checci had been the treasurer at Marriott and a principal in the Bass family's investment company. Mr. Wilson oversaw financial management and strategic planning at Marriott and was chief financial officer at the Walt Disney Company.
 
Leveraged Buyout Folly?
 Critics still list the Northwest deal as an example of an era's folly. "When they pioneered LBO's in the late 1970's, the first business they thought of leveraging was certainly not airlines," said James Grant, editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer. "The airline business is everything that the ideal LBO candidate is not: cyclical, capital intensive, unionized, and at the mercy of a single commodity -- jet fuel prices."
Analysts were not comforted when Northwest asked the Minnesota state government late in 1991 to lend it $350 million -- part of a total of roughly $750 million that Northwest will be receiving from the state to help pay for new aircraft maintenance and repair buildings, among other things.
Mr. Checchi argues that Northwest is in far better shape than its numbers suggest. Northwest's competitors, he said, maintain a major portion of their debt off their balance sheets and out of the public view, in the form of aircraft lease obligations. Northwest's assets, particularly the carrier's Pacific route system, are listed on the company's financial statements at a fraction of their market value, he added.
Mr. Checchi bristles at critics who say that Northwest was too highly leveraged and that the buyout group should have put more money up front. If that were true, he said, banks would not be so willing now to extend $600 million in additional loans to Northwest.
In short, Mr. Checchi feels that Northwest is doing no worse than its rivals. "American, Delta and United are unprofitable; six airlines went bankrupt, and USAir has its own problems," he said. "Basically, we have done the right things."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alfred A. Checchi, co-chairman of Northwest Airlines, says Northwest must broaden its reach through alliances with foreign airlines to assure its long-term success. He is shown during a recent meeting with Northwest executives at the company's headquarters in St. Paul. (Steve Woit for The New York Times)
 
Graph: 'A Struggling Airline" shows net income and revenues of Northwest Airlines, 1988-91 (Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); MAR (NYSE) (68%); HST (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (68%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (74%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (68%); HOST HOTELS & RESORTS INC (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWEST AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (74%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FINANCES; FORECASTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (92%); AIR SERVICE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); GOING PRIVATE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); CASH FLOW (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: CHECCHI, ALFRED A; WILSON, GARY L; BERG, ERIC N GARY L WILSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992



200 of 1088 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Media;
Tsongas to 'Fight Back' With TV Ads

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5

 BODY:
Former Senator Paul E. Tsongas likes to say that he is "one Greek who fights back." This weekend he is hoping to prove it with an opening volley in what promises to be a spirited advertising war in the Southern states whose voters go to the polls on Tuesday.
The decision to mount a counteroffensive comes just a few days after Mr. Tsongas issued a vigorous plea -- and one that some of his rivals complained was sanctimonious -- to avoid attacking one another by name. It was prompted, aides said, by Gov. Bill Clinton's insistent, and possibly effective, assaults. 
 For several days Mr. Tsongas has been absorbing withering attacks by the Arkansas Governor, who portrays the former Senator from Massachnusetts as a friend of the wealthy and an enemy of the middle class. Campaigning in Florida, a state where Social Security and Medicare are considered sacrosanct, Mr. Clinton has repeatedly attacked Mr. Tsongas for a proposal to curb the growth of some "entitlement" programs like Social Security.
Bracing for further attacks and acknowledging that the ones they have sustained so far have taken a toll, the Tsongas campaign has prepared a new television advertisement questioning Mr. Clinton's credibility.
 
A Milder Alternative
 The ad, which is supposed to be broadcast in Florida on Friday, refers to Mr. Clinton and says that some people will "say anything" to get elected. It accuses the Arkansan of knowingly distorting Mr. Tsongas's views to win the election, and it asks voters to send a message by rejecting negative campaigning.
Although the advertisement that Mr. Tsongas has decided to use in Florida does name Mr. Clinton, it is far milder than several alternatives that were also filmed, and could still be used at a later date. Nevertheless, aides to Mr. Tsongas went out of their way to portray the decision to broadcast the advertisement as one that the candidate had made only with reluctance.
Political analysts said today that, heartfelt or even feigned, Mr. Tsongas's reluctance to broadcast negative ads would serve him well politically.
"Tsongas is doing the right thing," said Raymond Strother, a Democratic political consultant, "saying, 'I don't want to do this, I don't want to do this, take this.' " In contrast, he said, Mr. Clinton's taunts "make him look like a bully."
 
The Importance of TV
 As the campaign hurtles toward "Super Tuesday," when 11 states -- including seven Southern or border states -- will hold Democratic primaries or caucuses, the candidates are increasingly relying on television to introduce themselves and their opponents to the voters. In his television ads Mr. Clinton is unabashedly trying to fashion the contest into a choice between two conflicting economic visions -- his and Mr. Tsongas's -- and implicitly, into a conflict between "us" and "them."
In an ad now on the air in Florida, Mr. Clinton describes Mr. Tsongas's economic plan as "another capital gains tax cut for the rich, and a 50 cent hike in the gas tax over 10 years for the rest of us."
Because the campaign is moving so fast and voters have such a short time to get to know the candidates, Mr. Tsongas's advisers are concerned that Mr. Clinton and other opponents are succeeding in defining their candidate in distinctly unflattering terms. Mr. Tsongas himself said recently that he regretted not having answered criticisms of his environmental record that appeared on Colorado television in an advertisement for Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, who withdrew from the race today.
Mr. Tsongas came in third in the Colorado primary, one percentage point behind Mr. Clinton and three behind former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California, after several polls had shown him in the lead.
"There's no question some of it's sticking," Dennis Kanin, Mr. Tsongas's campaign manager, said of the televised attacks.
In a move that seems part realism and part an effort to lower expectations for himself, Mr. Tsongas has effectively ceded many of the Southern states that will hold their primaries on Tuesday to Mr. Clinton, the regional favorite. He is focusing his advertising campaign on Florida, which, with its large population of displaced Northerners, is considered his best chance for a victory in the region. At the least, Mr. Tsongas is hoping to do well enough in the state to, in the words of one of his aides, "not get mauled."
In the crucial weekend leading up to Super Tuesday and the Florida primary, Tsongas aides say their goal is to avoid answering Mr. Clinton's criticisms point by point. Rather, they said, they hope shift the focus of the debate to put Mr. Clinton on the defensive.
Mr. Clinton's advisers said they had no plans to go on the air with new advertising, negative or positive, over the weekend. "We have avoided sneak attacks," Mr. Clinton's media adviser, Frank Greer, said with a touch of piety."We've been really up front." But Mr. Greer said the campaign would respond with new advertising "depending on what other candidates do."
One of the options that the Clinton campaign has discussed is broadcasting an advertisement in Florida that deals solely with Mr. Tsongas's position on Social Security. The former Senator has said he would consider reducing the cost-of-living increase for Social Security recipients.
Mr. Clinton's advisers insist that their ads are not attacks at all. Rather, they say Mr. Tsongas is unwilling to confront voters with the reality of his proposals.
"He wants to tell everybody he's got a plan," James Carville, a Clinton aide, said of Mr. Tsongas. "He just doesn't want them to know what's in it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); 

PERSON: TSONGAS, PAUL E; KOLBERT, ELIZABETH BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992

 
