

601 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 5962 words

HEADLINE: TRILLION-DOLLAR DIGITS: A special report.;
Computers and 2000: Race for Security

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER and ANDREW POLLACK 

 BODY:
In a windowless room two stories below ground level, Lyudmila Zavlyanova sits in what could be a scene from the cold war. People are hunched in front of computers in cramped cubicles, speaking to each other in hushed tones in Russian.
But they are in New Jersey and this is an entirely different kind of global struggle: the code war. 
 Mrs. Zavlyanova and about 40 other immigrants from the former Soviet Union are in the sub-basement of the Newark headquarters of the Public Service Electric and Gas Company, New Jersey's largest utility. They are here not because they understand Russian but rather Cobol, a computer language that runs many of the nation's mainframe computers but is so old that relatively few American programmers know it.
Mrs. Zavlyanova, a 27-year-old from Queens, is one of tens of thousands of programmers throughout the world racing to head off the havoc that could ensue because many of the computers that underpin today's wired society do not understand that a year can begin with a number other than 19.
She and her colleagues have spent the better part of this year painstakingly sifting through a program consisting of seven million lines of code that, to the uninitiated, resembles gibberish.
And that is just to fix one program. In all, Public Service has 728 programs with a total of 46 million lines written in 27 programming languages. How well they get fixed or replaced could determine whether the lights and heat stay on in New Jersey come Jan. 1, 2000.
That might seem far away. But the Y2K problem, as it is known in computer jargon, is already draining hundreds of billions of dollars from companies and governments struggling to tame what some call the millennium bug.
The direst predictions of what will happen -- financial chaos, societal strife, food shortages and persistent, widespread blackouts -- are highly improbable. But it is not hard to find reputable alarmists -- computer experts who say they will not fly or schedule surgery at the onset of the year 2000 or even an economist who predicts that the computer bug could set off a recession.
The first wave of disruptions has already hit, with 40 percent of the largest American and European companies experiencing at least minor breakdowns because some software has already had to deal with dates in 2000 and beyond. Many retailers have had difficulty processing credit cards that expired in 2000 or later, for example. At BankBoston, some A.T.M. cards were seized because cash machines thought the cards had expired in 1900.
Another spate of disruptions could begin on the first day of 1999 because a host of other computer programs, like those used to prepare budgets, schedule appointments and pay unemployment benefits, deal with dates up to one year in the future.
All the threat stems from the fact, by now well known, that computer programs frequently use two digits to represent years, like 98 for 1998. So when 1999 ends, computers might be baffled about what comes next or might think 00 means 1900 instead of 2000. Afflicted machines could crash or, just as dangerously, spew out erroneous data. With computers running everything from power grids to bank machines to air traffic control, the range of services that could be affected is vast.
The problem has proved more intractable and expensive to fix than most experts had expected. The Gartner Group, a consulting firm, estimates that the Y2K problem will cost the world $1 trillion to $2 trillion, as much as $300 for every man, woman and child on the planet.
"It's the biggest business problem in human history," said Capers Jones, a software expert and year 2000 alarmist.
Year 2000 activity swirls far beyond computer programmers like Mrs. Zavlyanova, sweeping up lawyers, insurance companies, government regulators and even many ordinary citizens.
Other electronic equipment besides computers may also be vulnerable. So engineers everywhere are clambering over pipes, behind walls and into closets in a giant scavenger hunt for computer chips that control factories, oil platforms, aircraft, traffic lights and building security systems. New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, for instance, is determining whether 16,000 medical devices -- electrocardiographs, infusion pumps, defibrillators and even beds -- will work correctly in the next century.
The Y2K problem is also becoming a cultural phenomenon, appearing in comic strips and Hollywood screenplays. For those prone to believe that the apocalypse is coming with the start of the new millennium, the millennium bug looks like the means to the end, a digital echo of Noah's flood.
For many more people the Y2K problem plays on a sense of unease that society is growing dependent on a lattice of technology that is now so far-reaching, interconnected and complex that no one completely understands it, not even the priesthood that writes its digital code.
Many moves toward economic efficiency -- automation, just-in-time delivery of parts to factories, globalization -- have been aided by computers. Yet those same practices now make the economy more vulnerable to computer malfunctions.
Several potential Y2K problems have been discovered during simulations. When the Chrysler Corporation set the clocks on the electronic equipment at one of its factories ahead to 2000, for example, the security system locked all the doors. Such problems can be readily fixed, one at a time.
The fear, though, is that the early days of 2000 could bring a huge flood of them. Many experts say there is simply too much software left to fix and too many microchips to check before the immovable deadline. Still, they say, there is time to reduce the impact by fixing what is possible and making contingency plans for failures that cannot be prevented. The school board in Albuquerque, N.M., recently voted to keep the city's public schools closed the first week in January 2000 to make sure that the district had time to repair unexpected breakdowns.
Experts say caution is in order, but not panic.
"The level of disaster is still fundamentally our choice," Howard Rubin, an information technology consultant, said.
 
Town Criers
Escapist Movement Expects the Worst
The year 2000 problem raises vexing questions for consumers. Most home appliances and cars should work fine, manufacturers say, though many people will have to test and fix personal computers.
But a few people have gone even further. Nervous residents in more than 200 American cities have formed community preparedness groups, advising neighbors and urging local officials to make contingency plans, like setting up emergency food banks, shelters and neighborhood-based power generation. Many groups passed out leaflets at shopping centers before Christmas with Y2K-inspired shopping suggestions, like first aid kits, firewood and batteries.
"The best chance I would have would be to be in a community that is well prepared," said Jay Golter, 42, a financial analyst at a Federal agency who went to a P.T.A. meeting at his son's school in Springfield, Va., last January and invited the other parents to a strategy session on the Y2K problem. When the day came, no one showed up. But gradually concern took root, and the Northern Virginia Year 2000 Community Action Group now boasts more than 200 members.
In Boulder, Colo., where people worried about the year 2000 problem are organizing neighborhood by neighborhood, some 70 residents of the 80304 zip code gathered in a school recently to listen to Kathy Garcia, a specialist in group dynamics.
"We are asking people to prepare for four months, enough to get you through the winter," Ms. Garcia said, detailing how her family spent $600 setting aside a supply of rice, beans and other staples. The group then discussed plans to ask grocers to stock foods that would be needed in a crisis. They fretted about how to ask neighbors, without seeming intrusive, about special medical needs, so hospitals could be asked to prepare. Then they broke into pairs to practice approaching strangers to discuss the Y2K problem.
Efforts are under way to foster more cooperation nationally among the community groups, which are already loosely linked through the Cassandra Project, a group in Louisville, Colo., that operates a widely used Web site dedicated to Y2K concerns.
Some alarmists scoff at the notion that such organizing will stave off the societal breakdown they see coming from large-scale computer failures. So in a throwback to the bomb shelter mania of decades past, they are moving to rural areas, drilling wells, setting up generators and even buying guns to fend off the hordes they fear will come from the broken cities in search of food.
Entrepreneurs are catering to the survivalists, selling everything from seeds to wooden "survival domes," or even trying to develop entire communities. God's Wilderness, in Finland, Minn., bills itself as a relocation site for Christians, offering land complete with cabin, well, pump, stove, greenhouse, shed and outhouse. David and Johanna Hecker, who own the site, say on their Web page that they knew nothing about Y2K worries until they tried to sell some land and got inquiries from people looking for a place to escape.
But many experts say that preparations like stockpiling food and withdrawing savings are unnecessary and will only invite burglars and rats. In addition, business leaders and public officials have already begun to worry that such hoarding could produce the very chaos that some doomsayers had predicted from computer breakdowns.
The American Red Cross, for instance, recently suggested that people fill the gas tank of their cars just before Jan. 1, 2000. But the gasoline distribution network may not be able to handle such demand, as was proved by the 1979 oil crisis when millions of Americans waited in lines, drove up prices and in some cases got into fights in the mistaken belief that oil imports were drying up.
Bankers are especially worried about possible major withdrawals.
The Federal Reserve has already said it will set aside an extra $50 billion of currency reserves at the end of 1999.
"When we get down to 1999, the retail public is going to panic and want cash, and we better have it for them," said David Iacino, head of the year 2000 program at BankBoston.
 
Penny Wise
How a Money-Saver Became So Costly
The millennium bug is not really a bug at all, in the sense of a coding error. Using two digits to represent the year was considered a clever way in the 1950's and 1960's to save expensive computer memory.
Leon A. Kappelman, co-chairman of the year 2000 working group for the Society for Information Management, estimates that use of two-digit years in a program written in the 1960's would have saved more than $1 million per billion bytes of data stored over the following 30 years. Those savings would more than offset the cost of fixing the code now to handle the change to 2000.
But through force of habit, programmers continued to use two-digit years well into the 1990's, even as data storage costs dropped to one ten-thousandth of their 1960's level. Denver's $4.3 billion international airport, styled as the airport of the future when it opened only three years ago, is spending millions to assure that its safety and flight information systems are free of Y2K bugs.
From the start, some programmers foresaw problems in 2000, but the danger seemed theoretical. Computer technology was changing so rapidly it was assumed that programs with two-digit years would be retired long before 2000. Instead, it was the programmers, not the programs, who retired first.
Even when companies realized the problem, they procrastinated about fixing it. Data processing managers, constantly swamped by demands for new programs, did not dare propose devoting resources to a problem that would not hit for many years. Some assumed that a quick fix would be invented as the deadline neared. The information processing department at the Bank of America awarded a plaque in the late 1980's to the first manager with a program that encountered a year 2000 problem. But the bank did not start fixing its code until 1996.
Now, even those who saw the trouble coming are finding out how deep-rooted two-digit coding is. Ronald Asala, director of technology services at Zurich American Insurance Group in Schaumburg, Ill., remembers ordering programmers who were writing claims-processing software in 1986 and 1987 to use four-digit years.
"I would have sworn on a stack of Bibles that the system was Y2K-compliant," Mr. Asala said. But a recent test found 18 two-digit functions, 2 of which would have stopped the program cold.
 
The Code War
A Battle Fought Line by Line
If writing a new program is software's equivalent of carpentry, Y2K work is more like asbestos removal. It is a job as tedious as replacing all the light bulbs in Las Vegas but not as easy, because much of the software was written years ago by programmers who have quit or retired.
The repair project undertaken by Public Service Electric and Gas is a case in point.
Mrs. Zavlyanova works for Keane Inc., a contractor for the utility. Because programmers are in short supply, Keane offered $1,000 bonuses to employees who recruited their friends, and word quickly spread through the Soviet immigrant community.
These programmers are fixing the software that keeps track of bills and other data related to the utility's two million electricity customers. An error in any one of the seven million lines of this program could cause problems in billing and service.
Mrs. Zavlyanova and her colleagues are the final backstop in a search through every line of code for places that contain two-digit years. Sometimes such work is straightforward because programmers refer to dates using abbreviations like YR or DT. But in other cases the designations are quirkier and not obvious, like the names of movie characters or the programmer's acquaintances.
One day this summer, Mrs. Zavlyanova was inspecting a tiny 523-line segment. A special computer program had already quickly scanned all 523 lines, picking out 18 with numbers that could potentially be dates.
One of those lines contained the name of a 25-digit serial number. Suspicious, Mrs. Zavlyanova zeroed in on this segment and there it was: a millennium bug! Six of the digits in the serial number referred to a date: two for the month, two for the day and only two for the year.
Now the question was how to repair it. The utility wanted to expand the serial number to 27 digits, adding 2 digits to represent the year. But such an expansion was not as easy as it sounded because it would throw off the position of the other numbers. A number that was in position 15, which might have stood for, say, a customer's geographic location, would move to position 17, which the program might believe refers to the meter reader's route number. So expanding the serial number could require changes to many other lines in the program.
Before she undertook this task, however, Mrs. Zavlyanova checked and found that another programmer who had encountered the serial number in another part of the program had already expanded it. But that programmer apparently made an error, so more work would be needed.
"Y2K work isn't as easy as a lot of people think," said Mrs. Zavlyanova, who has on her desk a certificate praising her as a top performer. "There are all kinds of complications that come up."
PSE&G is not fixing all its software. About 125 are being replaced by new software that is free of Y2K problems. One program is being scrapped because the company cannot find any programmers who know the language in which it was written. Another 25 percent to 30 percent of the programs are being retired because the company found that no one was using them anymore.
"There's stuff that would print out downstairs and it would go to someone and that person would be gone," said Vincent Scatuccio Jr., who is in charge of software repair.
One of the few silver linings of the Y2K problem, Mr. Scatuccio noted, is the chance to clear the cobwebs from a company's data processing operations.
To save time, PSE&G is not expanding years to four digits in most programs, but is instead using a technique called windowing. Years are left as two digits but the computer is instructed to interpret 00 to 49 as being 2000 to 2049, and 50 to 99 as 1950 to 1999. Of course, if the program is still in use in 2050, it will have to be fixed again.
As for crucial software that helps balance electricity supply and demand, the utility is saving millions of dollars by not fixing it at all, because it plans to buy new software eventually. Until then, it is simply setting the clock back so that the program will think it is 1972 instead of 2000; the dates in 1972 fall on the same days of the week as in 2000.
The bottom line, however, is this: Despite these shortcuts, despite budgeting $91.6 million for Y2K work and despite starting its cleanup more than two years ago -- earlier than most utilities -- PSE&G will not finish on time. So, like many companies, it is resorting to triage, fixing the most important programs first and worrying about minor ones later.
 
Double Checking
'Trust Nothing, Test Everything'
On a recent Sunday, when most of the executives and tellers of AmSouth Bank in Birmingham, Ala., were relaxing with their families, computer specialists from the bank gathered in a fraying former auditorium they called the "war room" and traveled through time.
They set the date on a multistate network of computers ahead to the year 2000 and put the powerful machines through their paces, crunching fake loan applications and money transfers. In another room, bank employees repeatedly inserted and withdrew colorful play money from automated teller machines, watching the balances on their receipts rise and fall.
The elaborate process was part of a test to make sure AmSouth bank's computers will work in 2000. Experts say that even after software is fixed, it should be tested because some dates might have been missed. In addition, the correction of one problem often introduces another. The Internal Revenue Service mistakenly sent default notices to 1,000 taxpayers because of an error made in fixing the millennium bug.
Year 2000 consultants say that testing could take up more than half of a Y2K budget. Yet many companies, pressed for time, are skimping on testing.
"You've got to take a trust nothing, test everything attitude," said Mr. Asala of Zurich American, chastened by his encounter with the faulty Zurich code he had assumed was clean.
That warning extends to software from outside vendors, who can never fully test their products for all the ways they are used by customers.
"We have found 10 major Y2K problems with applications vendors told us they had tested and found compliant," Mr. Asala said, adding that the Zurich's problem programs included software from giants like I.B.M. and Computer Associates, companies that Mr. Asala credits with doing a good job on Y2K problems.
Smart testing requires cooperation between business partners because computers routinely interact with other machines outside the company, but it is not always possible. Bell Atlantic, whose wires carry billions of dollars in financial transactions, said it had more banks wanting to test with it than it could accommodate.
There is a human toll too. Because computers are usually in use during the day, testing often must be done at odd hours, which is why the computer specialists at AmSouth Bank did their work on nights and over a weekend for five days in October, with workers subsisting on snacks and pizza.
Diane Lambert, a systems manager, said she considered herself lucky if she could say yes when her 14-year-old daughter called asking, "Mama, will you be home before midnight tonight?"
Jan. 1, 2000, was not the only date tested. One day the computers were made to believe it was Jan. 3, the first business day of 2000. The next day it was Feb. 29, a leap day. Then it was March 31, 2000, the day the books would close for the first quarter.
While programmers worked in the war room, technicians in Chicago were busy executing mock money transfers to AmSouth's big clients. Employees at AmSouth's phone service center in Pensacola, Fla., at a check processing office in Atlanta and at a branch in a Birmingham suburb were all participating.
The far-flung electronic menagerie was also linked to a computer center in North Bergen, N.J., that is usually rented to companies whose own computers are disabled by a natural disaster. Comdisco, the owner of this disaster recovery site, has found a sideline leasing such sites for Y2K testing.
AmSouth's test went well. The only glitch found was one that would have prevented AmSouth from signing up new bank-by-phone customers on Feb. 29, 2000. Sara Simon, the technician who had originally installed the program, identified the error within two hours. It was quickly corrected, setting off a round of cheers.
But no testing program can cover all the possibilities.
"That's why I call it the year 2000 lottery," said Donald Estes, a testing expert in Lexington, Mass. "Some will do a lot and still get hit. Some won't do enough and luck out."
 
The Hidden Problem
At the Mercy Of Microchips
If the year 2000 cleanup involved fixing only business software it would be hard enough. But the potential for Y2K problems also lurks in the tiny computers that have permeated all corners of modern life. The flow of chemicals in a refinery, the injection of fuel into automobile engines, even the flushing of some toilets is controlled electronically. Sometimes the controller is a single chip, like one in a factory that merely opens or closes a valve based on readings from a temperature sensor. In other cases, an entire computer with more complex software is used.
Experts say that only a few percent of such systems -- called embedded systems because the computer or chip is embedded in some other piece of equipment -- will have date problems. But with billions of such chips in use, even a few percent is enough to scare Y2K experts. British Petroleum's giant Grangemouth refinery complex identified 2,132 embedded systems and found that 15 would fail in a way that would shut down operations if they were not fixed, said Ian Jenson, the project manager.
The embedded chip dimension of the Y2K problem surprised many companies. The International Paper Company doubled its estimate of its year 2000 repair costs to $135 million, largely because it belatedly identified vulnerable electronic controls in its mills.
The investigations have turned up some good news. Despite popular fears about airplanes falling from the sky, for instance, the Boeing Company has concluded that there are only three embedded Y2K defects in its aircraft, all easily dealt with and related to navigation data.
But medical equipment remains a major area of concern. The Veterans Health Administration found a $150,000 machine used in radiation therapy for cancer that could theoretically calculate wrong dosages after 2000. The machine uses the date to calculate the age of the patient and the strength of the radiation, which decays over time. In the 1980's, several patients were killed because of software errors in a different radiation machine.
At New York Hospital on the East Side of Manhattan, Louis Wetstein, a 31-year-old biomedical engineer, is trying to determine the status of the hospital's 16,000 medical devices, about 2,500 of which contain microprocessors. Robots and electronic machines perform tests on vials of patients' blood without human intervention. Infusion pumps deliver medication with a precision beyond human capability. Even the beds contain microprocessors, which adjust the bed's position and weigh the patient.
To test an electrocardiograph machine, Mr. Wetstein and colleagues first hooked it up to another electronic device that simulates a heartbeat. Then they set the electrocardiograph's internal clock to 23:58 on 31-DEC-99 and waited two minutes.
The machine continued into 2000 without missing a beat, printing the squiggly lines of an electrocardiogram on a strip of paper and recording 00 as the year. A four-digit year would be ideal, but this was not bad.
Then the clock was set back again to just before midnight for a second test. But this time the machine was shut off. When it was turned back on two minutes later, the printout still read 23:59. The machine was stuck in the last century. The date on the printout made no sense at all -- 03-MAR-A6, with A6 being an error code.
Nevertheless, the machine was still able to record heart rhythms, because it did not need to know the date to do that.
Mr. Wetstein said he had found similar record-keeping problems with some defibrillators and ventilators, but had never found a problem that would cause the equipment to stop functioning.
"Medical equipment is not designed to stop working," Mr. Wetstein said. "It is designed to keep working. The failure is not to shut down."
Still, incorrect date-stamping could pose legal problems or contribute to incorrect diagnoses. At New York Hospital, electrocardiograms are stored in a computer so doctors can log on from their homes or offices. But if the dates were wrong, doctors might conceivably not be able to find the EKG or might look at the wrong one.
Moreover, some experts say, even if a machine does not need to know the date to perform its job, it might be built with off-the-shelf components that do keep track of the date and might shut themselves off if they cannot handle the transition to 2000.
So to be safe, some companies are checking everything, and there is disagreement on the risks.
"I would have surgery at midnight," Mr. Wetstein said confidently, referring to the start of 2000.
But the head of the hospital's overall Y2K effort, Susan Auman, whose background is in data processing, was more cautious, saying: "I wouldn't schedule surgery. I wouldn't fly."
 
Enter the Lawyers
Efforts Stymied By Fear of Lawsuits
One reason to test everything is to avoid being sued. The Y2K problem has attracted armies of lawyers, who have done more than anything else to elevate it from a concern of programmers to one of top management.
The lawyers are needed to deal with regulators like the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are requiring companies to prepare Y2K plans and to disclose their progress. In other cases, top management is worried about being sued if computer malfunctions disrupt business enough to make the stock plummet or hurt a customer.
The year 2000 problem has led some law firms to set up specialized Y2K practices.
"It's the bug that finally gives lawyers the opportunity to rule the world," Evelyn Ashley, an Atlanta lawyer, said at one of the several Y2K panels at this year's American Bar Association meeting in Toronto.
Some 30 lawsuits have been filed already, mainly focusing on whether software companies like Intuit and Symantec are obligated to provide free upgrades to programs that cannot handle the date change. Other questions being raised in court include whether insurance policies will cover damage caused by the year 2000 problem.
But if legal fears have pushed companies to take the Y2K situation more seriously, they have also made it harder to solve the problem, because companies are afraid to disclose information about problems they have.
The lawyers' defensive instincts are generating volleys of letters from companies to their suppliers, asking whether the suppliers will be ready for 2000. Sometimes, the letters come with a threat to cut the supplier off if it is not moving fast enough. The initial mailing from a group set up by five big auto makers surveyed 39,000 auto parts manufacturers because an entire assembly line could be idled if even one crucial part were not delivered. The airline industry has hired a consulting firm to survey the air traffic control, fuel supply, luggage handling and other systems at all 550 airports in the United States.
"Everyone is sending letters to everyone," Mr. Iacino of BankBoston said. "We're like ants in an anthill. We're all stepping on one another."
But the same lawyers who advise customers to query their suppliers are advising the suppliers not to answer the queries, or to answer them only vaguely. That is because statements about a company's readiness can be used against it in court.
The legal gridlock has caused alarm. "We've got to get this litigation monkey off our back so we can do our job," said Philip Rock, who is supervising Y2K work at the Bell Atlantic operations center in Framingham, Mass.
Several medical groups and members of Congress have publicly rebuked makers of medical devices for not disclosing information about potential problems.
Responding to concerns, Congress hastily enacted a law in October to shield companies from lawsuits based on wrong information they provide, as long as the disclosure is neither reckless nor fraudulent. But lawyers are advising that the law's protections are limited, which has discouraged companies from dropping their guard.
 
The Y2K Economy
New Strategies And New Jobs
Lawyers are only part of a whole new niche in the economy created by vast spending on the Y2K problem. So many companies offer fix-it services or software that stock indices have been created to track them.
Programmer shortages, though not as great as initially feared, have pushed salaries of Cobol experts to $75 an hour in some cities. To retain its best programmers, Bank of America is offering bonuses of up to $75,000, half not payable until May 2000. Some of the work has been shifted to India and other countries where programmers are cheaper.
Retired or laid-off Cobol programmers are getting second chances. Randall Bart, 41, of Torrance, Calif., who specializes in Unisys mainframe software, could not get another programming job after being laid off in 1988. "I had dead-end experience," Mr. Bart said. He worked as a poker dealer, among other odd jobs. But this year, he found work as a programmer again, fixing millennium bugs on the Unisys computer of a pen maker.
"Come 2001, I'll still have experience that people don't want," he said. "But at least I'll have made some money by then."
Investors are already moving away from some companies seen as vulnerable to year 2000 problems. The stock of Executive Risk Insurance of Hartford dropped sharply in July after Moody's, the credit rating agency, said the company could face huge claims from clients that experience business breakdowns in 2000.
On a broader scale, Global 2000, an international committee of major banks, is planning to issue a report card on the readiness of different countries in February, a move that politicians fear could cause capital flight from lagging nations.
The millennium bug is also helping reshape corporate strategies. The Corestates Financial Corporation of Philadelphia said the escalating cost of technology, including year 2000 repair, was one reason it agreed to be acquired this year by the First Union Corporation of Charlotte, N.C. Some 18,000 Massachusetts Medicaid patients were recently forced out of the Tufts Health Plan because Tufts decided it could not reprogram its computers to handle changes in Medicaid while also fixing Y2K problems.
"It was a very difficult decision for us because serving the Medicaid population is part of our mission," said Richard Shoup, Tufts' chief information officer. "But this is about business survival."
 
Jan. 1, 2000
Ready or Not, Deadline Nears
As midnight approaches on Dec. 31, 1999, some people will be happily participating in the greatest New Year's celebration of the last 1,000 years. Others will be bracing for disaster. But the final accounting will not necessarily come quickly. Indeed, the Gartner Group projects that less than 10 percent of the disruptions will strike in the first two weeks of 2000.
Edward Yardeni, the chief economist for Deutsche Bank Securities in New York who built a strong following on Wall Street by correctly forecasting the stock market boom of the 1990's, has said that there is a 70 percent probability that the millennium bug will cause a worldwide recession equivalent to the one that followed the 1973 oil shock. Enough computers will fail, Mr. Yardeni argues, that economies just will not be able to maintain their current level of output. Many other economists, however, think the economic impact will be more transient, like that of a hurricane.
The clashing prognosticators agree that, like the El Nino weather phenomenon, Y2K will be blamed for some problems in which it has no role. But also like El Nino, Y2K problems are certain to cause real disruptions. Many companies and Government agencies are simply too far behind to finish in time. And some that seem to be on schedule will fall behind because software projects are notorious for missing deadlines.
Some big companies are confident that they will be ready.
"I'll probably be here that night because they'll probably want me here, but I'll be here yawning," said Mr. Rock of Bell Atlantic.
Robert Green, Y2K manager for Public Service Electric and Gas, had a similarly calm forecast. "Hopefully on Dec. 31, 1999," he said, "the only ball dropping will be at Times Square."
Cap Gemini, the consulting firm, found in a survey of 1,680 multinational companies that spending on the year 2000 problem had doubled in the six months ending in October, a positive sign. Still, the American companies had spent only 61 percent and Europeans 48 percent of their year 2000 budgets, meaning that a huge chunk of work still lies ahead. As of the end of the third quarter, the Chevron Corporation had spent only $40 million of its projected $200 million to $300 million. And companies are finding the problem more costly than they thought. Merrill Lynch & Company raised its budget in the last six months by $100 million, to $400 million.
The estimated cost to fix the Federal Government systems has almost tripled, to $6.4 billion from $2.3 billion in March of 1997, with numerous agencies, including the Defense Department, rated as hopelessly behind schedule by Congressional overseers.
Even if the big companies are ready in time and the Federal Government catches up, surveys have shown that many small businesses, as well as Federal, state and local government agencies, are way behind. So are many foreign countries. A minister in Jamaica said it would take that Caribbean nation until 2004 to be ready for the year 2000. Economic crises are diverting attention in Russia and Asia, while European companies must grapple not only with Y2K problems but also with the reprogramming needed for the new currency, the euro.
Peter de Jager, the Canadian consultant who is perhaps the best known year 2000 Paul Revere, now predicts that the world will probably muddle through without the catastrophe he once foresaw. It might not be a glorious goal, but many Y2K experts would be delighted if it were attained. After all, the world is now so dependent on computers that there is no going back.
"We cannot go back because the infrastructure that undergirded our entire society 25 years ago has been dismantled," Senator Robert F. Bennett, the Utah Republican who is chairman of the special committee on the year 2000 problem, said this summer. "The skills are gone, the people are gone, the equipment is gone. Like it or not, we have no choice in this situation but to plow forward and, one way or the other, make it work."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lyudmila Zavlyanova uses a program, left, to find year 2000 computer problems at a New Jersey utility. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Hospitals are checking medical equipment to make sure it will function in 2000. Louis Wetstein, at New York Hospital, adjusted the dates on an electrocardiograph for a test. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 22); Worried about the havoc computer failures might cause, Kathy Garcia of Boulder, Colo., has stockpiled rice and other staples. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. 23)
 
Charts: "ANSWERS -- What Will Work?"
WILL MY HOME COMPUTER CRASH?
Your hardware will run and, if it is an Apple, it will recognize the year 2000. But older P.C.'s may have problems. The xes are simple. Consult the manufacturer. Many software programs may also have Y2K aws, including some that run on Apple computers. Back up all valuable les and check with the software maker for testing advice and software updates.
 
HOW ABOUT MY APPLIANCES AND OTHER CONSUMER PRODUCTS?
The microchips in consumer products generally ignore the date. Those that do not typically continue to function normally but display the date incorrectly. Some V.C.R.'s cannot be programmed to record a show in 2000 until the yearis corrected. Check with the manufacturer for potential problems and xes.
 
HOW ABOUT MY CAR?
Automakers say cars will function normally. Some models may incorrectly indicate it is time to be serviced. Gas stations should function if power and phone lines are working.
 
WILL AIR TRAVEL BE SAFE?
The planes themselves will not be a problem, but it is not yet clear that the air traffic control system will be able to operate at capacity or that all major airports will have eliminated bugs in all equipment.
 
WILL I BE ABLE TO GET MONEY AT AN A.T.M.?
Unless phone and power service has been cut, cash machines and banks in general are expected to be in good shape. Experts advise making paper records of all financial holdings at the end of 1999. Some suggest withdrawing several days' to several months' worth of cash. Others recommend spreading savings among several banks.
 
WILL PHONES, ELECTRICITY, WATER AND OTHER BASIC UTILITIES WORK?
Probably, at least initially, in most places. Still to be determined: how localized any initial breakdowns would be, how quickly they will be handled, and whether problems will get worse rather than better in the weeks after Jan. 1.
 
WHERE CAN I FIND OUT ABOUT HOW TO COOPERATE WITH NEIGHBORS TO REDUCE RISKS?
The Cassandra Project (www.millennia-bcs.com) has information on community groups.
 
(Illustrations by Tom Zeller/The New York Times)(pg. 22)
 
"OVERVIEW"
A Y2K Primer: The Big Picture . . .
The year 2000 poses a problem because many computer systems are unable to process dates beyond the year 1999. Here is an example of how a system fails:
 
THE SETUP
Computers do not understand dates, they understand numbers. Most programs use a six-digit number for dates, and the two most critical digits are those that represent the year.
 
COMPUTER LOGIC
 
TRANSLATION
Year, month and day
Dec. 27, 1998
Dec. 27, 2000
 
RIGHT DECISION
A program might compare the size of the years to decide, for example, whether a credit card expiration date had passed.
 
The number representing the expiration date is GREATER than the number representing today's date. The card is still good.
 
WRONG DECISION
If the expiration date is in 2000, however, the computer reads this as 00 and may mistakenly reject a valid card. The number representing the expiration date is LESS than the number representing today's date. The card is expired.
 
Date errors can be buried and repeated in millions of lines of code, and finding and fixing them are no easy tasks. Here is why:
 
CREATIVE PROGRAMMING
Programmers often used their own shorthand to represent dates and tasks, making them difficult for others to recognize.
 
LOST PROGRAMMING
Sometimes even the program is missing, leaving only the computer's core language: miles of 1's and 0's called binary code. In these cases, programmers must try to find dates among the cryptic 1's and 0's.
 
EMBEDDED SYSTEMS
No amount of programming can ferret out date problems on the billions of microchips that have computer code literally burned into them. In systems where dates are critical, these chips must be physically replaced.
 
(Sources: Computer Associates; International Data Corp.)(pg. 23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (71%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS CO (71%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); COMPUTER SOFTWARE; RUSSIAN-AMERICANS; COMPUTER SECURITY COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); COLD WAR (90%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); POWER FAILURES (75%); BUDGETS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (69%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



602 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: Here's Your Raise.

 BODY:
Now, You Can Take the Day Off.
 Not all bosses have big egos, big mouths and tight fists. Many are softies who will go the extra mile to help an employee, even if there is nothing in it for them. What acts of kindness, or workplace heroism, has your boss performed? Send your best stories to On the Job, Money and Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. Or send them by E-mail to onthejob@nytimes.com. Include your telephone number. All submissions become the property of The Times and may be republished in any medium.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



603 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Decline of Violent Crimes Is Linked to Crack Market

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

 BODY:
New statistics released yesterday by the Justice Department are helping criminologists resolve a contentious mystery: why violent crime has dropped seven straight years after a surge in the 1980's.
The statistics, showing that robbery fell a stunning 17 percent in 1997, suggest that while there are many factors behind the decline in crime in the 1990's, the crucial ones may be the withering of the crack market and the efforts by police to seize handguns from criminals and juveniles. The two crimes that have fallen most sharply since 1991 are homicide and now robbery, the two most often committed with handguns and most associated with the crack epidemic in the late 1980's, the criminologists say. 
 "Homicide and robbery were the two crimes most impacted by crack markets, with the biggest increases, and now as crack markets have declined, homicide and robbery have led the way down," said James Alan Fox, dean of the college of criminal justice at Northeastern University.
The figures on robbery were released yesterday by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, a branch of the Justice Department, as part of its annual survey of victims of crime, known as the National Crime Victimization Survey. The survey, carried out for the Justice Department by the Census Bureau, asks 80,000 people 12 and older whether they have been victims of a crime in the past year. It complements the other major national set of crime statistics, the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Uniform Crime Report, which measures crimes reported to the police.
Over all, the Justice Department said, the level of both violent and property crimes experienced by Americans has fallen to its lowest mark since 1973, when the victimization survey was started. In fact, the rate of property crimes -- which include burglary, theft and motor vehicle theft -- has fallen by more than half, to only 248 per 1,000 households in 1997, down from 555 per 1,000 households in 1973.
Property crime, unlike violent crime, has been dropping steadily since 1975.
Among the reasons, experts say, are the aging of the baby boom population beyond its prime years for committing crime, the increased use of security alarms and the switch of many criminals to robbery from burglary in the 1980's as a quicker way to make money and buy the crack they needed. Robbery involves theft through the use or threat of violence, while burglary involves entering a building with criminal intent.
Violent crime has traced a different story, surging unexpectedly with the crack epidemic starting about 1985, and then beginning to fall, equally unexpectedly, in 1991. Only in retrospect have law-enforcement authorities and criminologists been able to theorize about the causes of the rise and decline in violent crime.
At a conference of leading experts in New Orleans this month sponsored by the Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation, Alfred Blumstein, a criminologist at Carnegie Mellon University, outlined research on what has come to be the most widely accepted view -- that all of the huge increase in homicide in the late 1980's and early 1990's was attributable to a rise in killing by juveniles and young people ages 24 and under, since homicide by adults 25 and older has fallen since 1980.
In turn, the increase in killing by young people was driven by the sudden spread of crack markets and the growing use of high-powered semi-automatic handguns. In fact, Professor Blumstein said, "the growth in homicides by young people, which accounted for all the growth in homicides in the post-1985 period, was accounted for totally by the growth in homicides committed with handguns."
Since 1991, homicides have dropped 31 percent, to 6.8 per 100,000 in 1997 from 9.8 per 100,000, while robberies have fallen 32 percent, to 185 per 100,000 in 1997 from 272 per 100,000, according to the F.B.I. These are the largest declines for any of the major violent or property crimes.
Bruce Johnson and Andrew Golub, scholars at the National Development and Research Institutes in New York City, showed the critical role of crack in leading violent crime up and then down. When crack arrived in New York in 1985, it created a huge new market, for users and dealers, because unlike heroin, it was sold in small amounts that provided an intense but short-lasting high that required users to go on constant "missions" to find more.
Hundreds of thousands of unskilled, unemployed young men from New York's poor inner city neighborhoods suddenly jumped into the crack business as sellers, and to protect themselves in an unstable business environment, acquired handguns. The combination of their impulsive youth, the confused market situation, the paranoia induced by crack and the increased firepower of the new handguns led to an explosion in homicides and robberies.
The sharp drop in violent crime starting in 1991 can be accounted for by the reversal of these same forces, in what Mr. Johnson and Mr. Golub described as "an indigenous shift," as youths who came of age in the 1990's turned against smoking or selling crack.
"The primary reason" these young people give for avoiding crack, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Golub reported, "is the negative role models in their lives.
"They clearly do not want to emulate their parents, older siblings, close relatives or other associates in their neighborhoods who were enmeshed with crack," he said.
Crack produced "devastation" in their lives, and they now shun or deride anyone who smokes crack.
Among other factors that have played a role in the decline in violence, the experts at the New Orleans conference pointed in particular to aggressive new actions by the police in many cities to stop gun violence, either by frequent searches, as has happened in New York, or by improved efforts to trace guns used in crimes and arrest gun traffickers, a Boston tactic.
The booming economy of the 1990's has also helped, the experts agreed, providing legitimate jobs to some urban young people who had worked in the drug trade.
The evidence on the role of imprisonment in curbing crime is less clear, the experts said. There is no question that the almost quadrupling of the number of people incarcerated since 1970, to 1.8 million, has incapacitated many criminals and prevented many crimes.
But since the prison population has expanded steadily over the past 25 years, it does not explain why crime increased sharply in the late 1980's or decreased in 1991. Here, Professor Fox said, it may be necessary to look separately at the incarceration of adults and juveniles, a study that has not yet been done.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (73%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (73%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); NATIONAL CRIME VICTIMIZATION SURVEY (55%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); NATIONAL CRIME VICTIMIZATION SURVEY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (73%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (73%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); NATIONAL CRIME VICTIMIZATION SURVEY (55%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); NATIONAL CRIME VICTIMIZATION SURVEY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; FIREARMS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); CRIME RATES (92%); STATISTICS (92%); VIOLENT CRIME (91%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (91%); VANDALISM (90%); CRIME STATISTICS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); COCAINE (90%); ROBBERY (89%); BURGLARY (89%); PROPERTY CRIMES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (74%); AGING TRENDS (73%); VEHICLE THEFT (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); CENSUS (68%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX R ALAN FOX (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1998



604 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: 10 NUCLEAR MISSILES DEBUT -- Russia deployed 10 new Topol-M nuclear missiles in the Saratov region, 450 miles southeast of Moscow. The deployment was a major step for Russia's cash-shy military, because the Government does not have enough money to maintain all its armed forces and decided to concentrate on developing the single-warhead Topol-M, which has a range of 6,200 miles. (AP) 

RUSSIA: YELTSIN'S VOW TO FIGHT CENSORSHIP -- In his first television interview since August, President Boris N. Yeltsin vowed on Saturday to fight extremism and protect the press against attempts to restore censorship and other restrictions. Mr. Yeltsin's promise followed calls by Communists and other hard-liners in Parliament to reintroduce censorship and put television under control of government supervisory committees. (AP)
 
GERMANY: PUSHING TAX PLAN FOR EUROPE -- Germany, which takes over the European Union's rotating presidency next week, said it would push proposals for greater tax harmonization in the 15-nation bloc despite resistance from other member countries. Finance Minister Oskar Lafontaine and Wolfgang Clement, premier of North Rhine-Westphalia, said it was vital that the union narrow the wide gaps in tax levels to prevent economic distortions. (Reuters)
 
FRANCE: STRIKERS SHUT ANOTHER MONUMENT -- The Arc de Triomphe, one of Paris's most popular tourist attractions, closed to visitors as the monument's employees went on strike over staffing levels and pay. In the last two months, wildcat strikes have also barred tourists at various times from the Eiffel Tower and the Louvre, Orsay and Grand Palais art museums. (Reuters)
 
 TURKEY: PREMIER TESTS THE WATERS -- Prime Minister-designate Yalim Erez begins a round of meetings today to assess his chances of forming a new coalition government, his staff said. Turkey has been without a government since Parliament toppled Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz on Nov. 25 for reputed links to organized crime. (Agence France-Presse)
 
ASIA
 
JAPAN: AN ECONOMIC MEA CULPA -- The Japanese Government admitted that it acted too nonchalantly in pulling the domestic economy out of a recession after the investment boom in the late 1980's burst. The economic planning agency said in a report that the Government failed to fully anticipate the adverse effects of disposing too slowly of bad loans by financial institutions. (Agence France-Presse)
 
JAPAN: SECURITY ALERT -- Japan must guard against a revival of the doomsday cult Aum Shinrikyo and possible extremist Muslim attacks on American military sites in Japan, the Public Security Investigation Agency said in its annual security review. It said that Aum Shinrikyo, the cult behind the 1995 nerve-gas attack in the Tokyo subway that killed 12 people and made 6,000 ill, was working to increase membership. (Reuters)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
SAUDI ARABIA: THREAT TO BIN LADEN -- Saudi Arabia denied that the governor of Riyadh, the Saudi capital, plotted to assassinate Osama bin Laden, the suspected mastermind of the August bombings of United States Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. In an interview with a Pakistani newspaper, The News, Mr. bin Laden, who was stripped of Saudi citizenship in 1994, accused the governor, Prince Salman bin Abdul Aziz, of offering $267,000 for his death. (AP)
 
LIBYA: QADDAFI'S MEDIATION OFFER -- President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda is visiting Libya for talks with the Libyan leader Muammar el-Qaddafi, who offered to act as a peace mediator in the five-month war in the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Libyan JANA news agency said. African leaders have been flying into Libya since the Organization of African Unity announced in June that it would no longer abide by a United Nations air embargo against flights to Tripoli when the trips involved official business or relief projects. (AP)
 
AFRICA
 
ETHIOPIA: OPPOSITION LEADER FREED -- The Ethiopian Government announced the release of the opposition leader Asrat Woldeyes for medical treatment in the United States. Professor Asrat, head of the All-Amhara People's Party, had been detained in Ethiopia since 1994, charged with incitement to rebellion. (Reuters)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
BARBADOS: GENERAL ELECTION CALLED -- Prime Minister Owen Arthur has called a general election on the Caribbean island for Jan. 20, the Caribbean News Agency reported. Mr. Arthur, 49, who is calling the election eight months early, said his ruling National Labor Party would run on its record of improving the economy and reducing unemployment. (Reuters)
 
COLOMBIA: REBELS SECURE SITE OF TALKS -- Heavily armed rebel fighters swept into the town of San Vicente del Caguan to secure the area for peace talks with the Government next week. The guerrillas of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia arrived two days after the last Government detachment of soldiers pulled out. Rebel leaders insisted on the region's demilitarization as a condition for taking part in the first talks in six years aimed at ending the country's long civil conflict. (Reuters)
 
GUATEMALA: CHURCH AGAIN DEMANDS INQUIRY -- The Roman Catholic Church in Guatemala is renewing its pressure on the Government to investigate whether the military was involved in the killing of Auxiliary Bishop Juan Gerardi. The 75-year-old bishop was found bludgeoned to death on April 26, two days after he delivered a report of human rights abuses by the military during the country's civil war. (Agence France-Presse)
 Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Map

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (76%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (52%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CENSORSHIP (90%); TAX LAW (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); STRIKES (88%); CULTS & SECTS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RECESSION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); TAX TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); TOURISM (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); ORGANIZED CRIME (50%); 

PERSON: BORIS N YELTSIN (66%); OWEN ARTHUR (55%); ASRAT WOLDEYES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1998



605 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: In Drive on Dissidents, China Gives 4th Severe Sentence in Week

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Dec. 27

 BODY:
Dealing out the fourth lengthy prison term to political dissenters in a week, China today convicted a man for "providing intelligence to hostile foreign organizations" because he gave an interview about farmer protests to the United States-financed Radio Free Asia, a human rights group said.
After an unusual Sunday trial in the southern province of Hunan that lasted less than three hours, the defendant, Zhang Shanguang, 42, was sentenced to 10 years in prison, according to the group Human Rights in China, based in New York. 
 Mr. Zhang previously spent seven years in prison for organizing an independent labor union in 1989. This year, before his detention in July, he had formed a group to protect laid-off workers and tried to register it with local officials.
Chinese authorities, fearing social unrest at a time of rising unemployment, appear to be especially fearful of any labor organizations outside Communist Party control, and of any efforts to link up disaffected workers with democracy campaigners.
Earlier this week, as part of the most severe crackdown on dissidents here in two years, three long-time activists who promoted a new China Democracy Party, Xu Wenli, Qin Yongmin and Wang Youcai, were convicted on subversion charges and given sentences of 11 to 13 years.
At his brief trial today in Huaihua City, Hunan, Mr. Zhang was charged with "illegally providing intelligence to hostile foreign organizations and persons," according to his lawyer and relatives.
The indictment specifically cited a telephone interview Mr. Zhang gave last March to Radio Free Asia in which he discussed a protest against high taxes by 70 to 80 farmers in one Hunan county, and another incident in which a farmer who refused to pay a tax was killed.
Numerous such farmer protests have been reported around the country in recent years and top national leaders have spoken out against high, unfair burdens put on peasants by local and county governments.
Radio Free Asia, which was set up in 1996 and receives all of its funds from Congress, broadcasts news and other programs into China from transmitters in Central Asia and the Pacific. The Chinese Government sees the network as hostile and tries, with some success, to jam the broadcasts, which often emphasize democracy-related subjects that are banned in the national media.
"We deeply regret this action," said Daniel Southerland, executive editor of Radio Free Asia, speaking by telephone from Washington today.
In the March interview, Mr. Southerland said, journalists called Mr. Zhang to verify reports of the farmer protests and "he didn't say anything that wasn't widely known -- certainly it wasn't national security information."
Radio Free Asia, which broadcasts in native languages to eight countries where news is censored, frequently quotes Chinese residents on its programs, though does not use names when it appears the speaker would be endangered.
Reeling from the recent trials, China's remaining dissidents are now waiting to see if the Government will stop with the jailing of a few leaders or continue on with more arrests.
In general, only those who have been actively involved in organizing the new political party or independent worker groups have been imprisoned for any length of time.
In contrast to earlier decades, Chinese people today are fairly free to voice dissenting opinions in private -- so long as they do not act on them.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CENTRAL CHINA (94%); HUNAN, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: RADIO FREE ASIA RADIO FREE ASIA (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: RADIO FREE ASIA

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (94%); HUNAN, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; AGRICULTURE; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LABOR UNIONS; LABOR; FARMERS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS VERDICTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); PRISONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SENTENCING (78%); LITIGATION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (77%); COUNTIES (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); CENSORSHIP (72%); LAWYERS (71%); FARM LABOR (70%); RIOTS (68%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; ZHANG SHANGUANG ZHANG SHANGUANG (90%); DANIEL SOUTHERLAND (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1998



606 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Revenue and Profit to Rise at DaimlerChrysler

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: STUTTGART, Germany, Dec. 27

 BODY:
DaimlerChrysler A.G., the world's fifth-largest auto maker, said today that its 1998 combined sales would rise significantly and that profit would exceed last year's figures of the combined Daimler-Benz A.G. and the Chrysler Corporation.
Robust economies in the United States and Europe led to hefty sales. DaimlerChrysler said that 1998 sales would climb more than 13 percent to 260 billion marks -- now $154.4 billion -- from 229 billion marks and that profit would be "significantly higher" than Daimler and Chrysler's combined 1997 results. Daimler completed a $36 billion takeover of Chrysler in November. 
 Daimler said it hoped to broaden its product lines and save an annual $3 billion within three years with its purchase of Chrysler. Although the company plans to keep the sales and marketing of its brands separate, it hopes to see significant savings through increased buying power. In its first full year, 1999, the company said it expected to save $1.4 billion.
"Our integration teams are well on their way to defining and beginning the synergy projects, which will be reflected in the 1999 business figures," Jurgen E. Schrempp and Robert J. Eaton, the company's co-chairmen, said in a statement.
DaimlerChrysler said it expected sales to rise to 4.4 million vehicles in 1998 from combined sales of 3.6 million last year, exceeding an earlier estimate of 4.2 million for 1998.
The numbers are the first combined figures that DaimlerChrysler has released since shareholders approved the acquisition in September.
The company's passenger car divisions are expected to post record sales this year. Sales of Mercedes-Benz luxury cars and of Smart mini-cars should increase 11 percent, to 60 billion marks, or $35.8 billion, from 53.9 billion marks in 1997, the company said. Sales are expected to rise nearly 19 percent, to more than 850,000 vehicles from 715,000 in 1997.
Sales of the former Chrysler Corporation's vehicles, including the Dodge, Jeep and Plymouth brands as well as revenue from Chrysler financial services, are expected to increase to $65 billion from $61.1 billion. Sales of Chrysler vehicles will exceed three million.
In its commercial vehicle division, sales of Mercedes-Benz, Freightliner, Sterling and Setra trucks and buses are expected to climb 15 percent, to 45 billion marks, from 39.1 billion marks in 1997. Unit sales will reach 480,000, compared with 417,384 trucks and buses in 1997.
Sales by DaimlerChrysler Aerospace A.G. are expected to increase 11 percent, to 17 billion marks from 15.3 billion last year while revenue from financial services and related operations is seen rising 16 percent, to 18 billion marks from 15.5 billion in 1997.
Adtranz, a floundering rail-equipment joint venture with ABB Asea Brown Boveri, is expected to post flat sales of 6.4 billion marks as it tries to reorganize and return to profit, the company said.
DaimlerChrysler said it hired 13,000 new workers in 1998, increasing its combined payroll to 434,000 worldwide. More than half of the work force is in Germany and one-third in the United States.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAI (FRA) (96%); DAI (BIT) (96%); EAD (PAR) (61%); EAD (MCE) (61%); ABJA (FRA) (60%); ABJ (FRA) (60%); ABBN (SWX) (60%); ABB (STO) (60%); ABB (NYSE) (60%); ABB (NSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (60%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (60%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (60%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (60%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); 

COMPANY: DAIMLER AG (96%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (61%); ABB LTD (60%); CHRYSLER FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (74%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); ACQUISITIONS (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); APPROVALS (67%); 

PERSON: ROBERT J EATON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1998



607 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Digital Commerce;
The boom in on-line shopping adds a twist to the old quandary of how to tax interstate purchases.

BYLINE: By Denise Caruso 

 BODY:
EVEN before the final sales numbers were tallied last week, it was clear that on-line holiday sales would shoot well past all expectations. And according to one recent study, the fact that buyers could make their purchases without paying state or local sales taxes or use taxes was a strong incentive for shopping on the Internet.
Those who successfully pushed for passage in October of the Internet Tax Freedom Act, which declared a three-year tax moratorium for on-line sales, have reason to cheer. 
 But the long-term implications could be troubling. Although the potential revenue is still too small to pose a serious problem in the immediate future, what happens a few years down the pike, when states see as much of as one-third of their revenues circling the drain?
"Right now, sales tax is the most important source of revenue for states, so the moratorium is something they're clearly aware of and worried about," said Austan Goolsbee, an economics professor at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.
Prof. Goolsbee, who recently completed a study of the purchasing habits of on-line consumers, said his research showed that the number of on-line shoppers and the dollar amounts they spend would drop by 25 percent and 30 percent respectively if they were charged sales tax on their purchases.
Despite the hue and cry that taxing Internet sales is "unfair" to a budding new form of commerce, the Internet in fact only intensifies a problem that has been brewing for decades in the mail-order business.
Simply put, the legal issue is how to tax purchases that cross state lines.
A state's sales tax, per se, can only be collected when both buyer and seller have a physical presence in the state -- meaning that either there must be a face-to-face transaction or an out-of-state seller must have an outlet somewhere in the state where the buyer lives.
Until a few decades ago, this arrangement worked fine. When mail-order sales started to pick up steam, state governments decided they had better impose a "use" tax on people who bought items through catalogues (so called because they used their purchases in the state). Although virtually no one pays such a tax and virtually no state enforces it, consumers are supposed to voluntarily pay the equivalent of sales tax on these out-of-state purchases.
Sellers cannot be required by states to collect these use taxes from their customers, as they collect sales tax, because of constitutional provisions banning the states from interfering with interstate commerce.
Although catalogue and Internet buyers benefit from this tangled web, even legendary tax opponents like Arthur Laffer, the supply-side guru of the Reagan Administration, are concerned about the implications.
"A lot of government is at risk here," Mr. Laffer said. "Sales tax funds virtually everything in the state," including police and fire departments, welfare, roads, schools and mass transit.
"It is probably the single best tax the state has, because it has the broadest base and the lowest rate to collect large sums of money to fund government services," Mr. Laffer said.
The situation is something of a political football, says Walter Hellerstein, a law professor at the University of Georgia who specializes in the application of constitutional law to state taxes.
Despite the fact that state governments derive at least a third of their revenue and often more from sales tax, Mr. Hellerstein says, neither the Supreme Court nor Congress wants to be responsible for the havoc that would be created if the physical presence rule were rescinded.
"Mail-order sellers, since before 1967, have made billions of dollars in sales and have never collected use tax or filed a tax return," he said. "Because of that, the statute of limitations is open" and, theoretically, sellers could be required to pony up huge sums of dollars in back taxes, a situation that would put most of them out of business.
Other economists are recommending even more radical action. The Center for Community Economic Research at the University of California, Berkeley, warned in a paper in August 1995 that "state and local government finances are becoming road kill on the information superhighway."
In making its policy recommendations, the center noted that commerce was increasingly conducted nationally and globally, rather than locally. Thus, it said, state and local taxes should be scaled back or even eliminated and replaced with a national tax that is disbursed back to the states.
Stating that "study after study has shown the regressive nature of sales tax as a revenue source," the paper said sales and use taxes on mail-order (and, it would follow, Internet) purchases have more impact on the poor, the disabled and the elderly than on anyone else.
Tell that to the advisory commission on electronic commerce that was mandated by President Clinton, after the passage of the Internet Tax Freedom Act, to come up with a solution to the taxation problem.
The commission, which was to be made up of equal numbers of industry and government representatives, is already being berated by local government agencies like the National Association of Counties for being lopsided in favor in industry -- with powerhouse companies on board, including Time Warner Inc., Charles Schwab & Company, the Netscape Communications Corporation and MCI Worldcom Inc.
Government agencies are not the only ones incensed by the composition of the commission. "This does not pass the smell test," said Charles McLure, a senior fellow at the Hoover Institute at Stanford University and the economist who wrote the basis for the Tax Reform Act of 1986. "This is, 'We're going to build a fence around the chicken coop -- but let's not put any chickens on it; let's put some wolves.' "
Whatever the commission's final composition may be, one hopes its deliberations will be shaped by larger societal concerns and not just the convenience or power of the fortunate few.
"Everyone thinks they have a constitutional right to buy tax free when they buy mail order," Mr. Hellerstein said. "At some point, there's going to be revenue shortfall, and then I don't know what will happen. Right now, everyone's flush and all they can think about is some other way to cut taxes."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (55%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SALES TAX; MAIL ORDER COMPANIES; INTERSTATE COMMERCE; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB TAXES & TAXATION (92%); INTERNET RETAILING (91%); SALES TAX (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (87%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERNET SALES TAX (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); TAX LAW (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); 

PERSON: CARUSO, DENISE AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1998



608 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-16
 
Is Germ Warfare a Part Of New Russia's Future?
Just as the Soviet Union was ending its confrontation with the West in the late 1980's, the military officers who ran Moscow's secretive germ warfare program ordered up new, much deadlier arms. The belated discovery of this secret research is one of the elements of a fierce dispute in Washington over whether the Russian military is heeding President Boris N. Yeltsin's 1992 order to abandon germ warfare. A1 

Hamas 'Path to Holy War'
Sheik Ahmed Yassin, the founder of Hamas whose release from house arrest by the Palestinian Authority on Thursday drew sharp criticism from Israel, delivered a fiery speech in Gaza the day after he was freed in which he declared that members of the organization "must continue on our path to holy war." A1
 
African AIDS Activist Slain
A volunteer working to persuade South Africans not to discriminate against H.I.V.-infected people was beaten to death by her neighbors. Anti-AIDS advocates said the killing proved that South Africans are afraid to admit they are infected because of the hostility they face. A5
 
Rebels Blamed for Crash
Angolan radio blamed rebels for shooting down a United Nations-chartered plane carrying 14 people, but a U.N. official said the organization had no immediate information about the cause of the crash. A6
 
Chinese Dissident Sentenced
China sentenced Zhang Shanguang to 10 years in prison for "providing intelligence to hostile foreign organizations" because he gave an interview about farmer protests to Radio Free Asia, a rights group said. A9
 
Kosovo Rebels Attack Police
As the truce in Kosovo Province continued to disintegrate, rebels left the hills and attacked a large police post on the main road between the Serbian capital of Belgrade and Pristina, the provincial capital. A16
 
Hospitals Strapped in Iraq
Iraq's medical system is all but paralyzed as a result of economic sanctions imposed by the United Nations eight years ago. Although the effect of sanctions is evident in every aspect of life, there are few places where it is more visible than at the country's hospitals. A12
 
World Briefing A16
 
NATIONAL A18-25
 
Holiday Sales Reflect Confidence in the Economy
American shoppers appear to have spent freely from wallets that still feel pretty fat, giving retailers a muscular, if not stellar, holiday season, retail analysts and merchants said. Department stores that cater to the middle price range felt the squeeze as customers split their dollars between high-end and low-end merchants. A1
 
A University's Identity Crisis
The University of Chicago, which has exemplified intellectual seriousness for 100 years, is reducing its core curriculum and increasing its recreation and service facilities, in part to make itself more attractive to high school seniors. Such changes are drawing criticism from those who see a threat to the university's uniqueness and mission. A1
 
Explaining the Drop in Crime
New statistics from the Justice Department suggest that while there are many factors behind the decline in crime in the 1990's, the crucial ones may be the withering of the crack market and police efforts to seize handguns from criminals and juveniles. A18
 
Smallest of the Octuplets Dies
The smallest of the week-old octuplets born to a Houston woman died after the infant's heart and lungs gave out and mechanical respiration failed to help her, Texas Children's Hospital said. A18
 
Republicans Remain Confident
Leading Republicans like John Engler, the Governor of Michigan, say they are not worried that their party will suffer long-term damage from a backlash to impeachment because they expect that the Senate will settle the matter quickly. A25
 
President Clinton's impeachment trial will proceed, but the likely result will be censure, not conviction and removal from office, several senators said. A25
 
Puzzling Fall in Otter Population
The population of Southern sea otters living along the central California coast appears to be diminishing at a rate that perplexes and worries scientists. Some fear that the decline may signal a new danger for the health of the species, which was hunted almost to extinction in the 18th and 19th centuries. A20
 
6 Children Die in Fire
Six children died in a fire at their grandmother's house in Detroit yesterday, where they were staying while their mother was at a hospital giving birth. Four people escaped from the blaze, which trapped the children, ages 2 to 11, in two bedrooms. Thirteen children have died in Detroit fires this month. A18
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Albany Failing in Effort To Limit Campaign Donors
More money than ever is pouring into New York campaigns, but the system of regulating these funds to curb their influence on politics and policy has all but broken down. Porous laws, feeble enforcement and a political class increasingly adept at sidestepping the rules have left the system with few constraints, according to a review of campaign documents and interviews with elected officials and others. An analysis of this year's contests shows a virtual free-for-all of donating and spending. A1
 
Second New Jersey Bus Crash
A tour bus carrying 30 Chinatown residents home from Atlantic City careered out of control in Edison, N.J., and hit a tree, injuring everyone aboard, two of them critically. The cause of the accident was not immediately determined. B1
 
Funerals were held for five of the eight people killed when their bus to Atlantic City tumbled down an embankment last week. B1
 
Fox Hunting Comes Under Fire
The 90-year-old tradition of fox hunting in the Dutchess County village of Millbrook is under pressure from a messy property rights lawsuit and from some animal rights advocates who have abandoned their neutrality and begun siding with the foxes. B1
 
Six Dead in Day of Violence
A 9-year-old boy who was killed by a hit-and-run driver in Queens and a man who was shot 13 times on an Upper West Side street were among six people who were killed and four others who were injured during an unusually violent day in New York City, the police said. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B3
 
SPORTS MONDAY D1-12
 
Jets Await the Playoffs
The Jets, now one victory away from going to the American Football Conference championship game, break a franchise record with their 12th victory, a 31-10 trouncing of the New England Patriots. D1
 
Season Over for the Giants
The Giants, knocked out of the wild-card playoff picture by Tampa Bay's victory, end their season with a 20-10 victory over the Eagles. D1
 
OBITUARIES B8
 
Honoria Murphy Donnelly
The daughter of Gerald and Sara Murphy, the golden couple at the center of the modernist whirl in 1920's Europe, she was 81. B8
 
Syl Apps
The Hall of Fame center of the Toronto Maple Leafs when they dominated the National Hockey League in the 1940's and one of Canada's finest athletes of his era, he was 83. B8
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-8
 
Television Choices to Multiply
Digital technology, which enables the television signal to carry far more information, is ushering in an age when viewers may have 1,400 or 1,500 channels from which to choose. A1
 
Auto Maker's Sales Rise
DaimlerChrysler, the world's fifth-largest auto maker, said that its 1998 combined sales would rise significantly and that its profit would exceed last year's figures of the combined Daimler-Benz A.G. and the Chrysler Corporation. C2
 
Lower Expectations for Film
"The Prince of Egypt," an animated film that tells the story of Moses, has held up at the box office, but many people in Hollywood say the movie is not showing signs of becoming a mega-hit, as had been predicted. C1
 
Digital Radio Planned for 2000
The promise of a crisp radio signal that can be heard anywhere in the nation appears to be only about a year from reality. Two companies with Government licenses plan to bring satellite-delivered digital broadcasts to radio in 2000. C6
 
Agreement for Italian TV unit
Telecom Italia has agreed to sell up to 80 percent of its Stream pay-TV unit to the News Corporation. C2
 
Stocks Higher in Tokyo
Stocks were higher in Tokyo this morning. In early trading, the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 shares was up 69.64 points, or half a percent, at 13,867.59. (Bloomberg News)
 
Business Digest C1
 
ARTS E1-10
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Sound advice from the Senate; good-times budgeting in New York; Verlyn Klinkenborg on winter in the Chihuahuan desert.
 
Columns: Columns: William Safire.
 
Bridge E8
 
Weather B9
 
Crossword E8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ANGOLA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (65%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: HAMAS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ANGOLA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (65%); ILLINOIS, USA (65%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); HAMAS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); RETAILERS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PARALYSIS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CURRICULA (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); AIDS & HIV (74%); HOUSE ARREST (74%); HOMICIDE (74%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); SENTENCING (69%); ARRESTS (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); CORE CURRICULUM (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1998



609 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Good-Times Budgeting in New York

 BODY:
The boom on Wall Street and rippling prosperity in the region have again brought a bounty of budget surpluses to New York City and New York State. The good times guarantee, in turn, that the New Year will begin with temptations at City Hall and the State Capitol to spend the money on expanded programs and tax cuts. But as Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and Gov. George Pataki put the final touches on budgets due in January, they need to remember that deficits and mounting debts remain a long-term threat to the fiscal health of the city and state. The surpluses of today should be husbanded as a cushion against the day when the economy turns down.
As State Comptroller Carl McCall reported earlier this month, New York City is likely to end the current fiscal year with a $1 billion surplus, which is certainly positive news. But he also noted that spending is growing at a rapid rate, largely because of salary increases for city workers negotiated four years ago. As a result, the city is projecting a budget deficit of nearly $3 billion in two years, while debt service is scheduled to consume 19 percent of the budget by the year 2002. City Hall regards Mr. McCall's projection as overly pessimistic. Even so, Mr. Giuliani has sensibly asked city agencies for possible budget cuts for the next year. 
 The city's sobering budget outlook would get worse if the Wall Street boom faded, which many experts fear is likely. In addition, the last contract of District Council 37, the largest municipal union, was unpopular with its members but approved in what turned out to be a rigged election. Employees are certain to demand bigger wage and benefit hikes in the next round of talks. Mr. Giuliani may be running for higher office by then, but he needs to begin making plans to insure that new wage increases are financed by changes in work rules to lower costs and improve productivity. He should also take some of the current surplus and use it for capital projects like school construction, or to pay down existing debt to lower debt-service costs in the years ahead.
In fiscal terms, the state is in more precarious shape than New York City, largely because of the Albany addiction to enacting tax cuts and spending programs that grow each year. Though the state is also ending the current year with a surplus, estimated at $1.5 billion, it faces a deficit next year of $2.5 billion and more than $5 billion the year after. Last week, Joseph Bruno, majority leader of the Republican-controlled State Senate, announced that despite the projected deficit, he would push for a new program of college-tuition tax breaks that, when fully implemented, would drain $800 million a year. The Democratic-controlled Assembly is expected to push for tax cuts to encourage job growth upstate, and for more spending on schools and early childhood programs. Both sides have hinted that they will seek money from the settlement with tobacco companies to pay for their programs.
Mr. Pataki has not said what his own priorities will be. But as his own office noted last week, it will be hard enough to preserve previously enacted tax cuts and spending hikes without adding costly new initiatives. The most prudent approach for the state would be similar to that for the city: using the bonanza of surpluses to lower debts and invest in the state's infrastructure, avoiding a lurch from deficit to deficit and a scramble to make ends meet when the good times stop rolling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); TUITION FEES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1998



610 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: SURGE OF SHOPPING IN DECEMBER GIVES MERCHANTS A LIFT

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
Largely undistracted by the impeachment of President Clinton and the bombing of Iraq, American shoppers appear to have spent freely from wallets that still feel pretty fat, giving retailers a muscular, if not stellar, holiday season.
Though industry figures will not be officially reported until early January, retail analysts and merchants themselves are predicting that December sales in big-chain stores open at least one year will rise for the second year in a row by as much as 4 percent to 5 percent. 
 This year's holiday shopping reflected generally buoyant consumer spending and an overall economic picture -- rebounding stock prices, low inflation, and a tight job market -- that remains quite rosy.
"As long as consumers continue to get their daily fix from the stock market, they will continue to spend," said Stephen Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company. "Nothing will stop them -- not impeachment, global turmoil or warm weather."
But they waited a while before rushing to the mall. Like Johnny Mathis carols and reruns of "It's a Wonderful Life," last-minute and post-Yuletide shopping are becoming something of an American Christmas tradition these days. In keeping with a trend of recent years, a larger portion of holiday sales came in the week just before Christmas and in the weekend right after.
"Once again, shoppers procrastinated until the last minute, waiting for the biggest bargains," said Bruce Van Kleeck, president of the National Retail Federation. This year, retailers had to "count on late shopping and after-holiday sales to be the savior," he said.
Department stores that cater to the middle price range felt the squeeze as customers split their dollars between high-end and low-end merchants. Sales at Sears, Roebuck & Company and the J. C. Penney Company were expected to be flat, and, once final figures are in, the entire sector is expected to show gains of just 1 percent to 2 percent.
Almost everyone else, however, appears to have done relatively well. Specialty apparel stores, in particular Ann Taylor, Victoria's Secret, which is a unit of Intimate Brands, and The Gap chains -- Banana Republic, Old Navy and The Gap itself -- sustained their strong performance by appealing to consumers with distinctive merchandise and effective ad campaigns.
These stores even lifted sales at regional shopping malls, which came up short of overall estimates last year, according to John Konarski, senior vice president of the International Council of Shopping Centers. The malls are expected to be in line with the sales-growth estimates of 4 percent to 4.5 percent, he said.
Discount chains like Target, a division of the Dayton Hudson Corporation, and Wal-Mart Stores were the 800-pound gorillas of the season, catering to throngs of people determined to get their scented candles, George Foreman meat cookers, and Furby's at the lowest possible prices. Some 80 percent of Americans were expected to buy at least one holiday item from the discounters, up from 70 percent last year.
At the other end of the spectrum, luxury retailers basked in the stock market comeback. Jewelry was particularly popular this year. In Jacksonville, Fla., Mike Alexander bought gold bracelets for his mother and sister because they already have "everything else." Anything cashmere also had people cuddling up to the registers. At Baby Gap Luxe, a miniature bubble-gum-pink cardigan with matching pants, both made of the downy fabric, were racing out the door for a mere $155 a set.
Electronics retailers like Circuit City Stores Inc. and the Best Buy Company benefited from consumers snapping up personal computers, many of them for less than $1,000. And they enjoyed increased sales from new products that are starting to enter the mass market as prices drop. These include digital video cameras and DVD players, which use compact-disk-sized platters to play movies at home. They now are being sold for as little as $400.
Martha Stewart loomed as a presiding spirit this season as products relating to the home, from chenille throw pillows to leather easy chairs, were hot again. "We've moved past apparel as a Christmas item," Wendy Liebmann, president of WSL Retail, a consulting and consumer research firm, said. "Upscale consumers are saying, 'I don't need any more clothing.' In turning to the home, people are being both fashionable and practical."
Plenty of the gifts these stores sold, of course, were neither. At Restoration Hardware Inc., whose strong sales made it a leader in homewares, the seasonal standout was a silver-plated cocktail shaker shaped like a penguin, whose beak dispenses martinis.
Pre-holiday markdowns were just as fierce as in years past. Consumers have come to expect big discounts early in the season, and retailers delivered them earlier than ever. Signs enticing consumers to take 20 percent off were abundant around the country right after Thanksgiving, as were newspaper coupons. The cuts deepened with each passing week, particularly on cold-weather items. The weekend before Christmas, the Bloomingdale's flagship store at 59th Street and Lexington Avenue in New York was decorated like the banquet hall in a medieval castle, with red banners hanging from the rafters proclaiming an extra 15 percent off, even on many items already marked down.
The good news, from the standpoint of the retailer's bottom line, is that many cuts were premeditated. Battle-hardened from years past, many merchants have finally accepted that the intense customer appetite for preseason sales cannot be wished away. Merle Goldstone, a spokeswoman for Macy's in San Francisco, said, "We anticipated a very competitive environment, took it into account for our sales strategy, and are happy with the results."
Still, the diving prices were painful for some retailers to absorb, especially those who compete mostly on cost. "This year was an even more promotional year than last year," said Duncan Muir, a spokesman for J. C. Penney, "and that's going to hurt around the margins."
The Saturday before Christmas, which looks like it will end up as the busiest shopping day of the year, collided directly with the House debate and vote to impeach President Clinton. Shoppers and merchants alike agreed, a little shamefacedly, that the moment of high political drama had virtually no effect on people's efforts to complete their gift lists. "Nobody's talked about anything but makeup all day," said Joanie Kleinberg, who worked a Bobbi Brown cosmetics counter on impeachment day. "Isn't that scary?"
Asked if the historic events in Washington had affected her plans to spend the day hunting for gifts, Chris Schneider, a 45-year-old accountant from Denver loaded down with shower gels and lotions from Bath and Body Works, replied: "No, and that's sad, isn't it?"
For all retailers' hopes that the remarkably resilient economy would fuel a gangbuster season with 6 percent or even 7 percent gains, sales during the holiday season were nothing extraordinary, roughly in line with sales gains throughout the year.
Unseasonably warm weather for much of December can be blamed for depressing sales of winter apparel, but clearly that was not the whole story. Many analysts pointed to a realignment of buying priorities. "Consumers are still spending a lot," said Judy Tenzer, a spokeswoman for the American Express Company, whose Retail Index tracks buying patterns. "They are just spreading it across a lot more activities, like travel and parties."
Also benefiting from shoppers' search to provide a more intimate gift than a sweater or bread machine was the spa business. Elizabeth Arden Red Door Salons, for example, said purchases of gift certificates for facials, body scrubs and the like are up 25 percent over last year.
Another warning sign, particularly for mall retailers, was the holiday success of on-line merchants. Even before Christmas, on-line stores had already racked up sales that matched start-of-the-season predictions of $2.3 billion, double what they did last year. The question now, as the figures on on-line sales are collected, is whether they will manage to go well beyond these expectations.
A spokeswoman for Macy's, a unit of Federated Department Stores Inc., said recently that its World Wide Web site, launched in mid-November, was getting 10 million hits a day, far more than Macy's had anticipated. Nordstrom Inc. also experienced an electronic rush. Anna Schryver, spokeswoman for Lands' End Inc., the mail-order apparel company, said that its Web traffic "had broken all records."
Being on the Internet, however, did not immunize Lands' End from pressures facing other apparel merchants. The company, which has been troubled lately and recently booted its chief executive, started marking prices down even before the holiday season to attract the growing number of consumers who will not lay down money until they see a bargain.
And while shopping on the Web remains a tiny fraction of the estimated $174 billion in retail sales for the holiday season, that did not stop Internet merchants from gloating.
Amazon.com Inc., the cyberspace bookselling powerhouse, would not release precise numbers, but said visitors to its Web site on the day after Thanksgiving quadrupled from last year. "1998 goes down in history," Bill Curry, a company spokesman, said, "as the year the Internet became a mainstream alternative."

 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (85%); JCP (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (69%); WMT (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (85%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (85%); J C PENNEY CO INC (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (69%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (65%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (52%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (54%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (54%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; FORECASTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CHRISTMAS RETAILERS (93%); CHRISTMAS (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1998



611 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2125 words

HEADLINE: Germ Weapons: In Soviet Past Or in the New Russia's Future?

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER and WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
Just as the Soviet Union was ending its confrontation with the West in the late 1980's, the military officers who ran Moscow's secretive germ warfare program ordered up new, much deadlier arms.
At a remote laboratory complex in Kazakhstan, Russian scientists began animal testing of the Marburg virus, a highly contagious germ that kills by attacking every organ and tissue in the body. 
 This secret testing, described recently by several veterans of the Soviet program, went undetected at the time by Western intelligence agencies, which knew few specifics about the plant's operations.
Kazakhstan gave up nuclear, biological and chemical weapons soon after it became independent, and permitted American experts and a handful of reporters to visit the plant. From their observations, and from Soviet defectors, the West has finally learned what was unfolding there in the final years of the cold war.
The belated discovery of this exotic arms research is one of the elements of a fierce dispute in Washington over whether the Russian military is heeding President Boris N. Yeltsin's 1992 order to abandon germ warfare.
Similar uncertainties loom about Iraq. With the apparent end of United Nations inspections, the West is now trying to track Baghdad's germ work with satellites and, perhaps, spies -- the same methods that failed to unmask the Soviet program.
Clinton Administration officials contend that Russia no longer poses a major threat. Western experts have visited most of its key civilian laboratories, and officials disclosed that Russia had recently moved closer to allowing Western experts to visit its closed military installations, a crucial step that could dispel many of the lingering doubts about Moscow's activities.
Administration officials assert that much of what they now understand about the Soviet Union's germ weapons has been gleaned through Western aid programs intended to foster peaceful research projects. Those projects also pay salaries to former germ scientists, fending off what officials say is the gravest danger from the Soviet program -- recruitment of scientists by rogue states or terrorists.
But some Administration officials and Republicans in Congress assert that Russia is still secretly researching germ weapons, just as it did in the cold war.
Congress recently cut spending on the cooperative exchanges with Russian germ scientists from $14 million to $7 million, both because of persistent doubts about Russian intentions and to punish Moscow for selling nuclear and missile technology to Iran.
The debate turns partly on history. After developing germ weapons for several decades, the United States and Russia signed an international treaty in 1972 banning such arms. Almost immediately, Soviet defectors say, Moscow secretly redoubled its germ research and production.
Officials and lawmakers acknowledge that there is scant hard evidence to support their suspicions that Russia is cheating again, but point to Moscow's reluctance to open up its military bases as an ominous sign.
That may be changing. Two weeks ago, the officials said, a small group of Pentagon experts and senior defense scientists met their Russian counterparts for the first time at the Military Academy of Radiological, Chemical and Biological Defense, a once-closed military training institute in Tambov, some 300 miles southeast of Moscow.
High on the agenda were possible scientific exchanges that may provide direct Western access to Russia's biological "holy of holies," as one official put it, four military installations at the heart of the Russian germ empire -- Sergiyev Posad, Kirov, Yekaterinburg (Sverdlosk), and Strizhi, none of which has been visited by the West.
Officials said the military teams had agreed in principle to a series of military exchanges, starting in the United States sometime next year.
"This is the beginning of a long process," said an official who spoke on condition of anonymity. "But the ice has finally been broken, and it's now clear that both of us want to do business."
The breakthrough is potentially significant. Iraq's entire germ arsenal contained enough deadly poison at its peak to kill all the people on earth many times over, according to United Nations weapons inspectors. Yet, the Iraqi program was dwarfed by the amount and variety of weapons the Soviet Union had secretly amassed.
The Soviets, as suggested by their research on the lethality of the Marburg virus, were racing ahead in their final days to develop entirely new classes of weapons.
With more than 60,000 scientists and experts at work, they were also developing compounds that could control human moods, heart rhythms and sleep patterns and that could be used to destroy an enemy army. Among the many unanswered questions, American officials say, is where such work stands today.
 
Kazakhstan's Past
City of Death Tries to Stay Alive
Stepnogorsk, in Kazakhstan, was the only major Soviet germ installation outside the Russian heartland. Called the Scientific Experimental and Production Base, it was known only by its post office box, No. 2076.
While Western intelligence analysts had deduced from the configuration of the buildings that it was designed to produce anthrax or other bacteriological agents, they never figured out precisely what the kind of research was being done, what weapons the factory was making or what threat it posed.
Built on a huge scale on a desolate, wind-blown steppe of Central Asia, it is an eerie place to visit. The security fences are no longer electrified. Air locks hang open. Plastic floor covers installed to ease decontamination are torn and buckling from neglect and the cold.
Six stories high and two football fields long, the central factory there is filled with 10 giant fermentation vats, each meant to brew 5,000 gallons of anthrax microbes -- enough to kill every man, woman and child in America many times over. Iraq's entire germ production could have just about fit into one of those vats. And Stepnogorsk was only one of six such Soviet plants.
"As you can see, we haven't made that in some time," Gennadi L. Lepyoshkin, the base's director, told Pentagon experts and a reporter who recently walked through the anthrax plant, which is being dismantled with Pentagon aid. "And we will never do it again."
Russian workers began building the complex in 1982. Former Soviet officials say it was a replacement for Sverdlosk (now Yekaterinburg), the Russian military installation where, in 1979, an accidental release of anthrax microbes killed about 70 people as well as livestock up to 30 miles away.
Its role in the confrontation between the superpowers remains unclear. Kanatjan Alibekov, or Ken Alibek, as he is now known, Stepnogorsk's former director who defected to the United States in 1992, says the plant was to produce up to 330 tons of final "product" in a 200-day period if the order came to mobilize for war.
To this day, however, Moscow says Stepnogorsk made only vaccines and other defensive germ products. But Russian scientists who worked there in Soviet days and now run the place say otherwise. "This plant was an integral part of the Soviet germ weapons program," said Dr. Lepyoshkin, the former Soviet colonel who now heads the National Center on Biotechnology in Kazakhstan.
Moreover, the remaining physical evidence of its real purpose is impossible to hide. Next to a concrete bunker is a machine that Dr. Alibek said was for filling and sealing bomblets. Such equipment -- what a Pentagon official called "a smoking gun" in that it proves the factory produced weapons, not vaccines -- had never previously been discovered at a Russian germ installation.
Since 1996, Washington has been trying to help Kazakhstan convert the installation to peaceful work through a low-key, $5 million program. But the effort has moved slowly. Financial aid was tied up until last spring when Kazakh officials finally stopped demanding that Washington fork up $12 million for unpaid utility bills and pay taxes on its assistance.
Commercial success will not be easy, experts say. Stepnogorsk is extremely isolated and, as of last month, had food shortages and little or no heat. The city's airport is mothballed, as are the only hotel and movie theater.
Last March, a well-equipped toxicology lab there opened after an infusion of more than $750,000 in American aid. The lab employs about 60 former germ scientists who have begun producing, among other things, vials of burn ointment.
Other former employees are struggling to make a living in the impoverished town of 70,000. "Hope dies last," said Sergei Antonovitch, a former germ plant scientist who now owns a poorly stocked pharmacy in town.
 
Russia's Future
U.S. Tries to Plumb Moscow's Intentions
While Kazakhstan has dismantled its germ program, doubts persist about Russia.
Moscow's lies about the issue during the cold war, skeptics in Washington argue, make trust and cooperation impossible. Supporters of the Western programs say they do not blindly trust Russia, but feel that partnership is the best chance for verifying Moscow's claim to have renounced germ weapons.
Skeptics note that Mr. Yeltsin has banned Russian experts from discussing any aspect of their country's germ history and has retained several generals instrumental in the Soviet program.
They worry, particularly, that research may be quietly proceeding on some of the least known of the Soviet advances: "bio-regulators." This work was aimed at creating germ agents that could take control of human functions like moods, heart rhythms and sleep patterns.
Dr. Igor V. Domaradskizh, a pioneer of the Soviet program, said in a recent interview that his scientists were searching for compounds that could "sharply change a person's behavior or emotions, such as causing fear or an ultra-rapid heartbeat."
As far as is known, they did not succeed. But Dr. Domaradskizh said biological science had now progressed to the the point where "it can be done."
Dr. Alibek, the former germ scientist who once ran the plant in Kazakhstan, is critical of part of the West's approach. The Soviet germ program was hidden in a myriad of civilian and military institutes. Even Soviet intelligence, the K.G.B., he disclosed, had its own germ centers, which developed agents for assassination under the code name Flayta, or Flute.
Some of Moscow's former germ scientists, he said, have recently published papers that could conceivably aid weapons research, including several about cultivating the deadly Marburg virus.
Russia, Dr. Alibek insisted, will never entirely abandon a program in which it had military superiority, no matter how many treaties it signs or cooperative programs it joins. "I say, 'Guys, don't be so gullible. They're lying to you,' " he said.
Representative Floyd D. Spence, the South Carolina Republican who heads the House Committee on National Security, contended that even civilian biology partnerships might be dangerous if they helped sustain Russia's germ establishment.
Administration officials say those exchange programs are already showing beneficial results. Those who follow the program most closely say that there is no evidence of large-scale activity even at the military institutes. And one American expert, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said Russia's economic turmoil made large-scale germ work unlikely.
"Maybe there is a well-lit, well-heated, well-funded military lab out there that is just humming along, totally insulated from the cutbacks that have slashed funding for military salaries and other critical Russian defense needs," he said. "But I don't believe it."
Top Russian scientists deny that Russia still has a germ weapons program. "Everything has been destroyed, on our side and yours," said Nickolai N. Urakov, a former Soviet general who heads a converted germ center at Obolensk that now does research for peaceful purposes.
Former Senator Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat who helped sponsor legislation authorizing the scientific exchanges and recently toured Obolensk, said the ambiguity about Russia's germ program would persist because much basic biological research has both civilian and military applications.
"This is not something you see with a satellite," he said. "It all turns on intent. That's why this is such a hard intelligence problem."
But the gamble, he said, is worth the risk.
"We still don't know, and won't know for many years to come, whether or not we succeeded," Mr. Nunn said recently in Moscow. "But we do know that while we can argue about whether the glass is half full or half empty, we know that the trend is right. A decade ago, the glass was all empty."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 29, 1998, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture yesterday with the continuation of a front-page article about the Russian and former Soviet germ warfare programs, showing a former anthrax plant in Kazakhstan, was printed upside down. The long pipes should have been at the top and the vats at the bottom.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A machine for filling germ bomblets in Soviet days in Kazakhstan. (Judith Miller/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Some of the smaller germ fermenters at the former anthrax plant in Stepnogorsk, Kazakhstan, which is now being dismantled with American aid. (Paul Miraglia); United States officials observing the dismantling of a germ production installation in Stepnogorsk, Kazakhstan, earlier this year. (Judith Miller/The New York Times)(pg. A11)
 
Map of Kazakhstan showing location of Stepnogorsk: Stepnogorsk was reportedly a center of the Soviet germ arms effort. (pg. A11)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KAZAKHSTAN; STEPNOGORSK (KAZAKHSTAN) ; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (55%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RESEARCH; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; TESTS AND TESTING MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (93%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); COLD WAR (89%); MILITARY BASES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); ESPIONAGE (78%); TROPICAL DISEASES (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); TERRORISM (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); INSPECTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JUDITH; BROAD, WILLIAM J; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1998



612 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: Democracy for All?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"Indonesia at a Crossroads: Democracy or Chaos?" (front page, Dec. 26) highlights a misconception held by many in Washington: with the collapse of Communism, Western-style democracy is the only viable global alternative to national socioeconomic disaster. 
 Many developing countries want neither Communism nor Western-style democracy. Crippled by poverty, they hover in a twilight zone between incipient democracy and political disaster. When issuing injunctions to countries seeking their own forms of emancipation, policy makers should recall that the United States ranks last among the industrial countries in per-capita contribution to international development.
 
DAVID HEAPS
Princeton, N.J., Dec. 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); POLITICS (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INJUNCTIONS (53%); 

PERSON: HEAPS, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998



613 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 6; Column 1; Health & Fitness 

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL HEALTH;
Choosing Right to Make Healthiest and Tastiest One and the Same

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY 

 BODY:
I was at a holiday party last week. As you might guess, there were platters of cookies, cakes and candies to tempt the weak of will. But the three dishes that disappeared the fastest were a lentil soup, a salad of lentils, rice and fresh vegetables and a hot-smoked salmon fillet. Were these downed first because the nutrition police were watching, because the partygoers were a particularly health-conscious bunch, or because these dishes were simply delicious?
Actually, all three reasons prevailed. I was there, and people assume that I watch what everyone eats. My fellow celebrants were educated, reasonably affluent and aware of the connections between food and health. But to me the most salient explanation was that the foods that happened to be healthiest were also the best tasting. 
 Indeed, according to a recently published survey of food choices among nearly 3,000 American adults, taste (surprise, surprise) emerged as the overriding criterion for food choices, regardless of age, income or ethnic background. People simply like to eat what tastes good to them.
Unfortunately, what tastes good to most Americans is not exactly good for them. What makes food taste good to most people? Fat and sugar. And, predictably, as Americans choose pleasure over nutrition, we are eating more of both. True, the percentage of calories from fats has declined, but because we are eating about 300 calories a day more than we used to, we are actually consuming as much fat as before, primarily in fast foods, restaurant meals and snacks.
Currently, about 60 percent of Americans eat at least one restaurant-prepared meal every day, and most of those meals are made without so much as a nod toward good nutrition. These high-fat, low-fiber meals account for half of our caloric intake. And while the craze for fat-free and low-fat foods has not yet abated, the most popular choices are not fruits, vegetables and whole grains (which are naturally low in fat) but sweet baked goods and frozen desserts, which are loaded with sugar to enhance the flavor lost when fat was reduced.
Only about 15 percent of Americans now consume the recommended minimum of five servings a day of fruits and vegetables, the foods most closely linked to leanness and health. In recent years, there has been no change in consumption of vegetables, particularly the most protective dark green and deep yellow ones.
To no one's surprise, children are not doing any better than adults. With 60 percent of moms working and time pressures on families ever more acute, ready-made and fast-food meals have become the norm in many households with young children. American children are fatter today than ever before, and one in five has a cholesterol level that is setting her or him up for future heart disease. Food specialists at Edelman Public Relations Worldwide have predicted, "In the next 10 years, there will be consumers who have never cooked a meal from basic ingredients, and many of them will have been the children of today."
 
Obstacles to Change
Now, as the day of grandiose resolutions approaches, the time is ideal for all Americans to prepare for the next millennium by making gradual changes toward a healthier diet. It is important to remember that although medical advances are keeping us alive longer than ever before, the goal is not living long per se but living a quality life in one's later years.
Consumer surveys reveal that resistance to adopting a healthier diet can be attributed to a combination of time pressures and false beliefs. Nearly three-quarters of American adults categorize foods as either "good" or "bad," and more than a third think that eating healthier means giving up their favorite foods, i.e., the "bad" foods. Yet, the message nutrition specialists advocate is moderation, not elimination. While some food fanatics may label cake, candy, ice cream, steak, fries or even pizza as poison, most well-schooled and realistic experts say there is room for all of these, in reasonable amounts now and then, in almost everyone's diet.
"Reasonable amounts" is another problem. Anne Wolf, a registered dietitian at the University of Virginia Health Science Center, points out that "our portion sizes have totally changed."
"The original Coke bottle was a six- or eight-ounce bottle," she added. "Then it grew to the 12-ounce can, then the 20-ounce bottle, and then the Big Gulp. And now we have the Double Big Gulp, which has 10 times the calories of a Coke 50 years ago," she said. "Or consider McDonald's. Today, consumers are into value meals, so you not only get your hamburger -- which is bigger -- but you get more french fries and a bigger soda."
Ms. Wolf laments, "We've internalized these larger portion sizes and, frankly, it's very hard to downsize."
Other obstacles to dietary change include the mistaken belief that eating better is important only for those with serious health risks, resistance to change and confusion about conflicting information that can emerge from studies on nutrition and health. Is margarine O.K. or not? Is a high-carbohydrate diet the right choice, or does it lead to weight gain? Does alcohol protect from heart disease but cause breast cancer? Is olive oil healthy or just another source of fat? A quarter of adults say there are so many conflicting studies they do not know what is good for them, so they have just tossed up their hands and opted to make no changes at all in their eating habits.
 
Making Painless Changes
Although children learn to like best what they grow up eating, it is also true that people's tastes can change. After all, few adults of today grew up eating the packaged, fast-food and take-out meals they now consume. But since economic realities combined with on-the-go life styles make it highly unlikely many people will return to cooking most meals from scratch, what are the options?
For one, fresh fruits require no preparation and are ideal snacks and desserts for young and old. Many supermarkets have salad bars or produce sections with cut-up vegetables ready for steaming or stir-frying or use in salads. Or, though not as crunchy or tasty, frozen vegetables (without creamy sauces) are as nutritious as fresh ones.
Fiber-rich whole-grain cereals and breads take no more time to buy or prepare than pasty white ones. Fish fillets and chicken and turkey breasts without skin cook quickly and require only a little seasoning to be moist and delicious. Canned beans are a nutritious, instant addition to salads, soups and pasta sauces. Tuna and sardines packed in water, canned salmon, sliced turkey breast and boiled ham make great sandwiches or salad additions.
My favorite meal plan is to cook a few double recipes on the weekend that can be heated in the microwave for instant meals all week long. To overcome the resistance to change (your own or your family's), it is wise to avoid revolutionary alterations. If you change just one meal a week, or one meal every two weeks, by the next millennium your taste buds will have adapted to a whole new and more nutritious diet, achieved painlessly and without the likelihood of relapse into old unhealthy habits.
Wishing you all a happy -- and healthy -- New Year.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Scott Baldwin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (60%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: EDELMAN (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; DIET AND NUTRITION; CHRISTMAS NUTRITION (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); CONFECTIONERY (89%); OILS & FATS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (77%); FROZEN DESSERTS (76%); FAMILY (76%); PARENTS (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); FROZEN FOODS (72%); CHOLESTEROL (69%); BAKED GOODS (58%); 

PERSON: BRODY, JANE E ANNE WOLF (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998



614 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 10; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Why Are Dinosaurs Green? Don't Ask

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI 

 BODY:

THE LAST DINOSAUR BOOK
The Life and Times of a Cultural Icon
By W. J. T. Mitchell
Illustrated. 321 pages. The University of Chicago Press. $35.
 In "The Last Dinosaur Book," the scholar W. J. T. Mitchell solemnly suggests that Steven Spielberg's "Jurassic Park" does for the dinosaur what Spenser's "Faerie Queene" did for the dragon. He adds that the movie's ending -- in which the human characters manage to escape when their pursuers, a pair of voracious female velociraptors, are attacked by a huge Tyrannosaurus rex -- expresses "a nostalgia for the days of big patriarchal capital, before the arrival of career women and 'clever girls' in multinational corporations." 
 As Mr. Mitchell sees it, the T. rex symbolizes "the good old days of 'feudal' capitalism, when companies were identified with individual 'giants' (like Spielberg himself) who were capable of great evil and great good," while the raptors "represent the new stage of post-modern capitalism, of 'downsizing,' flexibility, rapid strike forces, teamwork, adaptability, steep learning curves, and (not incidentally) gender confusion."
Were such observations delivered with any wit or tongue-in-cheek humor, "Last Dinosaur" might well make for entertaining reading. As it stands, however, the book is a lumbering, dinosaurian tome that takes a potentially engaging subject, our current fascination with dinosaurs and the cultural reasons behind it, and turns it into absurdly pretentious treatise, gussied up with all the latest Marxist, feminist and structuralist allusions.
Although Mr. Mitchell has assembled an impressive archive of dinosaur images -- from Barney to the dinosaur skeleton in the Cary Grant movie "Bringing up Baby," from the Sinclair gas logo to the logo of the Toronto Raptors basketball team -- he does little to shed light on what these images might mean.
The main problem with this copiously illustrated book is that Mr. Mitchell, a professor in the departments of English and art history at the University of Chicago, sees dinosaurs not merely as "an infinitely flexible cultural symbol," but as "a kind of blank slate on which every kind of collective and individual fantasy can be projected." In other words, dinosaurs can mean anything and everything.
They are "us" and "not-us," Mr. Mitchell writes: "As erect bipeds, they resemble us; as reptiles, they are the 'other,' the exotic, strange, sinister alien, loaded down with satanic associations, from the serpent who tempts Eve to the Great Red Dragon of the Apocalypse." On one hand, dinosaurs "can symbolize the dominant 'master race' that commands a global empire"; on the other hand, they can symbolize "the vanished, savage races that lost out in the Darwinian struggle, or an invading horde of aliens who threaten white supremacy." They can be figures of "obsolescence and failure to adapt," or in the case of Godzilla, symbols of "novelty and sometimes runaway innovation."
"The dinosaur is a prestige symbol for modern nation-states," Mr. Mitchell asserts, "and a model for ideologies of world conquest and domination. It is associated with childhood, old age and everything in between. It is associated with sexual differentiation and reproduction, and with the failure to reproduce. It is a figure of everything alien to human nature (coldblooded, reptilian, rapacious) and of all that is most familiar in human nature (coldblooded, reptilian, rapacious)."
To the Victorians, Mr. Mitchell contends, the dinosaur was a fitting symbol of "the world's largest empire at the peak of its glory and self-confidence." The Crystal Palace exhibition of 1854, fittingly enough, included the very first dinosaur reproductions made for the public: huge, life-size leviathans that "reflected the best scientific knowledge of the time" but that look, in retrospect, like reptilian hippos or the offspring of a buffalo and iguana.
To Americans of the gilded age, however, the dinosaur's aura was best captured, Mr. Mitchell argues, by Charles Knight's famous paintings, which depicted heavily armored behemoths in one-to-one combat: "the paleontological equivalent of that other war of giants, the struggles among the 'robber barons' in late 19th-century America." This period, he goes on, "so often portrayed as the era of 'social Darwinisn,' economic 'survival of the fittest,' ruthless competition, and the formation of giant corporate entities headed by gigantic individuals is aptly summarized by the Darwinian icon of giant reptiles in a fight to the death."
Although such arguments make sense in a late-night college bull session sort of way, they are undermined by Mr. Mitchell's repetitious and highly disorganized narrative, his passion for pompous and unhelpful digressions (about everything from Jeffersonian democracy to modernist art), and his tendency to push his observations past the bounds of common sense.
Indeed, "Last Dinosaur" is peppered with specious remarks. In one chapter Mr. Mitchell writes: "When Foucault wondered what would take the place of the Age of Man he probably didn't suspect that it would be the Age of the Dinosaur." And in another: "If the dinosaur is an ancestral figure at the level of community or nation, it is the Oedipal father in the private sphere."
Some of Mr. Mitchell's remarks are pedantic statements of the obvious: "A cubist dinosaur would not be of much use, either to a paleontologist or to the public." Some are predicated upon dubious findings: "The fortunes of dino-science seem to flourish in inverse relation to dinomania: when the scientific side is depressed, the popular image seems to become even more inflated and prolific."
And others are just plain comical. Wondering why dinosaurs in the modern period (1900-1960) were usually depicted as being green, Mr. Mitchell asks, "Is it a symbol of the 'colored' racial other, the savage, primitive denizen of the green world? Or is it an emblem of the white man's burden, the color of the military camouflage required for the Great White Hunter to blend in with the jungle and thus to dominate it?"
Such passages do not add to our understanding of dinosaurs as a cultural icon. They instead read like a parody of current academic scholarship: lots of sound and fury, signifying nothing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: W.J.T. Mitchell (Joel Snyder/University of Chicago Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LAST DINOSAUR BOOK, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: W J T INC (90%); BRINGING UP BABY INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; DINOSAURS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BASKETBALL (87%); LITERATURE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); ART HISTORY (72%); WOMEN WORKERS (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); HISTORY (61%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (60%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, W J T; KAKUTANI, MICHIKO STEVEN SPIELBERG (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998



615 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: The Euro's Promise and Peril

 BODY:
The creation of the euro -- combining 11 European currencies, including the German mark, the French franc and the Italian lira -- is a historic milestone on the path toward European union. It will push European countries to adopt more similar economic policies while depriving individual nations of significant powers they now enjoy. At best, it will make Europe into an economic machine rivaling the United States. At worst, it will lead to political strife within the Continent.
For a couple of years the change will not be completely apparent to travelers, for national currencies will continue to circulate. But as of Jan. 1 those currencies will legally be units of the new euro, as dimes are units of dollars. By mid-2002 the old currencies will vanish into collectors' vaults, and only euro coins and bills will be legal tender. 
 The euro is likely to join the dollar as a reserve currency held by central banks around the world, perhaps leading some banks to sell dollars and thereby reduce the value of the American currency. But the United States and other countries will benefit if the euro helps to promote economic growth on the Continent.
At the same time, the change is fraught with peril. National governments have given up substantial amounts of sovereignty to make the change, often without real involvement by voters. Only two countries chose to put the issue to popular referendums. It narrowly passed in France and was defeated in Denmark, which stayed out. Other countries approved it through parliamentary votes.
By making it easier to do business throughout Europe, the euro is likely to stimulate mergers, particularly in the financial services industry. The euro may encourage countries to compete for industries by offering tax breaks, much as the states do in America. Finally, the euro will put pressure on governments to relax business regulations. For example, companies may henceforth have much greater freedom to dismiss workers.
Such a course seemed attractive to the conservative governments that set Europe on the path to monetary unification, but it is less enticing to the more leftist governments that now hold sway in many countries. Even as the euro is inaugurated, fights are brewing over the European Union's budget, particularly its generous agricultural subsidies, and over the amounts paid by each country. Oskar Lafontaine, the new German Finance Minister, is worried about what he calls "unfair tax competition" from some countries in Europe, and wants European rules setting minimum tax levels. That might reduce the risk of Germany's losing companies to Ireland, but it would also lessen Europe's international competitiveness.
The new European central bank, legally independent from national governments, faces the difficult job of setting a single monetary policy for a diverse Continent that could be seeing strong growth in one region while another is weak.
The challenge for Europe will be greatest in the next cyclical downturn. There is a risk that one country or another could elect a government that blames its economic problems on European central bank policies over which it has no control, and threatens to withdraw from the currency union unless changes are made. The rules Europe has adopted say that no country can withdraw from the union once it enters, so such a threat would create a crisis. There is no risk of that in the immediate future. With luck, the arrival of the euro will improve European economies, enhance European cooperation and promote world growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (79%); DENMARK (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (79%); DENMARK (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (93%); EURO (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); COINS & COINAGE (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); TRENDS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); MONETARY POLICY (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); REFERENDUMS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); DISMISSALS (62%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998



616 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Are Expected to Slip in 1999

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 28

 BODY:
United States home sales will slip in 1999 from this year's record pace, but interest rates will stay low and demand will remain strong, the National Association of Home Builders said today.
The association projected sales of newly built single-family homes at 781,000 for 1999, down from a record 870,000 homes this year. 
 "Conditions were optimal for new home buyers to jump into the market, with interest rates low, the job market extremely strong and consumer confidence high," the group's president, Donald Martin, said of this year's housing market.
The association said housing starts and sales were expected to slip next year because the United States economy will slow. The association forecast 1999 growth of 2.5 percent, down from 3.7 percent this year.
The association said it expected rates on 30-year fixed mortgages to remain below 7 percent through the turn of the century. It said rates should fall from the 1998 average of 7 percent to 6.5 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF HOME BUILDERS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF HOME BUILDERS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING STARTS (88%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (88%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); SALES PROJECTIONS (88%); MORTGAGE LOANS (87%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); EMPLOYMENT (55%); 

PERSON: DONALD MARTIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998



617 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Another Big Day for Issues Connected to the Internet

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed yesterday as the growing use of the World Wide Web for shopping and stock trading lifted such Internet retailers as Skymall and sent Charles Schwab, the No. 1 on-line brokerage firm, past Merrill Lynch in market value.
Traditional retailers, like Wal-Mart Stores and Sears, Roebuck, fell. 
 Electronic commerce "is a legitimate avenue of growth for many companies," said Trent May, manager of the $1.2 billion Invesco Growth Fund. Mr. May has 3 percent of his fund -- which has returned 41 percent this year -- invested in America Online.
The Nasdaq index, which is heavily weighted toward technology stocks, rose 17.27 points, or eight-tenths of a percent, to 2,180.30, its fourth record in six sessions. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 8.76 points, to 9,226.75, for its seventh straight advance, matching the longest string of gains this year.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell eight-tenths of a point, or less than one-tenth of a percent, to 1,225.49. About eight stocks fell for every seven that rose on the New York Stock Exchange.
Stocks pared gains with an hour left in the trading session amid selling by "momentum" investors -- professionals and individuals who chase rising stocks looking for short-term gains.
"There is a lot of fear surrounding Internet stocks and what will happen when the market comes back to reality," said Tim Ghriskey, a senior portfolio manager at the Dreyfus Corporation, which oversees $95 billion.
A little more than 531 million shares changed hands on the Big Board, well below the daily average of 729 million shares for the last three months. Trading is expected to be slower than usual all week, as it typically is in the week between Christmas and New Year's. That could mean stocks will move erratically as the year-end maneuvering of money managers has a disproportionate effect.
Skymall, the nation's largest in-flight catalogue retailer, soared 23, to 35 9/16, after doubling on Thursday and was the most active stock in United States trading. The company estimated that its Internet sales rose sevenfold in 1998 as more people shopped on line.
Schwab rose 3 1/4, to 63 5/8. The company now has a market value of $25.5 billion, more than the $25.1 billion for Merrill Lynch, the biggest United States securities firm by number of brokers. Merrill fell 1 1/16, to 70 3/4.
"A lot of people did their Christmas shopping on line this year," said Ryan Crane, who follows Internet stocks for AIM Advisors Inc., which oversees $100 billion and owns CDW Computer Centers, an on-line computer seller, and Infospace.com, an Internet directory. "Those same Internet-savvy people that are shopping on line are probably the ones that are buying these stocks."
Traditional retailers declined. Wal-Mart slumped 1 1/4, to 79 7/8. Sears fell 7/8, to 41, May Department Stores dropped 5/8, to 60 1/16, and J. C. Penney lost 1 1/16, to 47 5/8.
Professional investors began cutting the amount of money they put into general retail stocks like Wal-Mart in late November, according to money-flow statistics from Bloomberg Analytics. The money-flow data measure the amount of money institutional investors put into a stock each time the price rises compared with the amount they take out when it falls.
Of the 20 most active stocks yesterday, 18 benefit directly or indirectly from the Internet's growth. Active Apparel Group soared 10 1/4, to 11 1/2, after the sportswear maker said it created a Web site to sell its clothes, marketed under the brand names Everlast, Converse All Star and MTV's the Grind. The company's market value surged to $29 million yesterday from $3.1 million.
E*Trade Group climbed 11 3/4, to 56 3/4, after the No. 2 on-line broker said its new Web site had signed up more than 500,000 members since September, when E*Trade began a $100 million marketing campaign to add new accounts. Amazon.com, the on-line retailer, jumped 27 1/8, to 351 15/16.
America Online, the No. 1 on-line service, jumped 20 5/8, to 157 1/4, and Yahoo gained 28 3/8, to 275 1/2. Netscape, the Internet software company, rose 9 1/2, to 68 3/16.
The surge in Internet stocks for months has been driven by individual investors, who have been "day trading" -- buying shares in the hopes of selling them minutes or hours later at a profit. With many professionals out of the office this week, the effect of individuals will be even more pronounced, analysts say.
"All these Internet stocks are going to run this week," said Bill Burnham, electronic commerce analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston. "There are no institutions in the market, they're all on vacation, and all these people sitting at home after having their turkey dinner are going to move the stocks."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since December, 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%); SCHW (NYSE) (58%); IVZ (NYSE) (57%); AOL (NYSE) (57%); BCOR (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (83%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (83%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); CDW CORP (83%); DREYFUS CORP (66%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (58%); INVESCO LTD (57%); AOL INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); BLUCORA INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTERNET & WWW (92%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); ONLINE TRADING (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES BROKERS (77%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: CHARLES R SCHWAB (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998



618 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1844 words

HEADLINE: Struggling to Spell R-E-L-I-E-F;
Though Promising, Sales of Migraine Drugs Face Hurdles

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW 

 BODY:
People who worked for Jenny Crowe-Innes 10 years ago knew that there were times when they could find her lying in pain on the floor with a migraine headache.
"Usually I would just lay there on my office floor until someone came in to either take me home or to the emergency room," recalled Ms. Crowe-Innes, who owns an executive search company near San Francisco. 
 The incapacitating attacks eased five years ago, after a neurologist suggested that Ms. Crowe-Innes try a new class of migraine drugs known as triptans. They work faster and are more effective than existing migraine medications. Ms. Crowe-Innes takes Imitrex, the leading triptan, which works so well and so fast -- usually within 20 minutes -- that she does not mind paying some $73 for a two-dose shot. Imitrex is made by Glaxo Wellcome.
"Once you've experienced that pain, you'd pay almost anything for something to relieve it," she said.
After going for decades with few available migraine drugs, the 25 million Americans who suffer these monster headaches now have a wide choice of new remedies. Three additional triptans have been introduced within the last year -- Glaxo Wellcome's Amerge, Maxalt from Merck & Company and Zomig from Zeneca Pharmaceuticals -- with Pfizer set to release yet another in 1999.
The new drugs are staking out a potentially huge market, one that Cowen & Company estimates will grow to $3.5 billion from $1.6 billion in the next three years. Such growth would not be all that surprising: slightly less than half of all migraine sufferers in the United States have seen a doctor in the last year and pain relievers are very popular drugs.
Indeed, doctors say that few benign conditions are as debilitating as a migraine, further raising drug makers' hopes that their remedies could not miss. At the same time, some pharmaceutical companies are spending freely on consumer advertising for the new drugs, a strategy that has previously created much larger markets for other drugs in a matter of weeks.
Yet sales of migraine drugs have so far not lived up to expectations. Triptan sales are expected to rise only 15 percent to 20 percent next year, after soaring 72 percent in 1996 and 27 percent through September, according to I.M.S. Health, an industry consultant. Sales growth has been stalled by a glut of free triptan samples that have temporarily replaced new prescriptions and by a similarity in effectiveness among the new drugs.
"The pharmaceutical companies were completely misguided when it came to migraine drugs," said Dr. Neil Raskin, a professor of neurology at the University of California at San Francisco. "They thought they could expand the market, but that hasn't happened."
More important, many consumers -- and even some doctors, drug makers say -- do not fully understand what a migraine is, and proper treatment is not sought as a result.
People who have never suffered a migraine sometimes dismiss them as a persistent headache. But a migraine is an excruciatingly painful headache that often leaves its victims almost completely debilitated. Along with a headache, migraine sufferers often feel nauseated and weak, and frequently experience an acute sensitivity to light.
While migraines usually begin gradually, they are sometimes set off by food -- notably red wine, cheese or chocolate -- and frequently accompany a change in the body's hormones, causing women to experience them three times as frequently as men.
Most migraine sufferers have typically mistaken the pain as a sinus headache and have used over-the-counter medications to ease the other symptoms. Rarely does that work, leaving some people to suffer for days before the pain finally passes.
"One of our biggest goals is to educate patients on how to delineate a migraine headache from a common headache," said Stephen O'Quinn, senior clinical program director for migraines at Glaxo Wellcome. "Patients have to be able to recognize that they have a migraine and need prescription medication. They have to understand that migraine headaches are a disease."
To educate patients and doctors about migraines, Merck, Zeneca and Glaxo Wellcome have begun marketing blitzes. Turn on any television channel, and chances are that there will be a commercial for Imitrex or Zomig or an ad for no specific brand that illustrates a migraine's symptoms.
Even with a nearly 83 percent share of the migraine drug market in the United States, Glaxo Wellcome has spent $28.6 million -- 58 percent of industry's total expenditures for consumer migraine ads -- to expand the brand's sales, according to Competitive Media Reporting.
To make its Zomig brand a contender, Zeneca has spent some $20.4 million through August to promote the brand, roughly 39 percent of the drug's sales through that period. The ads have paid dividends: Zomig has picked up 6.6 percent of market share -- largely at Glaxo Wellcome's expense -- since its introduction last January.
Merck, meanwhile, has yet to spend a nickel on consumer ads to promote Maxalt, and has no plans to start, according to company executives. Instead, the company has flooded doctors' offices with brochures and tapes, hoping to educate physicians about migraines and the benefits of Maxalt's dissolvable tablet.
Merck's strategy may deliver the most results, analysts said, given that until most people -- including many of the country's primary care physicians -- understand what a migraine is, the majority of cases will remain untreated.
The drug makers' consumer ads have indeed prodded some migraine sufferers to see their doctors, but some patients have been notoriously stubborn. Doctors say that many of these people had parents who suffered from migraines and insist on following their example by locking themselves in a dark room until the headache stops.
"One reason why more people don't seek medical help is because migraines are episodic," said Dr. Richard Lipton, a neurologist at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York. "When the pain subsides, many sufferers believe that's the last migraine headache that they will ever have. They don't seek treatment until they need it."
Patients who do arrive at their doctor's offices may encounter another obstacle to treatment. Unable to recognize a migraine headache's textbook symptoms, some doctors often order a barrage of invasive tests and scans to rule out such medical horrors as cancer or brain tumors, drug companies say. Patients often abandon the treatment before a correct diagnosis for migraine can be made.
"Some physicians will want to make sure that the cause of the headache is not organic," said Gerardo Torres, the associate medical director for Zeneca Pharmaceuticals. "But doctors who are not well trained may do unnecessary tests. The management of migraines is not taught in most residencies."
To expand the migraine market, the triptan makers need to revamp their marketing strategies, some industry analysts argue.
Consider the ads for Zomig and Imitrex. The consumer ad campaigns for both drugs portray a woman grimacing with her hand to her head -- Madison Avenue's universal symbol for headache -- only to be replaced by an image of the same women, vibrant and vital, after she has taken one of their migraine pills.
While the ads may convince some people, they are just as likely to confuse as help. Analysts contend that the entire slant to these campaigns should be scrapped, beginning with the word "migraine," a clinical term that some people will never fully understand.
"The market should expand, but migraine should be repositioned as superheadache," said David Saks, a managing director at Gruntal & Company. "There's no question the condition is undertreated, but people need to be told to take these medications when the headache begins to stress possible prevention. People have traditionally been more than willing to pay money to relieve pain."
As the drug makers try to educate the public on the migraine, the competition for the market has begun to grow nasty. Most neurologists say that there is little difference in efficacy between the triptans, but that has not stopped the drug makers from pointing some out.
Ask any Glaxo Wellcome sales representative about Imitrex or Amerge and expect to get an earful. Not only does Imitrex, in its injection form, relieve some migraines within 10 minutes -- the fastest of any triptans -- Amerge remains in the bloodstream for more than six hours to prevent additional attacks. The other triptans remain in the bloodstream for only two to four hours.
A potential drawback with the Imitrex injection is that it costs $73 wholesale for a two-dose shot. The Glaxo Wellcome sales representative will not volunteer that information, but the Merck representative probably will. Maxalt costs $11.25 wholesale a tablet, the lowest of its competitors.
Side effects are also a potential problem, and include lack of energy, nausea, dizziness or tightness in the chest or throat.
Realizing that the efficacy among the triptans is relatively close, the drug makers have provided several methods of taking their drugs. Usually, how a drug can be taken is merely an added convenience to consumers, but with migraines it has fast become a volatile marketing point.
One big advantage Merck has pushed is Maxalt-MLT, a wafer that dissolves in a patient's mouth without water. Glaxo Wellcome offers Imitrex as a shot, nasal spray and tablet. Zeneca will soon offer Zomig in a wafer and nasal spray.
"Patients want relief from migraine pain right away," said Deryk David, executive director of marketing for Maxalt in the United States. "It's for convenience. If you get a migraine in traffic, you can take it without water."
Merck may be proud of Maxalt-MLT, but it has not received much respect from Glaxo Wellcome.
"That whole idea of being able to take medicine without water is for marketing," said David Cory, the director of marketing for migraine products at Glaxo Wellcome. "Well, we have a nasal spray that doesn't need water, either."
Even though triptan sales have slowed, the drug makers are confident that the market will pick up. Already, pharmaceutical executives may be ready to switch their ad campaigns. Glaxo Wellcome and Zeneca are both exploring the use of celebrities to promote their migraine drugs in commercials.
Most migraine sufferers who have tried the triptans have quickly become loyal to their particular brand, doctors say. Given Glaxo Wellcome's stranglehold on the migraine market, it is unlikely that any company will be able to upend its dominant share. But doctors do see a need for several triptans on the market.
"Some migraine sufferers couldn't take any of the other medications," Dr. Raskin, the neurology professor, said. "With the triptans, they usually find one that will work for them. The trouble is that all the drug makers decided to stay in a narrow channel. As long as they keep putting out these look-a-likes, we'll never have drugs that are 100 percent or even 90 percent successful."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Drugs known as triptans can often relieve migraines in less than 20 minutes. (Oscar Burriel/Science Source/Photo Researchers)
 
Chart: "A New Hope for Migraines"
As many as 25 million Americans suffer from migraines and drug companies hope to cash in on a new and sometimes expensive remedy known as triptans that can cost some $73 for two doses in the case of Imitrex.
(Source: IMS Health)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (91%); MRK (NYSE) (91%); COWN (NASDAQ) (82%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (91%); COWEN GROUP INC (82%); PFIZER INC (58%); ZENECA PHARMACEUTICALS (54%); IMS HEALTH INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HEADACHES; TRIPTANS (DRUGS); ADVERTISING; MIGRAINE HEADACHES; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); SALES PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); ANALGESICS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); NEUROSCIENCE (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (75%); SALES PROJECTIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: MORROW, DAVID J

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998



619 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Optimism on Low Inflation Sends Treasuries Markedly Higher

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Bond prices posted their biggest gain in four weeks yesterday as month-high yields and expectations for low inflation in 1999 attracted buyers.
"The inflation outlook is still very benign," said Patrick Retzer, who helps oversee $4 billion at Heartland Advisers in Milwaukee. 
 The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose a full point, to 101 18/32 . The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 5.15 percent from 5.21 percent on Thursday. That is the first rise in more than a week and the biggest gain since Nov. 30. The yield on two-year notes, the most actively traded Treasuries, fell to 4.68 percent.
Bond yields rose last week to the highest levels since Nov. 24 as expectations faded for more Federal Reserve cuts in interest rates.
The minutes of the Fed's Nov. 17 policy meeting, released last week, showed that officials were no longer leaning toward rate reductions. The Fed had already cut its target for overnight loans between banks -- the Federal funds rate -- to 4.75 percent in three quarter-point moves beginning Sept. 29.
Yet bond yields climbed enough to lure buyers yesterday, especially because inflation -- which erodes the value of debt instruments -- is so subdued. The Consumer Price Index rose 1.5 percent in the 12 months through November, on track this year to post its smallest gain in 12 years.
"The good news is the continued utterly benign inflation outlook," which will help bonds, said Patrick Dimick, an analyst with Warburg Dillon Read in Stamford, Conn.
Thirty-year Treasuries have returned 17.7 percent this year, while 10-year notes have risen 12.6 percent, based on price gains and reinvested interest payments. Those are the highest returns since 1995, when bonds climbed 34.7 percent. By comparison, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen 16.67 percent so far this year.
Adding to bonds' strength, the first Federal budget surplus in almost three decades, for the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, means the Government will not need to sell as much debt to pay its bills. That is another plus for Treasuries because investors will be competing for fewer securities.
The Treasury Department reduced its monthly two-year note sale, set for today, by $1 billion, to $15 billion.
Still, this particular auction might not draw as much bidding because so many investors are away from their desks during the holiday period. The bond market is scheduled to close early on Thursday and remain closed Friday for New Year's Day.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills.
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.857	97.712	High Rate	4.52%	4.52%	Coupon Yield	4.63%	4.69%	Low Rate	4.48%	4.48%	Median Rate	4.51%	4.52%	Total applied for	$29,399,564	$30,842,787	Accepted	$11,469,964	$11,051,287	Noncompetitive	$1,174,736	$980,967	
 
Both issues are dated Dec. 31, 1998. The three-month bills mature on April 1, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on July 1, 1999.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (91%); WISCONSIN, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (94%); BOND MARKETS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BUDGETS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998



620 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: Denver Stands Out in Mini-Trend Toward Downtown Living

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: DENVER, Dec. 28

 BODY:
From her fifth-floor apartment in a freshly converted flour mill, Dana Crawford surveyed the abandoned railroad yards at the core of downtown Denver and envisioned lofts and more lofts.
As carpenters built 350 apartments and bulldozers opened utility trenches for 3,500 more, Ms. Crawford, a developer, waved to a cluster of vacant red-brick warehouses near the freight tracks and predicted, "All these warehouse buildings will be turned into lofts." 
 Within a mile of Union Station, Denver's Beaux-Arts historic core, the city is halfway through a decade-long downtown investment of $1 billion in three sport stadiums, an aquarium and urban shopping complexes. Following retail and entertainment development, downtown is now embarking on $1 billion in residential construction. A total of 1,334 apartments are being built or converted downtown, more than the total of the last four years.
Denver's move toward downtown living is part of a national trend, according to a new study of 24 large American cities by the Brookings Institution and the Fannie Mae Foundation research groups. In a reversal of a trend that started after World War II, each city forecast growth in the number of people living downtown.
By 2010, the study reported, downtown populations are expected to quadruple in Houston, to 9,500 people, to more than triple in Cleveland, to 21,000, and to nearly triple in Denver, to 9,250. Growth is also expected in larger cities, with Chicago's downtown population forecast to increase by a third, to 152,000.
But the migration is especially striking in Denver, a sprawling city of houses and low-rise buildings.
"Denver fits the pattern of a Western automobile city, so for a Sun Belt city, what is happening here is very inspiring," said Brad Segal, an urban consultant who is on the board of the International Downtown Association, an organization of city planners specializing in downtowns. Noting that delegations from cities as diverse as Albuquerque, N.M., and Baltimore have recently toured downtown Denver to get ideas, Mr. Segal added, "Most of the cities I work in want to be like Denver."
Planners caution that the move downtown, here and elsewhere, is a mini-trend in the face of continuing suburban expansion. Indeed, while the city of Denver's population grew by 2 percent, or 12,000 people, since 1980, to about 500,000 people, its suburbs grew by a third in the same time, adding 505,000 people.
But looking ahead, Mr. Segal and other urbanists believe that demographics and accumulated wealth are pointing to radical transformations in American downtowns in the coming decades. Virtually none of the people moving into downtown Denver have children living at home. They are singles, childless couples or older people, the "empty nesters" whose children have left home for college and careers.
By 2010, 72 percent of American households will not have children at home, said Dao Nguyen, a research analyst who helped prepare the Brookings study, who added, "That could be a boon for cities."
In Colorado, the fastest-growing population segment in coming years is forecast to be households of people 54 years old and over.
"The baby boomers' watermelon is going through the demographic snake," Mr. Segal said, "but there is also this watermelon of wealth."
In addition to the continuing transfer of wealth from the World War II generation to the baby boomers, a new change in taxes is expected to help "empty nesters" cash out of the suburbs. Last year, a change in Federal tax laws raised to $500,000 from $125,000 the portion of earnings from the sale of a primary residence that is free of a capital gains tax.
"An older couple can put half the money in a downtown apartment, and save the rest for travel or a second residence," said Larry R. Grace of the Trillium Corporation, a major downtown developer here.
Banking on this phenomenon, developers for Trillium plan to break ground next year on 700 apartments, the first of as many as 4,000 that are to be built over the next decade on 50 acres behind Union Station.
The apartment demand is there. A recent survey of a sample of the 110,000 people who work in downtown Denver found that 60 percent of those surveyed were interested in living downtown. Waiting lists immediately form when renovation projects are announced under a city program to provide downtown apartments at rents affordable for working-class and middle-class people.
On the free market, prices have soared. In one decade, Lower Downtown has been transformed from skid row to LoDo, a chic neighborhood that is Denver's second-most-expensive housing market.
"I wanted to get $3,000-a-month rent," Mike McPhee said of renting his 1,900-square-foot LoDo apartment earlier this year when he moved to a smaller place. "The real estate agent brought in five different guys, none of whom had any trouble with that kind of rent."
Mr. McPhee's price was $19 a square foot a year. In 1987, John Hickenlooper, a downtown pioneer, rented commercial space in an adjacent building for $1 a square foot a year. Sales prices for finished LoDo lofts have jumped from $82 a square foot in 1990, when Mrs. Crawford renovated the first loft here, to $300 a square foot on some of the higher-priced lofts.
In a sign of the neighborhood's cachet, the new residents include Leo Kiely, president of the Coors Brewing Company, and David Bailey, president of Norwest Bank of Colorado. Frederick Mayer, who made his fortune in oil and gas in the early 1980's, just completed building a multimillion-dollar town house.
"When someone can live anywhere they want, and they choose to live in Lower Downtown, it's a statement about how the city is changing," said Jim Olson, the Seattle architect for Mr. Mayer's town house.
LoDo's runaway appeal comes from a constellation of factors: declining urban crime, rising congestion of suburbs, a powerful regional economy, and a host of entertainment venues within walking distance, including dozens of new restaurants, a 9,300-seat theater complex, a new baseball stadium for the Colorado Rockies, a new football stadium for the Denver Broncos and a basketball and hockey stadium for the Nuggets and the Avalanche.
Crime, long a barrier to older people's moving into city centers, has dropped in Denver, as in much of the rest of the nation. Here it declined 25 percent in the last five years.
"This is one of the safest police districts in Denver," said Peggy Houser, who was out on a recent evening with her husband, John, a retired businessman, to watch the lighting of Union Station for Christmas. "It is a real neighborhood."
As highway commuting distances lengthen, some Denverites dream of the walkable city.
"We just got rid of one car," said Larry Kravetz, the owner of a small securities firm, who now walks from his new loft to his office, five blocks away. "We feel like we are on vacation the whole time."
Mr. Kravetz, who moved his family to LoDo this summer from a southern Denver suburb, sounded a note increasingly heard here, describing the suburbs as "sterile."
Six blocks from his loft, Joyce Meskis, owner of the Tattered Cover bookstore, agreed, saying, "A city's soul activities -- the art center, the theaters, the museums, the main library -- all of that usually centers around the urban core."
For example, a LoDo resident could choose one recent week from among these activities, all within walking distance: book signings by three authors at the Tattered Cover, a performance of the musical "Rent" by a touring Broadway cast at the Denver Center for the Performing Arts, a performance of "The Nutcracker" by the Colorado Ballet and "600 Years of British Painting," at the Denver Art Museum.
Last month, Pavilions, a $107 million shopping and entertainment complex, opened on the 16th Street pedestrian mall downtown. Covering two blocks, it offers 40 shops, 15 movie screens and dining at the Hard Rock Cafe and Wolfgang Puck.
LoDo has emerged as the city's gallery and restaurant center, with 18 galleries and about 100 bars and restaurants.
Offering variety and sophistication, downtown Denver increasingly promotes itself as a stimulating antidote to the suburbs. A new advertisement for a loft development cajoles, "Kiss the 'burbs g'bye."
"LoDo has legitimacy, it has currency, it can't be cloned in the suburbs," said Gerald Erlich, a veteran LoDo real estate broker.
Redolent with history, this neighborhood of three- and four-story red-brick buildings was built on the site of Denver's first gold rush settlement, 140 years ago. LoDo's transformation has been helped by Colorado's economic boom. Through August, the state ranked third in the nation, after Nevada and Arizona, in the number of residential housing permits issued in proportion to population. Fueled in part by high-tech expansion, the office vacancy rate in downtown Denver has plummeted to 7.5 percent today from 30 percent a decade ago.
While metropolitan Denver's unemployment rate has dropped to 2.8 percent, not all boats have been raised. With gentrification, the adult homeless population in LoDo has shifted a few blocks to the north.
David DeForest-Stalls, director of the Spot, an alcohol- and drug-free center for streets youths and runaways, said young people increasingly know they are not always welcome downtown. And he criticized the heavy concentration of bars in LoDo.
But Tom Noel, a Colorado historian who has studied Denver's entertainment habits, past and present, said the situation was nothing new.
Noting that tourists now came from Wyoming and Kansas to visit LoDo, he added, "It's going back to the old idea of Denver as the drinking capital for the hinterland."
Downtown Denver, Mr. Noel said, is simply returning to its roots: as a noisy, sometimes raucous, people-filled urban village.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the transformation of the Lower Downtown area of Denver, known as LoDo, buildings are being converted into popular, and pricey, lofts. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (98%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (98%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER (COLO); UNITED STATES (98%); COLORADO, USA (98%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (98%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; HOUSING CITY LIFE (92%); CITIES (92%); TRENDS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CHILDREN (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (76%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%); SUBURBS (69%); EMPTY NESTERS (60%); WORLD WAR II (52%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES BRAD SEGAL (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998



621 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2380 words

HEADLINE: A Racial Divide Widens on Network TV

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 28

 BODY:
Last year "Seinfeld," the top-rated television show in white households, ranked 50th in African-American homes, according to Nielsen Media Research, while the comedy "Between Brothers," No. 1 in black households, ranked 112th among whites.
Similarly, according to Nielsen, in the first two months of the current prime-time season, "The Steve Harvey Show," a comedy, ranked No. 1 in black households, but 118th in white households, while "Friends," the No. 1 comedy and No. 2 show overall in white households, ranked just 91st for blacks. 
 Prime-time television has rarely been as racially divided as it is today, in terms of both casts and audiences, a fact most strikingly true in network television's dominant form of entertainment, comedy. Networks, under enormous pressure to maximize dwindling profits, have been focusing on the more numerous and generally more affluent white households that advertisers prefer. Because whites rarely watch shows, particularly sitcoms, with largely black casts, the networks broadcast relatively few with black or even integrated casts in prime time, the three-hour block from 8 to 11 P.M. that is the most lucrative and competitive portion of television programming. Given the growing popularity of cable, the four major networks, ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC, plus the upstarts, WB and UPN, have seen their share of overall viewers reduced to less than 60 percent. But cable's audience is fragmented by dozens of channels, and the networks still reach the largest audiences by far, making their viewing patterns an important reflection of popular attitudes.
The growing racial divide reverses a trend toward greater integration of actors and toward the production of more crossover shows in the 70's and 80's, when path-breaking series with heavily black casts like "Good Times" and "The Cosby Show" achieved great popularity. In addition, many of the current shows featuring blacks are increasingly bunched together and segregated from the rest of the prime-time schedule.
This has led to bitter feelings among many black producers, writers and actors, who say they are often asked to make their shows less overtly black in a largely vain effort to attract white viewers. These requests often take the form of demands to "broaden the appeal" of the shows, code for adding more white characters.
"There is always a concerted effort by white executives to place white faces on black shows," said Steve Harvey, whose show is on the WB network. "We have had to place white faces on our show this year. We didn't ask for it. It came down on us. We happen to like those characters, and they've worked out well. But how often do you find it going the other way? There's never an expectation that a white show needs a few more black faces."
(Of course, members of other minority groups, including Hispanics and Asian-Americans, have complained that they are underrepresented on prime time. Blacks have been fighting for representation the longest, while there are now a growing number of Spanish-language programs aimed at Hispanics, as well as the black-oriented cable channel, BET.)
 
The Role of TV Executives
Running a Business, Not Fixing Society
As much as they might prefer a different dynamic, a number of television executives, all white, said they were business people, not social reformers, and they maintained that there was generally little resistance from audiences to the trend of racial polarization, and thus little incentive to fight it.
"I don't think anybody's crying out for integrated shows," said Sandy Grushow, the president of 20th Century Fox Television, which produces shows for several networks. "By pursuing advertisers and demographics rather than a mass audience, the networks have declared they don't need blacks in their audience."
Some network executives say they have tried to change the situation, citing examples like "The Hughleys," a new ABC sitcom about a black family that moves from the inner city to a white suburb; "The Gregory Hines Show," which ran on CBS last year but failed, and Fox's "Getting Personal," a show with an integrated cast, which was also unable to find an audience. And the executives point out that the record is not so bad in some programming categories. Among one-hour dramas, for instance, popular shows like "Homicide," "N.Y.P.D. Blue," "Touched by an Angel" and "E.R." have prominent black characters.
But comedies account for roughly three-quarters of prime-time fare, and the racial divide is most evident on these shows. "The Steve Harvey Show," for instance, was watched by about 2 million black households in the first two months of this season, 17 percent of the total for blacks, but 923,000 white households, 1.1 percent of white homes.
Some experts say the situation reflects reality for most Americans: dramas frequently involve the workplace, where integration has become more prevalent, while comedies often focus on home life, which is more segregated.
Still, the divide has perplexed many within the industry.
"I am not a sociologist, so I don't know what it indicates," said Jamie Tarses, the president of ABC Entertainment. But she added: "In the business I'm in, what we're trying to do, it makes sense for us to reach as wide a place as we can. We're not trying to reach a niche audience."
Many blacks in television argue, however, that more shows would cross the racial divide if marketed more aggressively.
"The networks assume white America is much more racist than they've been proven to be in other areas," said Ralph Farquhar, a producer of shows like "Moesha," "South Central" and "The Sinbad Show," all part of a new generation of black shows introduced in the last decade. "How do you explain the popularity of the N.B.A. or rap music? There's crossover if there's an effort to create the exposure. It's a marketing problem. But they don't want to do that. So there's a chitlin circuit on TV."
The problem was highlighted in Hollywood last summer in a much-discussed incident involving the comedian Dave Chappelle and his producer, Peter Tolan, an Emmy award winner, who were finishing a sitcom for Fox. The pilot had Mr. Chappelle, who is black, appearing at the Apollo Theater in Harlem on amateur night. Fox executives called a meeting and said that though they liked the show, they wondered if there wasn't some way to "broaden its appeal."
It was a chilling moment for Mr. Chappelle and Mr. Tolan, who took that to mean adding more white actors. Peter Roth, then the president of the Fox network, later acknowledged the request but said it was among several things he asked for, and not "simply about inserting white faces into the show." Still, Mr. Tolan and Mr. Chappelle refused, and the project was killed.
Meanwhile, the networks' prime-time schedules have been criticized for the lack of diversity in their casts. The most successful lineup on television, NBC's Thursday night lineup, is overwhelmingly white.
"You can't be a Top 10 show without a lot of white people watching your show," said Andy Borowitz, an executive producer of "Fresh Prince of Bel Air," a popular show, now off the air, that starred Will Smith. He said had he had faced relentless pressure to add white members to its heavily black cast. "The knee-jerk response at the network was, maybe we need more cast members on the show. They never said white, but, curiously, all the characters they proposed were white. They believed a white audience wouldn't watch a black show."
 
A Tough Sell
A Limited Appeal For Black Shows
 Doug Alligood is a senior vice president for special markets at BBDO New York, the advertising agency, and a student of white and black viewing patterns. "It is definitely more difficult in prime time to bring whites to black shows than it is to bring blacks to white shows," he said. "A show doesn't stand a chance once it's labeled a black show. The fact is, fewer and fewer shows cross over each year."
It has not always been this way. In the 70's and 80's there were a growing number of popular and critically acclaimed shows, especially comedies, with largely black or multiracial casts and very mixed audiences. The list included shows like "All in the Family," "The Jeffersons," "Sanford and Son," "Maude," "Good Times" and later "The Cosby Show," "A Different World" and "Diff'rent Strokes." These shows, while reflecting some aspects of black culture, deliberately set out to appeal to a broad, racially mixed audience.
That tradition continues in many kinds of television programming today, like sports, where athletes, announcers and audiences cross racial barriers. Children's programming routinely tends to include cast members of several races and attracts mixed audiences.
But prime time seems to be different. In the first two months of the television season, only three shows, none of them comedies, ranked in the Top 10 for both white and black households, "N.F.L. Monday Night Football," "Touched by an Angel" and "CBS Sunday Movie."
Norman Lear, the producer of some of the earlier breakthrough shows, including "All in the Family" and "The Jeffersons," pointed to fierce competition from cable channels and dwindling network profits as a reason.
"It's all about short-term results; it's all about the bottom line in a way it wasn't before," Mr. Lear said. "But there are no villains, I don't think. Nobody elected for things to go this way. It's grown up around us, and the networks feel they have to live with it."
The modern worlds of black and white prime time began in the late 1980's, when upstart Fox pursued black audiences because there was far less competition in that niche from the major networks. Fox produced shows that delved into black street and youth culture, attracting a new generation of black writers, producers and actors. Many of them then made similar shows for WB and UPN, which at first followed the same strategy.
But now that they have a foothold, these three networks have all begun to focus on the more affluent and larger white audience. WB, which carries the greatest number of shows with black casts, has placed nearly all of them in one Thursday lineup. UPN is about to put most of its black shows together on Tuesday.
Garth Ancier, president of entertainment for WB, said the black-oriented comedies appeared to fare poorly when sprinkled throughout the schedule, in part because whites were not tuning in.
"That lack of crossover is one of the more confusing things going on right now, and it's troubling," Mr. Ancier said. "I hope that by doing segregated blocks, we haven't enhanced that."
Ms. Tarses of ABC said her network was trying to fight the trend, within bounds. It consciously developed "The Hughleys" for that reason, she said. "We wanted an African-American show on the air."
Many black producers hold out marketing as the answer.
While arguing that "we should have shows that revel in our own culture, definitely," Yvette Lee Bowser, a producer who created "Living Single," formerly on Fox, and "For Your Love," on WB, said such shows could still be open to a larger audience. "I think we should not be so narrow-minded as to think that no one from a different race should watch those shows, or that they should be marketed just to that one group. This industry should not make the assumption that because a show has a black cast it is only for black people, but they do."
While a number of black producers pointed out that black music frequently reached a crossover audience, several television executives said differing economics made it more difficult for black shows to do the same and reap profits. Ted Harbert, the former chairman of ABC Entertainment and now a producer, said that, compared with record albums, television shows cost too much to survive without a very broad audience. A sitcom can cost upward of $500,000 an episode, while records rarely cost that much to produce.
"Shows that have no crossover appeal cost just as much as a show that does," Mr. Harbert said.
Dean Valentine, the president of UPN, said he was shifting his network's focus away from black shows because of these economic realities.
"There had been a predominantly black focus here," he said. "There was a very strong belief that it was an audience that was underserved in terms of programming. As in any business you want to go where there's an underserved audience. But I believe you have to broadcast, not narrowcast."
 
Cultivating Crossover
From Caricatures To 'Cosby'
 Television's portrayal of blacks has had its ups and downs, from stereotype-laden comedies like "Amos 'n' Andy" to advances like the late-60's series "Julia," starring Diahann Carroll. It seemed to have reached a new stage in 1984 with the premiere of "The Cosby Show," on NBC. The show, about a family of black professionals, the Huxtables, ran successfully for eight years, attracting a multiracial audience, often topping the ratings and spawning another successful show, "A Different World," about the Huxtables' daughter, going to college and rooming with a white woman.
"The Cosby Show" was criticized in some quarters for depicting a nonrepresentative upper-middle-class family, but others argued that it exhibited positive values widely held in the black community that were too often overlooked on television. (Mr. Cosby and his co-star, Phylicia Rashad, are now in a CBS sitcom, called simply "Cosby," in which they play a working-class couple.)
But many blacks feel that the beachhead established by "The Cosby Show" has been lost.
"It seemed to me that when the show ended, the entertainment industry, television in particular, pretended it had never happened," Ms. Rashad said.
Susan Fales-Hill, the executive producer of "A Different World," said her show reflected a different era. "There was a kind of freedom that existed then that doesn't exist on the networks now," said Ms. Fales-Hill, whose new show, "Linc's," about a black bar in Washington, is on on the Showtime cable channel.
Her old show addressed difficult issues like racism, the Los Angeles riots, AIDS and perceived bias in the media, she pointed out. "If I pitched that show today, I'd be laughed out of the room," she said. "It's a different time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: ABC added "The Hughleys" to its prime-time lineup on Tuesdays to increase its representation of blacks. The new sitcom chronicles a black family that has moved from the inner city to a predominantly white suburb. (Jerry Fitzgerald/ABC)(pg. A12)
 
Chart/Photos:
TOP SHOWS AMONG BLACKS*
 
* Steve Harvey Show (Photo by WB Network)
NETWORK: WB
Ranking among whites: 118
 
* Jamie Foxx Show
NETWORK: WB
Ranking among whites: 124
 
Monday Night Football
NETWORK: ABC
Ranking among whites: 7
 
* For Your Love
NETWORK: WB
Ranking among whites: 118
 
CBS Sunday Movie
NETWORK: CBS
Ranking among whites: 10
 
TOP SHOWS AMONG WHITES*
 
E.R.
NETWORK: NBC
Ranking among blacks: 15
 
* Friends (Photo by NBC)
NETWORK: NBC
Ranking among blacks: 91
 
* Frasier
NETWORK: NBC
Ranking among blacks: 93
 
* Jesse
NETWORK: NBC
Ranking among blacks: 106
 
* Veronica's Closet
NETWORK: NBC
Ranking among blacks: 84
 
* Comedies
 
Based on Nielsen ratings from Sept. 21 to Nov. 29
(pg. A1)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BLACKS; TELEVISION AND RADIO PROGRAMMING TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (95%); NETWORK TELEVISION (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (91%); RANKINGS (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES STEVE HARVEY (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998



622 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Preliminary Reports Show Brisk Sales on Internet
The first reports on holiday sales for Internet retailers showed results that surpassed even what earlier this month had seemed to be hyped-up preseason predictions. The increases came despite glitches that forced consumers to suffer indignities like access denial to Web sites and despite holiday gifts that did not arrive on time as promised.
The figures are preliminary, and even the most optimistic prediction would be far less than 1 percent of the $2.6 trillion in retail sales in the United States for the year, leading many analysts to remain skeptical about the wave of euphoria generated by the data. Page A1. 

Internet Stocks Surge, Too
The burgeoning use of the World Wide Web for shopping and stock trading lifted shares of Internet-related companies. The Nasdaq composite index, which is heavily weighted toward technology stocks, rose 17.27 points, or eight-tenths of a percent, to 2,180.30, its fourth record in six sessions. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 8.76 points, to 9,226.75, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell eight-tenths of a point, to 1,225.49. C6.
 
Prices of Treasuries Rebound
Bond prices posted their biggest gain in four weeks as month-high yields and expectations for low inflation in 1999 attracted buyers. The yield of the benchmark 30-year bond fell to 5.15 percent from 5.21 percent on Thursday. C6.
 
Social Security Cleared for 2000
President Clinton called the Year 2000 challenge "a stunning problem" for computer programmers but said the Social Security Administration had fixed its computers so that elderly people would receive their monthly benefits without interruption in 2000. He did not address the situation at other agencies judged by the White House to be inadequately prepared for the year 2000, including the Pentagon, the Energy Department and the agency that runs Medicare and Medicaid. A14.
 
Sick Calls Cost T.W.A. Millions
Trans World Airlines flight attendants who called in sick over the holiday weekend caused widespread flight cancellations, the airline said, which cost the company millions of dollars. T.W.A. said yesterday that service was returning to normal. A13.
 
RCN to Combine On-Line Operations
RCN, which provides telecommunications services in the Northeastern United States, said it would combine its four Internet service operations into a single concern under the common brand name RCN.com. Shares of the company rose $7.25, or 54 percent, to $20.625, on the Nasdaq market. C2.
 
South Korea Punishes LG Semicon
Underscoring its determination to reorganize the nation's biggest conglomerates, the South Korean Government stopped banks from extending new loans to LG Semicon, punishing it for rejecting a proposal to give Hyundai Electronics control of their merged computer chip businesses. South Korea's president, Kim Dae Jung, will watch closely to see whether LG Semicon lives up to its promise, a Government spokesman said. C4.
 
Group Makes Pitch for Local TV
The Television Bureau of Advertising is making a large effort to promote the benefits of running commercials locally instead of nationally. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C2.
 
Deeper Cuts at Oil-Service Giant
Halliburton, which announced 8,100 layoffs earlier this year, plans to lay off an additional 2,750 employees because of the effect of low oil prices on exploration. C18.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,226.75 up 8.76
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.15% down 0.06
The Dollar -- 115.90 yen down 0.39

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: HY9H (FRA) (81%); 000660 (KSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SK HYNIX INC (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); NORTHEAST USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); SOCIAL SECURITY (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); MEDICAID (70%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); MEDICARE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); AIRLINES (66%); COMPUTER CHIPS (64%); AGING (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (63%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (61%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998



623 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Win One, Lose One For True North Unit

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
It was win one, lose one for the New York office of Foote, Cone & Belding, a unit of True North Communications, as the agency gained an assignment from a client while losing another.
Foote, Cone was selected by the Kraft Foods unit of the Philip Morris Companies to develop advertising for its joint venture with the Starbucks Coffee Company, to distribute a line of Starbucks brand grocery products in supermarkets. Billings have not been determined. 
 Mary Jane Kinkade, a spokeswoman for Kraft in Rye Brook, N.Y., confirmed reports of the assignment in Advertising Age and Adweek. The FCB Direct unit of Foote, Cone handles another coffee brand for Kraft Foods, Gevelia Kaffee. Starbucks recently named Fallon McElligott in Minneapolis as its agency.
On the debit side, Lucent Technologies eliminated Foote, Cone from its roster by consolidating its account at McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising in New York. McCann adds trade ads and other assignments from Foote, Cone, with billings estimated at $10 million to $15 million, to corporate and other assignments with billings estimated at $60 million.
"We have tremendous regard for Foote, Cone," said Kathy Fitzgerald, senior vice president for public relations, advertising and investor relations at Lucent in Murray Hill, N.J., who confirmed a report about the consolidation in Advertising Age. "This was a basic, simple consolidation for economy and efficiency."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (92%); SBUX (NASDAQ) (85%); MO (NYSE) (84%); ALU (PAR) (83%); ALU (NYSE) (83%); ALU (BIT) (83%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (85%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (83%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (69%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC; KRAFT FOODS; FOOTE CONE & BELDING; STARBUCKS COFFEE CO; LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES; MCCANN-ERICKSON WORLDWIDE INC INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); STARBUCKS CORP (85%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (84%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (83%); DRAFTFCB INC (58%); TAPSA AGENCIA DE PUBLICIDAD SL (58%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); MCCANN-ERICKSON WORLDWIDE INC (56%); FALLON MCELLIGOTT (56%); NEW YORK (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC; KRAFT FOODS; FOOTE CONE & BELDING; STARBUCKS COFFEE CO; LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES; MCCANN-ERICKSON WORLDWIDE INC NEW YORK (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (69%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ACCOUNT CHANGES; ADVERTISING; FOOD FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); FOOD MFG (77%); COFFEE (76%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998



624 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Italian Industries and Utilities Seek to Spin Off Property Holdings

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: ROME, Dec. 28

 BODY:
Several of Italy's biggest companies have said in recent months that they are considering spinoffs or other separation of large chunks of their real estate holdings to increase profit and returns for their investors.
Enel, a state-owned utility, says it is studying how to spin off $3.6 billion in property, which is now managed by a wholly owned subsidiary. 
 Telecom Italia, the national phone carrier, has hired Salomon Smith Barney to help it create one or more subsidiaries to manage $5.4 billion in real estate holdings.
One of Italy's largest banking groups, Banca Intesa S.p.A., a result of a merger between Istituto Bancario San Paolo di Torino and an investment bank, Istituto Mobiliare Italiano, wants to separate $1.6 billion in real estate holdings, either by creating a subsidiary or handing them over to a real estate investment trust.
The trend is even spilling over into Italy's Government holdings. The Defense Ministry recently hired investment bankers to evaluate its real estate; the Government social security agency tendered offers for an evaluation of its assets with a view to improving returns.
All are following a trend set recently by a big insurer, Istituto Nazionale delle Assicurazioni, or I.N.A., which spun off a stake of more than 85 percent in its property arm, Unione Immobiliare, or Unim, in November and listed the shares on the Milan exchange. Unim owns and manages properties in Milan and Rome worth $2.9 billion. I.N.A. says it will divest itself of its remaining 14.6 percent stake in Unim within 18 months.
In a larger sense, the companies are following a European-wide trend. Until now, much of the activity centered on financial service companies like banks and insurers. Since 1996, Sweden's largest bank, SE Banken, spun off a company called Diligentia with $2.2 billion in assets, while a group of Finnish state-owned banks and insurance companies parked real estate assets in a company named Sfonda. The French insurers AXA S.A. and Assurances Generales de France have sold real estate assets to raise capital and reduce exposure to property markets.
Analysts and investment bankers say that following patterns in the United States, a focus on increased profitability and return on assets is pushing companies to examine how they can get greater returns from bulging property portfolios acquired over the years. In addition, companies can use spinoffs to lift their share prices by ridding themselves of poorly performing real estate.
"Bricks used to be the European refuge," said Paola Giannotti de Ponti, head of Italian investment banking at Salomon Smith Barney. "But with markets demanding higher revenue from assets, we are seeing a focus on the capacity to generate returns."
Much of the activity here is a result of the Italian Government's drive in recent years to sell state-owned businesses to private shareholders. These companies, faced with the unaccustomed need to generate greater return on investment, have been hiring investment banks to devise strategies for putting huge real estate holdings to work.
Moreover, as interest rates plunged, pushed down by the need to prepare for the Continent's single currency, the euro, Italian businesses sought to squeeze more competitive yields from real estate holdings and not let such assets languish.
The potential for higher yields arose from a history of poor management. Under past state ownership, valuable properties often housed Government agencies at rents below market level. Vacancies were widespread and, thanks to Government coddling, there was little competitive drive for higher rents or fresh investment.
With the exception of I.N.A., most Italian companies are still in the study stage. Yet experts agree that over the next several years this could be followed by a wave of spinoffs. John Carrafiell, head of real estate in Europe at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, which managed the Unim spinoff, said Italian companies were plowing through a several-stage procedure that involved identifying properties, understanding the alternatives, including property sales, spinning them off to shareholders as separate companies, or parking them in joint ventures. Mr. Carrafiell said most companies "are still in stage one or two, mainly because the information is just not there."
American investment banks, which pioneered real estate investment trusts, are cashing in. In addition to managing the Unim spinoff, Morgan Stanley recently acquired a $155 million portfolio of nonperforming real estate loans from Istituto Bancario San Paolo and is seeking profits by issuing bonds against them.
I.N.A.'s reasons for leading the pack are many, experts say, and among them is that its real estate was already held in a property-management division. But I.N.A. was prompted to take Unim down the stock market path because of its own high capitalization. With the Unim spinoff, I.N.A. shed $2.9 billion in shareholder equity out of $7.5 billion at the end of 1997. Overnight, Unim became the largest listed property company in Italy and the fifth largest in Europe, ranked by market capitalization. I.N.A., for its part, saw its return on equity soar to 7.9 percent from 4.6 percent, and demand for its shares surged.
Some analysts, though, noted a flip side: a relatively low return on equity for Unim, whose share price did not exactly take off after the spinoff, increasing about 6 percent through last week. Still, they say, this could be attributed in part to lukewarm interest from British and American investment funds, whose REIT holdings in the United States have lagged behind the overall market.
James Pierce, an Italy analyst with Fox Pitt Kelton, a London investment bank specializing in banking and insurance, said he thought that the performance of Unim would improve, benefiting from its withdrawal from Government influence and the recruitment of professional managers drawn by the challenge of running an independent company.
Moreover, analysts like Mr. Pierce say that Italy's property market is just now emerging from a protracted recession, with revived building activity and the first signs of rent and value increases since the 1980's. In Milan, the nation's financial capital, office-rental rates had the first increase in 1998 in seven or eight years, though they remain 30 percent below their 1991 peak.
"If you ask whether it's been a success," Mr. Pierce said, "the answer is yes."
 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 1, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about large Italian companies that want to increase profits by reducing their real estate holdings misidentified one, a large bank created in a recent merger of two banks. It is the Istituto Bancario San Paolo di Torino. (Banca Intesa is a holding company for two other banks.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CS (PAR) (84%); AXJ (ASX) (84%); AXA (BIT) (84%); ISP (BIT) (71%); TIT (BIT) (57%); TI (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (71%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (71%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: ITALY (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (92%); TURIN, ITALY (79%); 

COMPANY: ISTITUTO NAZIONALE DELLE ASSICURAZIONI; UNIONE IMOBILIARE AXA (84%); INTESA SANPAOLO SPA (71%); ISTITUTO BANCARIO SAN PAOLO DI TORINO (70%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); ISTITUTO MOBILIARE ITALIANO SPA (56%); ISTITUTO NAZIONALE DELLE ASSICURAZIONI SPA (55%); ASSURANCES GENERALES DE FRANCE SA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ISTITUTO NAZIONALE DELLE ASSICURAZIONI; UNIONE IMOBILIARE

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; ; ITALY (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); ROME, ITALY (92%); TURIN, ITALY (79%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PUBLIC PROPERTY; PRIVATIZATION REAL ESTATE (94%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); INSURANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TRENDS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); MERGERS (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); TENDER OFFERS (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); REAL ESTATE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998



625 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: War Guilt, and the Difference Between Germany and Japan

BYLINE: By Ian Buruma; Ian Buruma, a fellow of the Woodrow Wilson Center, is the author of "The Wages of Guilt: Memories of War in Germany and Japan."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The Germans are at it again, tearing one another apart over the German Problem: how to remember, or not to remember, the Holocaust. The Japanese have a problem, too, apologizing to the Chinese for the brutal war and occupation of 1931 to 1945. Why, more than 50 years on, do these two countries seem still to be unable to reconcile with the past?
The German Problem first. In the run-up to the September election Chancellor Helmut Kohl pushed the idea of an enormous Holocaust memorial in Berlin, designed by the American architect Peter Eisenman, as a kind of centerpiece for the reborn capital. Gerhard Schroder, the leader of the leftist Social Democrats, who unseated Mr. Kohl in the election, was opposed to it and has said that Germans should "look ahead without forgetting what happened." His adviser, Michael Naumann, who now serves as Culture Minister, warned that the memorial would become a site for neo-Nazi vandals. 
 Then in October Martin Walser, a well-known novelist, declared in a speech that he was tired of seeing the Holocaust pop up all the time in the media. He said Auschwitz had become to Germans "a routine threat, a tool of intimidation, a moral cudgel or just a compulsory exercise." Promptly, the leader of the Jewish community in Germany, a Holocaust survivor named Ignatz Bubis, accused Mr. Walser of "mental arson."
Clearly the complexion of the German Problem has changed. Whereas traditionally it was always conservatives who complained about the "Holocaust industry," now it is often liberals who do so.
It is as though now that the left is in power again after nearly two decades, it should feel free to talk as the right sometimes did: impatience with the legacy of the Holocaust from the right was called "Fascist"; from the left it is "breaking taboos."
One of Mr. Walser's prominent supporters has been Rudolf Augstein, editor of the liberal magazine Der Spiegel, who said that foreigners like Mr. Eisenman should not be allowed to "dictate how we deal with memories of the past in our new capital." At least Mr. Augstein is consistent -- he has always been a liberal nationalist. But his statement rings all the bells of self-pitying German xenophobia. Who is dictating anything to the Germans, anyway? Mr. Augstein hints at the "world press," which is always "beating up" the Germans. And who owns the "world press"? No, Mr. Augstein is not so coarse as to fall into that rancid trap.
Although they are old enough to have lived through the war, Mr. Walser and Mr. Augstein fit the mood of a new, younger, more assertive Germany. The people in the Schroder Government were born after any war guilt could have stuck to them.
This doesn't give them any right to gripe about hearing about the Holocaust or to complain about survivors claiming money or goods that were stolen by the Nazis. There is a nasty tone to accusations from liberals about money-grubbing Jewish lawyers in litigation over Nazi-era bank accounts.
And yet, in one sense, Mr. Walser deserves to be taken seriously: Auschwitz has become a moral cudgel, not least in the hands of Germans themselves. Gunter Grass argued in 1989 that the memory of Auschwitz should stand in the way of national reunification, since a unified Germany was guilty of the Holocaust.
When Willy Brandt fell on his knees on the site of the Warsaw ghetto in 1970, it was a moving and necessary acknowledgment of a great crime. But such symbolic gestures are too precious to become routine. Official tears have become too cheap, too ritualistic. Piety is often a substitute for knowledge and understanding. So it is perhaps right to question whether a huge Holocaust memorial is really the most appropriate monument for a democratic Germany.
Piety about war guilt is not a conspicuous feature of the Japanese scene. Yet there, too, a certain weariness about being constantly reminded of war guilt is being felt. If Mr. Augstein exaggerates foreign manipulation of German guilt, Japan is routinely subjected to just that from China.
Japanese were guilty, to be sure, of waging an atrocious war in China, and other parts of Asia. But ever since Deng Xiaoping opened China's door to foreign trade and investment, Chinese leaders have been working on Japanese guilt to secure political and economic favors -- as President Jiang Zemin did in his visit to Japan last month.
The Japanese should not forget what was perpetrated by their nation during the war, but it is a bit rich for the leader of the Chinese Communist Party, whose murderous legacy can still not be openly discussed in China, to lecture the Japanese about the importance of remembering the past.
Japan never had a Willy Brandt. No Japanese prime minister ever knelt in Nanking, the site of the most awful Japanese atrocities in 1937. Yet Japanese prime ministers have acknowledged the past, and apologized for it (although not in writing). And despite much angry and sometimes ignorant talk about Japanese burying their guilty secrets, there is a great deal of Japanese literature that deals honestly with the war.
To be sure, there are right-wing revisionists in Japan, some of them occupying senior positions in the Liberal Democratic Party. But even most conservative historians agree that Japan's war was vicious. What they dispute is that the Japanese military enterprise, however bloody, was comparable to the Nazi attempt to exterminate a people. And in my opinion they are right to do so.
In any case, to use historical guilt as a political tool as the Chinese do is the best way not only to stir up Japanese hostility, but also to trivialize the history itself.
In addition to politics, there is another reason that many people insist the Japanese should continue to apologize for the war, that the Germans are stuck with their German Problem. It has to do with the fact that we deal with history, as with so much else in our "secular" age, in a pseudo-religious manner. The past has become a matter of atonement.
It was a common view after 1945 that Germans and Japanese were sick, wicked or at least horribly flawed peoples, for otherwise they could not have committed such evil deeds. So for us to trust them again -- or for them to trust themselves -- they had to purge themselves of their sins through public confessions, official apologies and ritual reflections on their sinful nature.
This exercise was demanded not only of the generation of sinners, but also of the children and grandchildren who inherited the mark of Cain. In the German case it was not so much foreigners who demanded it as Germans themselves, who had a tendency to wallow in guilt, almost as a form of narcissism.
Piety in fact never prevented men from going to war. And the inherent wickedness of Germans, Japanese, Serbs or any other people, including Americans, was never the reason they went to war either. Dictators wage wars to expand or protect their power. Countries fight wars to protect or expand their resources, their spheres of interest, their sovereignty or their chances of survival.
The best though by no means infallible safeguard against collective human aggression is to build political institutions that protect us against dictators and keep governments in check. By that token neither the Germans nor the Japanese have done badly since 1945. Our concern should be that their institutions continue to be open and democratic -- or, in the case of Japan, become more so -- and not whether their leaders apologize enough for the past.
Germans have apologized enough. And if they continue to be bothered by a guilty national conscience, they should not blame foreigners. For that could only serve to confirm the famous prediction that the Germans will never forgive the Jews for Auschwitz.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; JAPAN; GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (1939-45); NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND OTHER MINORITIES; JEWS; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS HOLOCAUST (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LIBERAL MEDIA (74%); WRITERS (72%); WAR CRIMES (72%); ARSON (64%); 

PERSON: BURUMA, IAN GERHARD SCHRODER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998



626 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 4; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
The Coming of Age of American Restaurants

BYLINE: By Ruth Reichl 

 BODY:
PROUST had his madeleine. For me, the catalyst was seared foie gras with pomegranate seeds and a spicy pear-and-pepper chutney. Proust's little cake sent him on a journey back in time, but my savory plate made me contemplate the future. And it looks very promising.
When this epiphany occurred I was sitting in Tabla just after it opened. As the rich, spicy flavors went rolling through my mouth it suddenly hit me that I had never tasted anything quite like them. The novelty was not in the newness; to a restaurant critic, unaccustomed flavors are an everyday occurrence. What intrigued me was the fact that the ingredients went together in a way that seemed completely natural. Looking around, I realized that everything about the restaurant felt natural. Only a week old, Tabla seemed to have been open for years. 
 As I sat there thinking about this, it hit me that Tabla was not the only restaurant that had seemed so good so soon. With growing excitement I started to review the events of the last year, understanding that a momentous change has occurred: the booming economy has emboldened chefs and restaurateurs to take their craft to a whole new level.
Never have so many excellent restaurants opened in such a short time. Consider the best new restaurants of 1998: EQ, Babbo, Cena, La Fourchette, Mercer Kitchen, Michael Jordan's, the Tonic, Chianti, Eleven Madison Park, Bolivar and of course, Tabla. Each serves food that is particularly its own, and each does so in a space with a distinct personality. What is most astonishing, however, is that all of these restaurants displayed a remarkable maturity on opening day.
Why? I think it is because American restaurants have, finally, come of age. The cocky young chefs who strutted onto the stage in the 1970's and 80's have evolved out of the stupid-food stage. No longer fresh out of school, these American chefs have traveled widely. They have tasted and learned, and they now have enough experience to produce signature food without showing off. Heading into middle age, the best of them display both creativity and restraint.
The cocky young restaurateurs have grown up, too. They have gone beyond the "Let's open a restaurant and have some fun" attitude of the early days. They have professionalized the restaurant profession.
In doing so, they have made their patrons part of the equation. Architects who were once content to make statements in public dining rooms are being asked to consider the comfort quotient. Industries have grown up to deal with lighting and acoustics. Employees from reservation-takers to busboys are being trained. Waiters are no longer out-of-work actors trying to pick up a few dollars between parts. And there is a growing demand for serious sommeliers who can create wine and beer lists as interesting as the menus with which they are paired.
What does this mean for the future? Plenty. The fate of restaurants, as everybody knows, is tied to the economy. It's not just because people spend more in times of prosperity. Diners also become more adventurous when they are flush; it is no coincidence that the great advances in American dining have all occurred during bull markets. Remember the early 80's? It was an exhilarating time when restaurants reinvented themselves to give us New American cooking, open kitchens and casual chic.
But then came the recession of the early 90's, and a spate of the safe and the dull. People walked around saying, "It's the economy, stupid," while they settled for plowing through endless plates of pasta. When times turn tough, customers turn conservative. In response, restaurateurs get frightened; many close their doors, and those who stay open stick to the tried and true, producing copycat cuisine that is the edible equivalent of Hollywood studios churning out Jaws 3, 4 and 5.
But the latest changes in the restaurant industry mean that even another recession should not take us back to those dreary days. For one thing, this generation of restaurateurs will be equal to the challenge. For another, they will not be alone, because there has been one more significant change in the realm of restaurants: the people who go out to eat have matured as well.
Americans have become confident restaurant patrons. We know what we like, and are not shy about asking for it. The new American diner is savvy enough to demand good service, and knowledgeable enough to demand good food. Because we would rather be comfortable than correct, the European style of service has almost disappeared. Because we like big flavors, our food has become increasingly bold. Another recession may force us to eat less expensively, but we will not tolerate eating less well.
What will tomorrow's restaurant be? That is anybody's guess. The smart money says it will be increasingly eclectic, with more Asian, Indian and Latin-American ingredients turning up on the table. Judging by what we are eating today, though, one thing is certain: the food will be very, very good.
 
Promises to Keep: The Restaurant As Appetizer
 THE best new restaurants of 1998 may be viewed as indicators of the promise of 1999. Among them are these 11:
BABBO 110 Waverly Place (Macdougal Street); (212) 777-0303.
BOLIVAR 206 East 60th Street; (212) 838-0440.
CENA 12 East 22d Street (Broadway); (212) 505-1222.
CHIANTI 1043 Second Avenue (55th Street); (212) 980-8686.
ELEVEN MADISON PARK 11 Madison Avenue (24th Street); (212) 889-0905.
EQ 267 West Fourth Street (Perry Street); (212) 414-1961.
LA FOURCHETTE 1608 First Avenue (84th Street); (212) 249-5924.
MERCER KITCHEN 99 Prince Street (Mercer Street); (212) 966-5454.
MICHAEL JORDAN'S: THE STEAK HOUSE Grand Central Terminal; (212) 655-2300.
TABLA 11 Madison Avenue (25th Street); (212) 889-0667.
THE TONIC 108-110 West 18th Street (Seventh Avenue); (212) 929-9755. RUTH REICHL

GRAPHIC: Photo: NO GIMMICKS -- Tabla, overlooking Madison Square Park, is among the many new Manhattan restaurants that are taking cooking to a whole new level. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. F6)
 
Drawing (William Bramhall)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COMING OF AGE OF AMERICAN RESTAURANTS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-EIGHT; REVIEWS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); BEER & ALE (70%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); 

PERSON: REICHL, RUTH MICHAEL JORDAN (54%); MICHAEL JORDAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



627 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
Delta Air Lines faces a period of transition as it begins to phase in its new Business Elite class.

BYLINE: By Janet Piorko 

 BODY:
DELTA AIR LINES' business class will be in a state of flux from now until the summer on flights to Europe, Asia and Brazil as the company phases in a new service called Business Elite.
Replacing both first class and existing business class on those routes, Business Elite is described as a premium service at business-class fares. It will feature new sleeper seats with more leg room than the old business class; the seats will have electric controls for reclining and other adjustments, and personal video screens. They will also have hook-ups for laptop computers, and no passenger will be more than a seat away from an aisle. 
 The airline is reconfiguring 57 planes and will also have the new seating on 14 Boeing 777's scheduled for delivery starting in spring.
 "We're asking customers to pardon our dust while we make the conversion," said Katie Moussouri, a Delta spokeswoman. "They may have inconsistent experiences on Delta."
The airline stopped selling first-class tickets on the affected routes this month, and passengers who buy business-class tickets while the transition takes place may wind up in first-class seats, in the old business-class seats, or in one of the reconfigured cabins. In any case, cabin service will be the same as in Delta's old business class until spring, when a new Business Elite meal service will offer a choice of four entrees (including a vegetarian option) and a self-service snacking station.
The alternative to the gradual transition was to have 57 planes on the ground being reconfigured simultaneously, Ms. Moussouri said, adding: "Our financial guys wouldn't let us do that. Our customers wouldn't like it either. It would be a big change in our schedule."
The airline decided to introduce the new service, which is costing about $314 million, because of the larger size and faster growth of the business-class market, compared with first class, Ms. Moussouri said.
 
Marriott in Moscow
The 234-room Marriott Royal Hotel, set to open Jan. 12 with 234 rooms near the Bolshoi Theater in Moscow, will be the third in a troika of Marriott hotels in the Russian capital. The others are the 392-room Moscow Marriott Grand and the 162-room Marriott Tverskaya. Operated by the Interstate Hotels Corporation, the three hotels are owned by Mospromstroy, a Moscow construction company. Each hotel has a health club, business center and meeting facilities.
Asked about the outlook for luxury hotels in Moscow given Russia's economic woes, Jeroen Gerrese, general manager of the Marriott Royal, said: "There is certainly room at the top in spite of recessionary times. Business travel to Moscow still takes place."
He added, however, "We have our challenges, no question about it."
 
Fit in Pennsylvania
Airport Fitness, a Dayton, Ohio, company that operates a health club in Pittsburgh International Airport, plans to open its second club next year, in Philadelphia. The Pittsburgh club, beneath the airport concourse, has treadmills, a Versaclimber, stair steppers, rowers, bicycles and weight equipment. Single visits cost $11.25. Michael Michno, the company's founder, said he hoped for an opening in July at Philadelphia International Airport.
 
Rewards Revamped
Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide will begin a new frequent-guest program, called Starwood Preferred Guest, in February. Members of Sheraton Club International and Westin Premier programs, which the new program will replace, will automatically be enrolled. (Starwood earlier this year acquired Westin Hotels and ITT, the owner of Sheraton hotels and Caesars casinos.) The program will allow members to accumulate points and redeem awards at more than 550 hotels around the world.
 
I.R.S. Delays Rule Change
The Internal Revenue Service has delayed its planned reduction in the reimbursement rate for business driving, after objections from several companies that wanted more time to convert computer software.
The reduction from the current rate of 32.5 cents a mile to 31 cents for employees who drive personal cars for work was scheduled to take effect this Friday, according to The Associated Press.
But the I.R.S. decided earlier this month to postpone the effective date until April 1 to give businesses time to reprogram computers and change employee manuals.
Two factors are behind the proposed reduction: the falling price of gasoline resulting from low inflation and slow depreciation rates for automobiles, which are holding their value longer, an I.R.S. spokesman said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); MAR (NYSE) (82%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (82%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (82%); NAICS721310 ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (62%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (88%); ASIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (77%); DAYTON, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC; MARRIOTT HOTELS; AIRPORT FITNESS (CO); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC; INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (82%); INTERSTATE HOTELS & RESORTS INC (62%); BOEING CO (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELTA AIR LINES INC; MARRIOTT HOTELS; AIRPORT FITNESS (CO); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC; INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (88%); ASIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (77%); DAYTON, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HOTELS AND MOTELS; EXERCISE; PITTSBURGH INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT AIRLINES (94%); AIRPORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); AIR FARES (78%); FITNESS CENTERS (68%); HOTEL CHAINS (66%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); MEAT FREE DIETS (64%); RESORTS (64%); HOTEL STAFF (61%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (60%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (55%); 

PERSON: PIORKO, JANET MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



628 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Optimistic Consumers Drive Home Resales Up Sharply

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29

 BODY:
Home resales rose in November to their second-strongest rate ever, energized by optimistic consumers, low mortgage rates and job gains.
The National Association of Realtors said today that resales increased 2.7 percent last month, to an annual rate of 4.90 million units, close to the record pace of 4.91 million units reached in July. For all of 1998, the association expects sales of existing homes to set an annual record for the third consecutive year. 
 "For this time of year, it's an incredibly brisk market," said John Tuccillo, consulting economist for the association.
The market has been so strong that the supply of homes is dwindling. "If you talk to realtors around the country," Mr. Tuccillo said, "they will point that out as a major problem they have -- they are running out of inventory in a lot of places. There's no want for buyers."
Strong consumer confidence is one reason for the home purchases. The Conference Board said today that its index of confidence stood at 126.1 in December. Although that was down from 126.4 in November, the index has stayed above 125 for 18 of the last 20 months and is high by historical standards. It reached its highest level in three decades, 138.2, in June.
The supply of previously owned homes fell in November to 4.7 months, the lowest level this year. Coupled with bulging order backlogs at the nation's home builders, that could mean that home sales will start to slow next year simply because there are not enough houses to satisfy the flood of buyers.
Consumer confidence probably will keep spending strong. The economy is on track to enter the ninth year of its current expansion in April.
"As we enter 1999, the outlook for continued economic growth remains positive," said Lynn Franco, a Conference Board economist.
That degree of confidence, coupled with job and income gains and low mortgage rates, is expected to continue to underpin housing next year. Since the week of June 12, the average 30-year fixed mortgage rate has held below 7 percent. In November, the average weekly 30-year mortgage rate was 6.87 percent, little changed from October's average of 6.71 percent, according to the average of weekly statistics from Freddie Mac, which buys home mortgages.
During November, home resales rose 5.9 percent in the South, to a record annual rate of 1.97 million units; 4.2 percent in the Midwest, to a rate of 1.24 million units, and 1.5 percent in the Northeast, to a rate of 670,000 units. They fell 3.8 percent in the West, to an annual rate of 1.02 million units.
The median price of a previously owned home rose to $131,800 in November from $130,700 in October.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MIDWEST USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; FORECASTS; LABOR EXISTING HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); 

PERSON: JOHN TUCCILLO (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



629 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Demand Is Strongat 2-Year Note Sale, and Prices Rise Again

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Bond prices rose for a second day yesterday after the Treasury encountered stronger-than-expected demand at its auction of $15 billion in two-year notes.
"The strength of the two-year sale was the driving force" that gave Treasuries a late boost, said Alan Koepplin, who oversees $2.5 billion of bonds at SG Cowen Asset Management in New York. The recent rise in Treasury yields helped yesterday's sale, he said. 
 The price of the benchmark 30-year bond rose 26/32 , to 102 12/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.09 percent from 5.15 percent. The yield on the new two-year Treasury note fell 5 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, from the auction level, to 4.64 percent.
The Treasury sold the notes at a yield of 4.69 percent, below the 4.72 percent forecast by bond traders before the auction.
In another sign of demand, investors bid for 2.57 times the amount of notes for sale, surpassing the average in the last 10 auctions.
"That's a surprise because we weren't expecting much participation," said Alfred Marshall, director of fixed-income strategies at Interstate/Johnson Lane Inc. in Charlotte, N.C. "Those yields had gotten to the point where people paid attention."
Traders had warned the sale might prove lackluster because many investors are on vacation between Christmas and New Year's. Volume was 19 percent below the average for a Tuesday in the last month, according to Govpx Inc., a bond-pricing service.
Some investors say that forecasts for low inflation in 1999 -- even as the economy keeps growing -- make Treasuries a good buy.
Treasury yields are also higher than rates on comparable international bonds, with the exception of Canadian and Australian debt.
Those factors helped push the return on 30-year Treasuries to 18.2 percent this year, while 10-year notes rose 13 percent, based on price gains and reinvested interest payments. Those are the highest returns since 1995, when bonds climbed 34.7 percent. By comparison, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen 17.9 percent so far this year.
Favorable conditions in the bond market have extended, as well, to corporate issues. A large number of companies are expected to sell debt next month to take advantage of low rates and the expectation that inflation will remain low.
While many of the names of prospective borrowers have yet to be announced, investors and bankers say they expect as much as $40 billion of investment-grade bonds and $15 billion in high-yield bonds to be sold in January..
"Rates are low and all of a sudden, companies can act on those rates," said Nicholas Walsh, a manager of fixed-income securities at J.& W. Seligman & Company in New York. "That's powerful motivation."
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of two-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Price . . . 99.877
High Yield . . . 4.690%
Low Yield . . . 4.650%
Median Yield . . . 4.674%
Accepted at low price . . . 97%
Total applied for . . . $42,976,651
Accepted . . . $19,466,121
Noncompetitive . . . $1,094,789
Interest set at . . . 4 5/8
 
The two-year notes mature on Dec. 31, 2000.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data); "2-Year Treasury Notes" shows high yields in percent, from 1997 and 1998. (Source: Treasury Dept.)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IAP (LSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (55%); ICAP PLC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (86%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (79%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CHRISTMAS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



630 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Frisbee U.'s Students Now Toss Brainstorms

BYLINE: By JAMES RYAN 

 BODY:
Eric Breeden and his classmates at Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., are eagerly awaiting fresh powder at nearby Ascutney Mountain. It's not that they plan to do much skiing. Rather, they'll be testing a new snowboard for the disabled that they are developing under an unusual program to foster inventors.
"Last semester was frustrating," said the 21-year-old Mr. Breeden, who devotes much of his spare time to the snowboard project. "We finally got a prototype together, and all the snow melted." 
The Hampshire program, financed by the Lemelson Foundation, has helped reshape the image of a small, experimental central Massachusetts college, long saddled with the nickname Frisbee U. because of its eccentric student body and grade-free curriculum.
Gregory Prince Jr., Hampshire's president, has championed the five-year-old program as a way to promote the college among business and community leaders.
"They suddenly see us as a very entrepreneurial, business-friendly institution," Dr. Prince said. "Prior to that, we were seen as somewhat radical, different and, I suspect, a little bit flaky."
While the college, founded in 1970, has not entirely shed that reputation -- there are no grades, no departments, no majors -- the Lemelson Program has given students a grounding in real-world economics.
In addition to the snowboard, undergraduates have dreamed up an ergonomic bass guitar, off-road in-line skates and an inflatable playhouse, all of which are in varying stages of design.
The goal, as mandated by the foundation, is that the inventions created under the program someday be marketed. Grants ranging from a few hundred dollars to several thousand are awarded to individual students, teams or professors to develop their ideas. Mass Ventures, a venture development company based in Amherst, has been enlisted to help students get their inventions to market. One student product, an Internet calendar, has raised $150,000 in seed capital, and an organic method of pest control for corn is expected to be on the market next year.
The foundation was created by Jerome H. Lemelson, an independent inventor who died last year. Mr. Lemelson held more than 500 patents, including one on the cassette drive mechanism that made the Sony Walkman possible. He spent much of his life battling corporations for royalty payments, and ultimately won hundreds of millions of dollars in settlements. He devoted himself in later years to helping the next generation of entrepreneurial inventors.
The idea for the Hampshire program was hatched over dinner in 1993. Mr. Lemelson, whose son and daughter-in-law attended Hampshire and who believed in the college's cross-disciplinary approach, asked Dr. Prince whether it was possible to teach creativity.
"I said, 'All I want to do is just unleash it,' " Dr. Prince recalled.
Since then, the Lemelson Foundation -- currently endowed at $30 million but with a commitment from the Lemelson family for an endowment of at least $100 million by the end of 1999 -- has spent $5 million on the Hampshire program, with $705,540 awarded in grants. A separate national program, also based at Hampshire, has awarded more than $1 million to innovation courses or individual inventors at some 80 universities and colleges since its inception three years ago.
Courses offered at Hampshire under the Lemelson banner have names as unusual as their subjects: "How People Move," "Pesticide Alternatives" and "Is the Mouse Dead: The Psychology of Human-Computer Interface." Hampshire's officials estimate that 20 percent of its 1,000 or so students take one or more Lemelson courses by graduation.
The classes are spawning grounds for ideas, although only a few get to the design stage or even closer to realization, as prototypes. None of the student-developed products has yet been widely marketed or made it through the patent process, which can take years.
But several patent applications are pending, among them one for the snowboard designed for the disabled. That patent would be in the name of Collin Twitchell, the instructor who conceived the idea, and two students, Matt Capozzi and Nate Henshaw-Plath, who helped develop the prototype. Hampshire would actually own the patent, however, and then grant commercialization rights back to the inventors, who would be entitled to all royalties except 5 percent divided between the college and the foundation.
Donning a paint-spattered blue jump suit, Mr. Breeden now spends four or five nights a week working on the snowboard prototype in the on-campus machine shop of the program's Center for Assistive Technology, devoted to design for the disabled. The shop is equipped with a lathe, welding equipment and a machine for plastic injection molding.
Mr. Breeden and his class inherited the snowboard project from the original team after its members had graduated. In fact, few students seem to want to see a project through to completion, an inclination that has frustrated the program's officials. Mr. Capozzi, who has since graduated, chafed at what he perceived as pressure from the program to start a business based on the snowboard prototype he had helped develop.
"I had to fight tooth and nail not to set up shop in a garage," said Mr. Capozzi, who had received $8,000 in grant money. Of the snowboard, he said, "I want to see it out there, I just wasn't willing to commit the rest of my life to it."
Leaders of the program are beginning to understand that most students, no matter how focused and independent, are like Mr. Capozzi: not ready to start a business right out of college.
Denis Praeger, vice president of the foundation, acknowledges the kinks.
"There's a Bill Gates every once in a while," Mr. Praeger said, "but it doesn't happen very often. Maybe we should take a longer view: they'll go work for a big business and then start their own business at 28 or 29, when they are mature enough."
Whether or not its graduates ever create businesses of their own, the program will have benefited them, says its director, Brenda Philips.
"The critical thinking skills that you learn," Ms. Philips said, "can be very effectively applied in work settings."
Students agree that the program helps focus their career goals and gives them an inside track in the job market.
One recent graduate, Jerome Little, developed a bass guitar with an ergonomically twisted neck so aging rockers could avoid carpal tunnel syndrome. He has since landed a job with the renowned guitar maker Ken Parker.
When he enrolled at Hampshire, Mr. Capozzi thought he would study ornithology. "But after taking all these classes, I found I was doing all this design in my spare time," he said. "The program gave me confidence to go out there and do something."
Having graduated last year, he now works in product design at Burton Snowboards in Burlington, Vt.
Dr. Prince, Hampshire's president, expresses pleasure at the strides the college has taken toward providing a practical education.
"When I came in as president 10 years ago," having left Dartmouth College as an associate dean, "my colleagues tended to be supportive, but basically dismissed Hampshire," he said. "It was quaint, different and irrelevant. Ten years later they see Hampshire and they know that we are doing what they want to do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Among the prototypes created by students under a Hampshire College program to develop inventors are an inflatable playhouse and this early version of a snowboard for the disabled. The snowboard, equipped with a seat and steered by hand, is ridden by Matt Capozzi, who helped design it. (Photographs by Hampshire College)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HAMPSHIRE COLLEGE; LEMELSON FOUNDATION HAMPSHIRE COLLEGE (92%); LEMELSON FOUNDATION (68%); FRISBEE U (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMPSHIRE COLLEGE; LEMELSON FOUNDATION HAMPSHIRE COLLEGE (92%); LEMELSON FOUNDATION (68%); FRISBEE U (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SNOWBOARDING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); SKIING (78%); ROYALTIES (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); PATENTS (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (57%); 

PERSON: RYAN, JAMES JAMES T RYAN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



631 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Decadelong Forecasts Are Usually Wrong

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Forecasting season is upon us. It gets under way with fervor every decade, in the year ending in 9. There seems to be something about that number that provokes predictions.
This time, of course, many forecasts will go well beyond the next decade. Some will cover the next century while others will purport to map out the next millennium. 
 In a way, it is probably wiser to make century or millennium predictions. At least the forecaster won't be around to be proved wrong. But many of those trying to forecast the next decade, the O's as some would have it, or perhaps the pre-teens, will be alive -- and humbled -- in 2010.
Consider the past two decades. Economic forecasters in 1979 were dead wrong on the important things of the 1980's, while those of 1989 were wrong about the major international economic story of the 1990's.
In 1979 commodities were rising in price, and were almost universally expected to continue doing so. The debate over oil prices was not whether they would rise, but how far and how fast. There were worries that oil producers would wind up owning the world, that inflation could not be halted and that sluggish growth was the best the American economy could hope for.
As for investments, Business Week summed up the prevailing wisdom. The question for the 1980's, it said, was whether the stock market "can regain its role as the nation's premier place to invest, which it held for a quarter-century after World War II. The answer is almost certainly no." Nor were bonds deemed a good investment.
Instead energy investments were recommended, particularly in alternative technologies that would become increasingly competitive as oil prices kept rising.
In fact, stocks and bonds were marvelous investments in the 1980's, and energy became a black hole that only got worse in the 1990's.
In 1989 the domestic economic view seemed less clear. It had been a great decade for the stock market, with the Dow Jones industrial average up 228 percent -- in contrast to a 5 percent gain for the 1970's. (The figures exclude both dividends and transaction costs.) But memories of the 1987 crash were still relatively fresh, and some forecasters -- this writer included -- took for granted that stocks would not do as well in the 1990's as in the 1980's.
We were wrong. The final statistics on the decade are not in yet, of course. But the Dow will have a better decade if it manages to stay above 6,284 until the end of 1999.
The largest error in the 1989 forecasts concerned Japan, which was viewed as the world's most formidable economy. Some thought Japanese stocks were overvalued, but almost no one saw trouble ahead for the Japanese economic machine.
There was much worrying about how -- or whether -- American companies could become competitive in a world dominated by the Japanese. "The Japanese are the real innovators now," said one expert. Japan, added a piece published on this page, "practices a different flavor of capitalism, which gives its companies special advantages over their American competitors."
In fact, the Japanese stock market is down more than 60 percent in the 1990's. Japanese economic growth was poor at best during the period, and now the country is in a severe recession. It is Americans who give Japanese unwanted advice, with an air of superiority, whereas 10 years ago it was the reverse.
What does this poor record say for this year's forecasts? It says to be wary of predictions that are almost universally held to be true. Today's investment verity may be tomorrow's tale of woe.
With that in mind, here are three widely held views that may well seem foolish before the next decade is out. First, stocks are now, and always will be, the best long-term investment. Second, technology investing will bring big returns as it improves productivity in the economy. Third, inflation is dead.
If those views sound foolish, don't write to me now. Wait until 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (52%); DOW JONES & CO INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; NINETEEN HUNDRED EIGHTIES; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETIES; TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY; STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MILLENNIUM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BONDS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); TRENDS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); WRITERS (68%); STOCK INDEXES (67%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



632 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Five JapaneseBanks Raise Mortgage Rates

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 29

 BODY:
Five major Japanese banks announced today that they would raise mortgage rates by as much as eight-tenths of a percentage point next month, the first sign that soaring interest rates here will squeeze the already embattled Japanese consumer. A sixth bank had raised its rates on Monday.
Interest rates, which were at historic low levels earlier this year, have recently been rising as the Government sinks deeper and deeper into debt while trying to lift the economy out of recession with expensive stimulus measures. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Japanese Government bond closed higher again today, at 1.865 percent, an increase of more than 1 percentage point since it hit a record low of 0.695 percent in October. Rates are still well below those in the United States, however. For example, the yield on the 10-year United States Treasury note fell to 4.67 percent today. 
 Just yesterday, the Government was celebrating a 2 percent rise in consumer spending in November compared with the month a year earlier, driven largely by sales of personal computers. That was the first jump in consumer spending in five months, but higher mortgage rates are virtually certain to dampen any emerging trend.
"Most existing housing loans here are fixed rate and thus won't be affected by this," said Robert Alan Feldman, the chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in Tokyo. "But it's psychologically important because it will have a negative effect on those who might have been thinking about building or buying a house and all of the subsequent spending that accompanies those activities" such as buying appliances and furniture.
Sakura Bank announced on Monday that it would raise rates on 10-year mortgages by three-quarters of a percentage point, to 3.95 percent, and today it was joined by Fuji Bank, Sanwa Bank, the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank and Sumitomo Bank, which all raised their rates to levels between 3.8 percent and 4.05 percent. Other financial institutions are likely to follow suit. Although there is not a widely used comparable 10-year rate in the United States, the average rate on a 15-year fixed-rate mortgage was 6.41 percent last week.
Raising interest rates in the midst of the worst recession since World War II seems counterintuitive. Japanese banks, however, are struggling to clean up their balance sheets by reducing their assets, and higher interest rates help in that process.
The Construction Ministry, on the other hand, has apparently been pushing a plan to ease the terms of housing loans that will interfere with that effort. Earlier this month, the ministry ordered the Housing Loan Corporation to revise its terms in various ways, including extending repayment periods by 10 years and offering borrowers zero percent interest for up to three years. The Government is now worried that financial institutions will force mortgage holders in both the private and corporate sectors to increase the size of their payments, using the money saved through the revised terms, according to The Tokyo Newspaper.
The ministry's plans will increase the portion of questionable loans held by banks, Mr. Feldman said. "That's exactly what the banks don't need," he said.
There is the possibility, of course, that mortgage rates will drop just as quickly as they have risen. The yield on 10-year Japanese Government bonds is expected to be 1.3 percent at the end of the fiscal year on March 31, according to the average estimate of nine economists based in Japan who were surveyed by Bloomberg News. In other words, they expect prices to rise and yields to fall over the next three months.
But Mr. Feldman thinks Japan's higher interest rates are likely to remain as long as the economy continues to flounder. He said investors were avoiding longer-term investments in favor of shorter-term investments, seeking ever-greater liquidity and more limited exposure to Japan's economic troubles.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (81%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (81%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); TOKYO NEWSPAPER (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO NEWSPAPER (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; HOUSING; MORTGAGES ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); MORTGAGE RATES (91%); RECESSION (90%); TRENDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (53%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE ROBERT ALAN FELDMAN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



633 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: A Safer New York

 BODY:
As New Yorkers look ahead to the new year, they can take satisfaction in the vibrant stock market and the tourist boom that continue to create new jobs. The Yankees won the World Series and the Jets are headed into the playoffs. The litter that once filled midtown is largely gone. But perhaps more than anything else that has lifted spirits, the city is safer. Another piece of good news came recently in the sharp decline in homicides this year. As of Monday there were 620 homicides in 1998, a pace that is below the 1964 total of 636 homicides. Turning the homicide rate back 34 years is an impressive feat, given that 2,262 people were killed in the city in 1990.
The decline may be the result of many social factors, such as a generally healthy economy, a drop in the number of people in their teens and 20's, and a shift away from crack cocaine in the illegal drug market. But the city's focused and innovative policing strategies also deserve a good share of the credit. 
 While crime rates have gone down nationwide from 1991 through 1997, New York's experience is exceptional. Recent data from the Federal Bureau of Investigation show that New York City ranks 163d in per-capita crime out of 200 cities with populations over 100,000. Even cities that have had success in reducing overall crime have not shown similar success in cutting homicide numbers. In Baltimore, for example, the number of killings this year has just reached 300 -- in a city with less than a tenth of New York's population.
New York's success is due in large part to a policing philosophy that focuses on crime reduction, rather than after-the-fact crime-solving. The Police Department's anti-drug initiatives have targeted drug gangs and dealers in all boroughs of the city. Stabilizing dangerous blocks by cleaning up parks and encouraging residents to reclaim public spaces is helping to drive out drug traffickers. Continuous computer mapping of crime "hot spots" allows precincts to deploy officers to blocks where crime is likely to occur.
Strong measures aimed at gun violence have also helped. A street-crimes unit of some 400 officers, specially trained to ferret out illegal handguns, has been responsible for about 40 percent of all the guns captured by the police. The benefits of these initiatives have been particularly impressive in neighborhoods, such as Washington Heights and parts of Harlem, that have been victimized by crime for years. Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and Police Commissioner Howard Safir should be commended for these results.
But aggressive policing also means the Mayor and Mr. Safir must be even more vigilant about rooting out and preventing police misconduct. Their reluctance to admit that the department has been slow to crack down on brutality, improper raids on innocent people and internal cover-ups of rogue police behavior remains a serious blemish on their achievements.
Meanwhile, the Mayor and Mr. Safir could use more help from Congress. Both have been energetic advocates for strong gun-control laws. Although New York has strict handgun laws, it is estimated that some three-quarters of the guns used in crimes in the city come from out of state, often from states with weaker gun-control laws.
National legislation that clamps down on gun sales -- such as a law limiting an individual's gun purchases in any state to one a month -- could make an important difference in New York's continuing effort to make the city a safer place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK JETS (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK JETS (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; EDITORIALS; POLICE; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-EIGHT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CRIME RATES (91%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); CRIME PREVENTION (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); MISCONDUCT (73%); DRUG POLICY (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); GANGS (68%); COCAINE (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); FIREARMS (65%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



634 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Senators Urge Clinton to Seek Deal to Remove Yugoslav Leader

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29

 BODY:
A group of Senators are urging the Clinton Administration to arrange a deal that would let President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia and his wife take refuge in a third country in exchange for stepping down.
"U.S. policy should be to bring about and support a democratic government committed to the rule of law in Serbia and Yugoslavia," Senator Richard Lugar said today. 
 "Absent fundamental change in Serbia and the leadership of Yugoslavia,," he added, "the Balkans seem destined for perpetual crisis and successive Western interventions."
Mr. Lugar, an Indiana Republican, and six other members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee proposed measures intended to weaken Mr. Milosevic's authoritarian rule and allow a transition to a democratic government.
The proposal, outlined in a letter last week to President Clinton, includes instructing American officials to cut contacts with Mr. Milosevic; lifting economic sanctions against Montenegro, Serbia's reform-minded partner in the Yugoslav federation, and designating a special Presidential envoy for promotion of democratic change.
The letter urged Mr. Clinton to explore an option "whereby Milosevic (with his wife Mirjana Markovic) might be given incentive to relinquish power voluntarily and to leave Serbia rather than cling to power and inflict greater suffering on the people of Yugoslavia and the region." Mr. Milosevic's wife, a leader of a neo-Communist party, is considered a powerful influence on her husband and has been pushing for closer ties with Russia.
The White House reacted with a noncommittal statement. "We certainly share the Senators' wish of seeing the people of Serbia enjoy the rights all people have to a free and open society and democracy," the White House national security spokesman, David Leavy, said today.
The Clinton Administration's cautious response may spring from the fact that while it has blamed Mr. Milosevic for fomenting the wars that tore apart the former Yugoslavia, it has nonetheless worked closely with him to insure peace in the region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MONTENEGRO (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (83%); WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (83%); WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MONTENEGRO (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



635 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1693 words

HEADLINE: Breaking the Comfort Barrier;
Car Makers Adding Amenities in Push To Revive Sales Of Smaller Models

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: CHELSEA, Mich.

 BODY:
Gasoline prices have plunged and sport utility vehicle sales are soaring, yet many of the world's biggest auto makers plan to introduce fuel-sipping small car models in the United States in the coming months. Are they crazy?
Not really. The interest in small cars is partly driven by regulations -- auto makers need to sell a lot of small cars to avoid violating Federal fuel-economy laws. The coming surge is also partly a coincidence, as many auto makers happen to have completed new designs at the same time. 
 More important, the new models reflect a shift in how auto makers, particularly American and Japanese auto makers, look at small cars. Disappearing are the economy boxes of even two or three years ago, with their tiny wheels, plastic bumpers and sometimes gaudy paint schemes. In their place will be more expensive models that look and perform like shorter versions of midsize cars.
The new small cars will also have almost as much interior room as midsize models, thanks to higher roofs and clever designs.
A big reason for building small cars that look like undersized Ford Tauruses is that a greater number of older, more affluent Americans are buying them. They expect better comfort and amenities. Younger buyers, meanwhile, are increasingly turning to used cars and sport utility vehicles instead.
The older buyers include people like Paul F. Wishnow, a 65-year-old antiques appraiser in Houston. He has owned a huge black Chrysler New Yorker sedan for years but bought a new metallic-gray Plymouth Neon small sedan last month.
"Parking is convenient and mileage is great," Mr. Wishnow said. "My kids are all gone, and it basically just works for me."
The recent success of Volkswagen A.G.'s New Beetle, which starts at $16,425, has also reminded executives that small cars can be profitable after all. At the same time, the huge excess of small-car factories in South Korea and elsewhere in emerging markets, capable of producing extremely cheap cars, has left American and Japanese auto makers despairing of profits at the very bottom end of the market. Last year, the Ford Motor Company stopped selling two of its smallest cars, the Aspire and the Ford Probe.
Another important reason for selling plusher small cars lies in the growth of the late-model used car market, as ever more two- and three-year-old cars come on the market at the end of leases. Given a choice between a stripped-down small car and a similarly priced, late-model midsize car with lots of options, more Americans have been choosing the used car. Falling gasoline prices have removed what little financial incentive remained for cash-strapped young buyers to choose a no-frills small car instead of a bigger, older model.
"A lot of people are choosing to move to the used vehicle rather than buy a smaller car, so what we're seeing is a very weak market for small cars, and the very small cars have virtually gone out of business," said John F. Smith Jr., the General Motors Corporation's chairman and chief executive.
Every big auto maker seems to have drawn the same conclusion -- that the future lies in larger, more expensive small cars, typically costing $13,000 to $17,500. The danger for auto makers is that it may be only a matter of time before profit margins in this niche also evaporate.
This could come sooner rather than later if auto makers cut prices to maintain sales and improve their overall compliance with Federal fuel economy laws. And Korean auto makers are also developing ever-more attractive models, so that the overhang of capacity for bare-bones economy cars costing less than $11,000 could spread to the larger small cars.
Midsize car prices are actually creeping down now, as auto makers pass along the savings from manufacturing improvements. But even though the costs of manufacturing small cars are dropping even faster, as auto makers rely on mostly nonunion suppliers to assemble ever larger chunks of vehicles, the prices that consumers pay for small cars are likely to edge up by a few hundred dollars over the next couple of years.
Auto makers are taking all their manufacturing savings on small cars and spending the money and more on making small cars fancier, rather than cheaper. None of the new small cars have been priced so far, including the new Neon sedan, which Chrysler recently displayed at its heavily guarded test track here 55 miles west of Detroit.
Yet the industry's consensus is that auto makers that do not upgrade their small cars will end up with few sales at all, which will help neither profits nor compliance with fuel economy laws. "They have to be good to sell," said James Hall, an analyst with Auto Pacific Inc., a consulting company in Santa Ana, Calif. "There was a time when being small was good enough."
The auto industry's new emphasis on costlier small cars will be evident at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit in early January. Ford will be promoting its new Focus, which will replace the aging Escort. DaimlerChrysler A.G. will be showing off the completely redesigned Dodge and Plymouth Neon, which is becoming a taller, sportier small car.
Toyota will introduce the Echo, which will replace the diminutive Tercel while having almost as much interior room as the Corolla. Honda plans to roll out a prototype for its next small car. And G.M. will show off several prototypes as it continues to work on substitutes for the Chevrolet Cavalier and Pontiac Sunfire.
What all these small cars have in common is that they are more spacious than the cars they replace.
The new Ford Focus, for example, does not just have more headroom, legroom and shoulder room than the Ford Escort it replaces. It is also bigger in all three critical interior measures than the Ford Contour, the next larger sedan in Ford's inventory. Yet the overall length of the Focus is similar to an Escort and nearly a foot shorter than a Contour.
While Ford insists that the Focus only succeeds the Escort, a Ford manager who insisted on anonymity said that the auto maker had already begun planning to convert its Contour factory in Kansas City, Mo., to the production of sport utility vehicles.
Drivers typically sit slightly higher off the road in the new models, and auto makers hope that this will also reassure buyers about safety. The manufacturers' own research has found that many drivers are more nervous about driving small vehicles as big sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks become ever more common.
"With all the trucks and S.U.V.'s on the road now, people want to sit a little higher," Ernest J. Laginess, DaimlerChrysler's executive engineer for the Neon's body, said as he rode in the new Neon at the Chrysler test track.
As small cars move upscale, auto makers face a problem in persuading buyers to spend a little more for them. The response has been to undertake particularly drastic redesigns and to rename cars, as Ford and Toyota are doing, in the hope that shoppers will forget the older, cheaper models.
In its styling, "the Focus is definitely not an Escort," Mr. Hall, the analyst, said. "If you call it an Escort, you set expectations for pricing."
And many small-car buyers can afford to pay higher prices. In 1990, for example, the best-selling small car was the Ford Escort, which typically went for about $9,600, or $11,958 in today's dollars. The best-selling small car this year is the Honda Civic EX sedan, which sells for $17,145 -- although the Civic has become so large that by some definitions it no longer qualifies as a small car.
DaimlerChrysler has found that 70 percent of its Neon buyers now live in households owning one or more other new vehicles, most often a Chrysler minivan. The original Neon in 1994 was sold in bright pastel colors like "nitrous green," intended to lure 20-something buyers. By contrast, the all-new Neon going on sale in February will be sold in colors like silver and deep cranberry.
The median target age for the new vehicle is 39 -- Chrysler anticipates that roughly half the buyers will be in their 40's, 50's and 60's and only half will be the young people for whom the original Neon was designed.
Still, all of these new small cars will have to be shoehorned into a shrinking market. Sales in the United States have slid steadily to about 2 million this year from 2.77 million small cars in 1993; within this category, sales of the smallest, cheapest cars have plunged in the same period to 152,000 from 518,000.
But small cars remain the biggest segment of the auto market in the rest of the world. This allows auto makers to spread the design and engineering costs of new small car models across many more vehicles. Indeed, Ford has already begun selling the Focus in Europe. DaimlerChrysler hopes to export close to 40,000 Neons annually, but its ambitious redesign of the vehicle is only aimed at maintaining sales in the United States at 200,000 or so a year.
Auto executives also view small cars as a way to reassure Washington that they have not lost interest in fuel economy even as sales soar for high-profit, gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles.
"By improving fuel economy, we fend off legislative or regulatory improvements in fuel economy, and that's a reason to do it, obviously," said G. Richard Wagoner Jr., G.M.'s president.
In addition, developing small cars represents an insurance policy against the possibility that gasoline prices may someday rise again to a level at which they influence Americans' car-buying decisions. And small cars remain the first purchase for some young buyers who may form a lifelong attachment to the brand of their first set of wheels.
For such reasons, "you don't ever want to get completely out of a market," said Thomas Stallkamp, the president of DaimlerChrysler A.G.'s North American operations.
To meet all these goals, Cynthia L. Hess, DaimlerChrysler's general manager for small car engineering, said here, auto makers hope to bring refinement and sophistication to the end of the market previously known for just the opposite.
"Gone forever," she predicted, "are the 13-inch wheels and the gray plastic bumpers."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ford's Focus, above, and Chrysler's redesigned Neon are part of auto makers' strategy to use more luxury to revive sales at the small end of their model lines. (Ford, above; Associated Press, below)(pg. C1); Paul F. Wishnow, 65, is the sort of older, more affluent driver who car makers say are buying smaller, more luxurious cars. Mr. Wishnow, who already owned a Chrysler New Yorker, bought a new Neon last month. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times)(pg. C2)
 
Chart/Photos: "Going Upscale in a Small Way"
Low gasoline prices and the growing availability of late-model, used cars in good condition have hurt small car sales. Sales of the smallest economy models have suffered particularly, so auto makers plan to introduce slightly more luxurious small cars that cost a little more.
 
Graph plots small cars' share of light-vehicle sales, from 1988 throuh 1998.
 
MORE EXPENSIVE
($11,300-$17,500)*
 
ECONOMY
(Below $11,300)*
 
SPECIALTY
(Little or no back seat)
 
*In 1998 dollars, adjusted for
inflation in overall auto prices
 
EXAMPLES
Toyota Corolla
Chevrolet Metro
Mitsubishi Eclipse
 
(Source: Ward's Auto Infobank)(pg. C1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VOW (FRA) (91%); VKW (LSE) (91%); FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUEL EFFICIENCY MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); AUTOMAKERS (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SEDANS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (51%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH PAUL F WISHNOW (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



636 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

11 European Countries Prepare for One Currency
After decades of dreams, diplomacy and delays, the single European currency, the euro, is close to becoming a reality. Tomorrow, 11 European countries are to lock their exchange rates to the euro, now worth about $1.17, and cede to the new European Central Bank the power to set interest rates and monetary policy. The currency will officially be introduced on Friday. 
 In France, the euro is quickly catching on. At a supermarket outside Strasbourg, a mecca for cross-border shoppers, everything from bananas to televisions has been priced in euros, and French francs, for months. At upscale restaurants, euro-pricing on menus is a fashion must. In Paris, 11 giant balloons representing the participating countries are on display outside the headquarters of Paribas, the financial services giant. Page A1.
 
Most States Meeting Welfare Rules
The first official data from the Federal Government show that most states are meeting the work requirements of the 1996 welfare law, with 28 percent of adults on the rolls participating in some type of work activity, Administration officials said. A1.
 
Japanese Mortgage Rates Rise
Five major Japanese banks said they would raise mortgage rates by as much as eight-tenths of a percentage point, the first sign that soaring interest rates will squeeze the already embattled Japanese consumer. A sixth bank has already raised its rates. C4.
 
Malaysia to Get $1.35 Billion Loan
Twelve foreign banks said they had agreed to lend Malaysia $1.35 billion at an interest rate substantially below what the Government would have to pay to raise much-needed cash on the international bond market. C4.
 
Strong Auction Lifts Bond Prices
Bond prices rose for a second day after the Treasury encountered stronger-than-expected demand at its auction of $15 billion in two-year notes. The yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury fell to 5.09 percent. C6.
 
Ex-Biogen Chief Tells Why He Left
James R. Tobin, who resigned last week as president and chief executive of Biogen, said he left because of conflicts with James L. Vincent, chairman of the top biotechnology company. Mr. Tobin said he had told Biogen's board it must choose between them. C2.
 
Big British Company Seeks Merger
General Electric Company P.L.C. of Britain said it was looking at Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Thomson-CSF of France and British Aerospace as possible merger partners. The British company, unrelated to General Electric of the United States, said no deal would be announced before the new year. C4.
 
Home Sales Rose 2.7% in November
Sales of existing homes rose in November to their second-strongest rate ever, energized by optimistic consumers, low mortgage rates and job gains. The National Association of Realtors said that sales of existing homes increased 2.7 percent last month, to an annual rate of 4.90 million units, close to the record pace of 4.91 million units in July. For all of 1998, the association expects sales of existing homes to set an annual record for the third consecutive year. C2.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,320.98 up 94.23
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.09% down 0.06
The Dollar -- 115.53 yen down 0.37
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows percent change in leading indicators, from May through October. Expected November figure: +0.4%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: HO (PAR) (84%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (53%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); LMT (NYSE) (51%); NOC (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); NAICS238210 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS & OTHER WIRING INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS (63%); NAICS237130 POWER & COMMUNICATION LINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (63%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (53%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (51%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

COMPANY: THALES SA (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%); TELENT LTD (63%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (51%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (51%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (58%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (58%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EURO (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (87%); MORTGAGE LOANS (87%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (86%); AUCTIONS (86%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); STATISTICS (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); MERGERS (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); 

PERSON: JAMES R TOBIN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



637 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 
2 Khmer Rouge Apologize For Reign of Terror
Khieu Samphan, a top leader of the Khmer Rouge, muttered an apology for the suffering he had caused the Cambodian people. But he also urged Cambodians to "let bygones be bygones" regarding the deaths of more than a million people between 1975 and 1979, when the Khmer Rouge ruled Cambodia and he was head of state. A second Khmer Rouge leader, Nuon Chea, also expressed regret for the loss of life of people and "all animals that suffered because of the war." The apologies were prompted by aggressive questioning at a news conference. A3
 
Countdown for the Euro
Eleven European countries will lock their exchange rates to the euro tomorrow and cede to the new European Central Bank the power to set interest rates and monetary policy, in preparation for the forthcoming adoption of the euro as their unified currency. The euro is currently worth about $1.17. A1 

China Sentences Dissidents
Chinese officials reinforced efforts to silence political opposition by sentencing two New York-based dissidents to three years in a labor camp. The men recently sneaked back into China to work to promote democratic change. A5
 
Iraq Defiant on No-Flight Zone
Iraq said it would fly over the large swaths of the country where the United States and its allies bar Iraqi aircraft. The Pentagon said that Iraq had not yet provoked a military confrontation. A6
 
Indonesian General's Vow
The head of Indonesia's armed forces, Gen. Wiranto, has pledged that the military will be neutral and not try to influence national elections next year. The armed forces' chief said the military, which has played a crucial role in Indonesia's politics, would "keep an equal distance to anyone," including the governing Golkar party, as well as opposition parties. A5
 
Hostages Killed in Yemen
Three Britons and an Australian died when Yemeni security forces stormed the stronghold of Islamic militants who kidnapped 16 foreign tourists on Monday. A9
 
Cyprus Cancels Deployment
President Glafcos Clerides said he was canceling plans to deploy Russian-made missiles on Cyprus. Greek and Cypriot officials met earlier in Athens for talks intended to defuse the political crisis over the missiles. A8
 
Successful Curfew in Britain
Hamilton, Scotland, has won almost unanimous approval from parents for its curfew on young people. It is the first community in Britain to adopt such a policy, and studies credit it with cutting crime sharply. Hamilton's plan is being used as a model for programs elsewhere in Britain and has drawn inquiries from law-enforcement agencies in a number of European countries. A4
 
World Briefing A4
 
NATIONAL A10-15
 
Welfare-to-Work Plan Is Showing Early Success
The first official data from the Federal Government show that most states are meeting the work requirements of the 1996 welfare law, which stipulate that roughly 25 percent of recipients hold jobs or actively prepare themselves for work, Administration officials said. The data show that 28 percent of adults on the welfare rolls are engaged in some sort of work activity, but experts say it is uncertain whether states will be able to achieve the goal for the year 2002, when half of all adult welfare recipients are supposed to be working. A1
 
No Consensus on Witnesses
The Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, and the 13 House Republicans planning to prosecute an impeachment trial of President Clinton in the Senate clashed over whether to call any witnesses. Senator Lott also proposed beginning the Senate trial on Jan. 11, after initial procedural steps next week, and finishing within two weeks, a timetable many Democrats dismissed as overly optimistic. White House aides were pleased with Senator Lott's plan, though they have not formally agreed to it. A1
 
McCain to Test the Waters
Senator John McCain of Arizona plans to announce today that he will form an exploratory committee to begin soliciting money for a Presidential bid, a move that his advisers say makes it all but certain that he will seek the Republican nomination. A14
 
Pesticide Pamphlet Criticized
The E.P.A., under pressure from the food industry, has modified a new consumer brochure about pesticides, putting less emphasis on their health risks and barely mentioning organic foods as an alternative to foods grown using toxic chemicals. A10
 
Inquiry Into Woman's Death
The District Attorney in Riverside County, Calif., is investigating the police shooting of a woman who appeared to have been sleeping in her car early Monday with a pistol on her lap. She and the car were struck by as many as two dozen bullets. A10
 
Pregnant Students Win Ruling
A Federal court ordered the National Honor Society to admit two Kentucky students who were denied membership because they became pregnant. A15
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
2 Deadly Fires Renew Interest in Sprinklers
Two recent deadly fires in high-rise apartment buildings have prompted the Giuliani administration and the New York City Council to consider legislation that would require sprinkler systems in at least some residential buildings. A1
 
New Bus Rules Weighed
Federal regulators and lawmakers in New York and New Jersey are considering a variety of tough new rules and enforcement measures for tour buses. B1
 
Brooklyn Shelter to Proceed
City officials said they were standing by their plan to evict a state-run psychiatric center from a city-owned building in Brooklyn and open a homeless shelter there. B1
 
Casino Proposal Supported
The eastern office of the Federal Bureau of Indian Affairs endorsed a proposal by the St. Regis Mohawks to run a $500 million casino at the Monticello Raceway, in the Catskills. B2
 
Debate Over Charter Schools
A legislator who helped negotiate New York State's charter school law, a civil liberties group and a teachers' union raised questions about plans by some ministers and religious groups to seek public money to establish secular charter schools. B3
 
McCall Unlikely to Seek Senate
State Comptroller H. Carl McCall has decided not to run for the Senate in 2000, officials familiar with his thinking said. B5
 
NEEDIEST CASES B5
 
EDUCATION B7
 
ARTS E1-12
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES B8
 
Gloria Marie Stradtner
Long a savior to thousands of pets abandoned in New York City cemeteries, she was 72. B8
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-18
 
Russia Skips a Payment
Russia failed to make a $362 million payment on Soviet-era debt that it owes to commercial banks around the world, a move that American officials, the I.M.F. and lenders to Russia fear may signal a growing movement in Moscow to simply default on the country's obligations. C1
 
Stocks Continue Uphill March
Stock prices rose for the eighth consecutive trading day, the longest winning streak in more than two years. The S.& P. 500 and the Nasdaq again reached new highs, and the Dow rose 94.23 points, to 9,320.98. That is less than 55 points below its record high, which was set on Nov. 23. C1
 
The Nasdaq composite index, long home to the market's hottest technology stocks, has risen nearly 39 percent this year, far outpacing other major market averages. C1
 
Rate Increase in Japan
Five major Japanese banks said they would raise mortgage rates next month by as much as eight-tenths of a percentage point, a sign that rising interest rates in Japan would squeeze the already embattled Japanese consumer. C4
 
Business Digest C1
 
DINING F1-10
 
EDITORIAL A16-17
 
Editorials: A safer New York; wrong partner for Russia; Floyd Norris on economic forecasts.
Columns: Maureen Dowd, Frank Rich.
 
Crossword E12
 
Weather D5
 
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); INDONESIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); CYPRUS (93%); CHINA (93%); YEMEN (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (50%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMBODIA (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); INDONESIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); CYPRUS (93%); CHINA (93%); YEMEN (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); GENOCIDE (90%); POLITICS (89%); ARMED FORCES (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); EURO (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (74%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); SENTENCING (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (63%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



638 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: MOST STATES MEET WORK REQUIREMENT OF WELFARE LAW

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29

 BODY:
The first official data from the Federal Government show that most states are meeting the work requirements of the 1996 welfare law, which stipulate that roughly 25 percent of recipients hold jobs or actively prepare themselves for work, Administration officials said today.
The data show that 28 percent of adults on the welfare rolls are engaged in some sort of work activity, but experts say it is uncertain whether states will be able to achieve the goal for the year 2002, when half of adult welfare recipients are supposed to be working. 
 "The welfare reform law was designed to promote work, and that's exactly what's happening," said President Clinton's chief domestic policy adviser, Bruce N. Reed. "More people on welfare are working, and more people are leaving welfare to go to work."
The new data attest to the work effort of welfare recipients but do not show whether people who leave welfare have found good jobs, as Congress intended. Jodie Levin-Epstein, a welfare expert at the Center for Law and Social Policy, a research and advocacy group, sounded a note of caution.
"There's an assumption that any job is a step up the ladder, and that's true for some welfare recipients," she said. "But many people get stuck on the first rung of the ladder and remain in poverty because the jobs do not lead to higher wages, even over many years."
Figures to be sent to Congress later this week show all 36 of the states reporting data for 1997 met the work requirement, with work participation rates ranging from 13.5 percent in Louisiana to 96.7 percent in Oregon. New York State, with 27.9 percent of its adult welfare recipients working in 1997, was right around the national average. Connecticut, at 58.4 percent, was far above the average, while New Jersey, at 20.7 percent, was below. New York has about one-tenth of the nation's welfare families, and slightly more than two-thirds of the state's welfare recipients live in New York City. Data for 14 states were unavailable, incomplete or unverified.
The 1996 law reversed six decades of social welfare policy, eliminated the Federal guarantee of cash assistance for the nation's poorest children and gave states vast new authority to run their own welfare and work programs with lump sums of Federal money. Public attention has focused on one objective of the law, reducing the number of welfare recipients, but a related objective was to insure that people who still remain on the welfare rolls would work.
In general, the law stipulates that adults must be working in no fewer than 25 percent of the families on welfare, or else states are subject to financial penalties. This figure rises by 5 percentage points a year, to 50 percent in 2002.
Under the 1996 law, states get credit for reducing the number of people on welfare. The Federal work requirements are reduced, or liberalized, for states that have reduced their welfare rolls since 1995, as almost all states have. Nationwide, the number of people on welfare has dropped by nearly one-third, to 8.4 million, since August 1996, when the welfare bill was signed.
At that time, many welfare experts doubted that the states could meet the law's work requirements. State officials say doing so required fundamental changes in the expectations of welfare recipients and the culture of welfare offices, shifting the focus from the issuance of checks to employment and jobs.
In 10 states, fewer than 25 percent of the adult welfare recipients were working in 1997, but the states still met the law's requirements, because these states reduced their welfare rolls and were rewarded by having the number of welfare recipients required to hold jobs lowered.
States in this category include California, with a work participation rate of 20.6 percent, Georgia (20.6 percent), Louisiana (13.5 percent), Maryland (18.3 percent), Mississippi (17.2 percent) and Texas (19.4 percent).
Iowa, Oregon, Wisconsin and Wyoming were among the "high performers." In each of these states, as in Connecticut, more than half of the adult welfare recipients were working or participating in work activities.
Valerie R. Marino, acting commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Social Services, said the state had a strong economy and had helped people move from welfare to work by providing Medicaid, child care, rental assistance and transportation services. Ms. Marino said the 1996 law provided "a sense of empowerment, allowing people to realize that they could do something productive with their lives."
James D. Neely, deputy director of Oregon's welfare program, said the state had enforced stringent work requirements since the early 1990's and had spent "a substantial amount of state money, over and above what we had to spend," to help people move from welfare to work. "Anybody who comes through the door has to work or perform some activity to get ready for work as soon as possible," Mr. Neely said.
Presumably, welfare experts said, people who remain on the rolls will be harder to place in jobs because they have fewer skills, less education and less work experience, and are more likely to have physical or mental impairments.
On the other hand, states will have more money to spend on training and preparing each person who remains on the rolls, because the amount of the Federal grant for each state is fixed even though the welfare rolls are plummeting.
Very few welfare recipients are exempt from the work requirements of the 1996 law. States may, if they choose, exempt single parents caring for children under 1 year old."
While most states have been focusing on the numerical goals for employment of welfare recipients in general, the 1996 law set separate goals for two-parent families, and many states have failed to meet these goals.
Nationwide, 34 percent of two-parent families were working or participating in work activities in 1997. The basic goal, set by the 1996 law, was that 75 percent of such families should have been working in 1997, but the specific goal for each state was adjusted to give states credit for reducing their welfare rolls. A family was in compliance if one parent, or both parents together, worked 35 hours a week.
Of the 32 states reporting data on two-parent families, 17 failed to meet their goals, even after the goals were reduced. Two-parent families account for a small proportion of all welfare families, just 7 percent of the national total.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Welfare Families With Working Parents"
The percentage of families on welfare in 1997 in which at least one parent was working. Data for 14 states were unavailable, incomplete or unverified.
 
Alabama: 42.3
Arizona: 25.3
California: 20.6
Connecticut: 58.4
Dist. of Columbia: 31.3
Florida: 28.4
Georgia: 20.6
Indiana: 25.3
Iowa: 52.8
Kansas: 33.3
Kentucky: 33.1
Louisiana: 13.5
Maine: 41.6
Maryland: 18.3
Massachusetts: 31.5
Michigan: 41.1
Mississippi: 17.2
Missouri: 23.2
Montana: 49.5
Nebraska: 34.0
Nevada: 31.0
New Hampshire: 36.1
New Jersey: 20.7
New York: 27.9
North Carolina: 25.9
Ohio: 38.3
Oklahoma: 27.8
Oregon: 96.7
South Carolina: 38.9
South Dakota: 44.8
Tennessee: 38.6
Texas: 19.4
Utah: 39.6
Virginia: 17.3
Washington: 24.0
Wisconsin: 52.8
Wyoming: 52.6
 
(Source: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, from data submitted by states.)(pg. A12)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (59%); CENTER FOR LAW & SOCIAL POLICY (55%); CENTER FOR LAW & SOCIAL POLICY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (59%); CENTER FOR LAW & SOCIAL POLICY (55%); CENTER FOR LAW & SOCIAL POLICY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; STATES (US) PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (78%); STATISTICS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



639 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2296 words

HEADLINE: In the Rural White South, Seeds of a Biracial Politics

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: TY TY, Ga.

 BODY:
Ten years ago, Wayne Williams, a peanut farmer here, would no more have considered voting for a black man for Congress than he would have planted his crop in the chill of December.
Louie Perry Jr., down in Colquitt County, felt pretty much the same way. So did J. L. Tillman and, truth be told, most every other white farmer who tills the clay of southwest Georgia. But in last month's election, Mr. Williams, Mr. Perry, Mr. Tillman and tens of thousands of others voted enthusiastically for Representative Sanford D. Bishop Jr., a moderate black Democrat who won re-election convincingly in a rural, conservative district where nearly two-thirds of the voters are white. 
 Mr. Bishop won almost 4 out of every 10 white votes in the Second District of Georgia, an achievement that would have been inconceivable a few years ago. By comparison, David N. Dinkins won just a fourth of the white vote in 1989, when he was elected the first black mayor of New York City.
Many of Mr. Bishop's white supporters acknowledge they had to overcome deep prejudices to vote for him. "I just wouldn't have thought a black man would know enough to do the job," Mr. Williams explained. Other white farmers referred to the Congressman matter-of-factly with the coarsest of racial epithets before explaining what it was they liked so much about him.
That may seem a perverse compliment. But whatever whites want to call Mr. Bishop, their willingness to vote for him may signify one of the most hopeful developments in Southern politics in decades. Many black politicians have managed to attract white support in urban, New South areas like Atlanta. But Mr. Bishop's electoral success suggests that even in the most rural and impoverished districts, a significant number of white Southerners can overcome race as an absolute obstacle to voting for a black politician who shares their thinking, votes their interests and hauls home plenty of pork.
For years, the unwillingness of such whites to vote for blacks has been the cornerstone of redistricting policies intended to maximize minority representation. As legislatures prepare to reconstitute Congress after the 2000 census, the opponents of such redistricting view Mr. Bishop as the most compelling evidence that black candidates can win in white districts. Conversely, those who support race-based redistricting attribute Mr. Bishop's success to his incumbency, which was gained in a majority black district before the Supreme Court ordered a remapping in 1992.
Mr. Bishop's story does not mean that racism is dead in southwest Georgia. Nor does it mean that there are no longer deep racial disparities in the rural South in income, housing, education and health care. But it does suggest, some three decades after the culmination of the civil rights movement, that the racial bitterness born of forced desegregation has started to fade, and that old prejudices are giving way to a more pragmatic politics of racial cooperation and interdependence.
"There's no revolution that's occurred down here," said Thomas C. Chatmon Jr., the son of a black civil rights pioneer who has been selected by the power structure in Albany, the largest city in the Second District, to direct a downtown redevelopment effort. "It doesn't show that whites or blacks are willing to be colorblind. But what it does show is that southwest Georgians are willing to cohabitate, are willing to work together, that they know that there must be compromise on both sides in order to move together on our collective agenda. That's the reality. And absolutely that is progress."
 
Race Gives Way To Self-Interest
It is hard not to see a measure of progress here in the gradual subjugation of race by the more natural politics of self-interest. During Mr. Bishop's three terms in Congress, large numbers of white south Georgians have concluded that his accessibility and his influence -- particularly with other black Democrats in the House -- far outweigh any consideration of race.
"To start with I wasn't wild about him, because he was black," explained Mr. Williams, 55, a lanky third-generation farmer who grows peanuts and tobacco on 84 acres here. "So many black people around here, you just can't count on them. But he went around and made some talks and we liked the way he talked. I've met him twice and he talks to you, not above your head. If you have a problem, he'll help you out with it."
Mr. Bishop has earned the fealty of white constituents through his aggressive advocacy for Federal farm programs, balanced budgets, welfare reform, school prayer and gun ownership. To suit his district, he has switched positions on issues like the assault weapons ban, which he first supported and later opposed. He advertises himself as a conservative, and reinforced that claim by becoming the only black member of the right-leaning Democratic caucus known as the Blue Dogs.
Mr. Bishop has also put his white constituents at ease with an affable, nonthreatening manner and a determined resistance to playing the firebrand on racial issues. He has protected military bases, secured financing for road widenings and historical sites, and become a regular at local events like the Big Pig Jig in Vienna and the Rattlesnake Roundup in Whigham. He has even joined the National Rifle Association and taken up bird hunting, although his farmer friends report that the doves are never safer than when Mr. Bishop is walking the brush.
Like many of his constituents, James Lee Adams Jr., a prominent white farmer in Camilla, said that Mr. Bishop made a lasting impression by using his seat on the Agriculture Committee to persuade black Democrats and urban Northerners to preserve Federal price supports for peanuts in 1996.
"It's questionable whether it would have survived without the votes he brought to it," said Mr. Adams, who is chairman of the agency that administers Federal farm programs in Georgia. He added: "I think most of us have gotten beyond the white and black issue. We prefer to focus on the green."
Mr. Tillman, 70, who farms cotton and peanuts just south of Moultrie, also cited the peanut program in explaining his support for Mr. Bishop. "Now when he came in, he didn't know a thing about peanuts, probably thought they grew on trees," Mr. Tillman said. "But he's educated himself."
How did Mr. Tillman feel about voting for a black man? "A nigger?" he asked, finishing the question. "I couldn't have seen doing it before, wouldn't even have thought about it. But I think he's done a lot for farmers, more than any of them up there in a long time."
Similarly, Mr. Perry recalled getting a telephone call two years ago from a friend who urged him to support Mr. Bishop's Republican opponent. "He said, 'What would your Daddy say if he knew you were voting for a black person?' " Mr. Perry said. "I said, 'Well, he would think I was pretty smart if he knew the man was helping us.' "
That is precisely the message that Mr. Bishop, 51, has promoted in campaigns.
"There were people who never would have imagined voting for me, who didn't vote for me the first time," he said. "But the majority vote their pocketbooks. They understand the precarious situation that the farming community is in and they'll support people that help them." He added, "That was actually the key element of Dr. King's dream, that blacks could be known by the content of their character rather than the color of their skin."
 
An Unlikely Landscape For a Proving Ground
Nine blacks were elected to Congress from majority white districts this year, including several, like Representatives Cynthia A. McKinney of suburban Atlanta and Melvin L. Watt of Charlotte, N.C., who won with notable white support. But none won in a more unlikely place than the Second District of Georgia. Only 36 percent of the district's registered voters are black. The largest city, Albany, has but 78,000 residents. While the 31-county district remains marginally Democratic, whites now support Republicans regularly.
The landscape here is a patchwork of pecan groves, cotton and peanut fields and quail-hunting plantations interspersed with small towns built around courthouse squares and cotton gins. This time of year, with the cotton crop just in, white tufts litter the roadsides. Blue harvesters churn through the pecan groves, sucking fallen nuts off the ground and spewing out a mulch of twigs and leaves.
Much of this land was first cleared and planted by slaves, and the phrase "plantation mentality" still resonates with many blacks. It was in Albany, where asphalt turned to dirt when white neighborhoods turned to black, that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. encountered some of the staunchest resistance to the civil rights movement. And while south Georgia now has black police chiefs and county commissioners, time has not eased all tensions.
In Albany, for instance, whites and blacks have feuded over whether to rename Jefferson Street for Dr. King. A black-majority City Commission approved the change in 1996. Two months after the signs went up, a newly elected white-majority commission ordered them down.
And yet there are signs of increasing sensitivity. A new civil rights museum in Albany opened in November with biracial backing. A number of the city's civic leaders have started to meet regularly to discuss racial issues, with one group calling itself White Men Coming to Terms With Our Own Racism.
But churches and country clubs remain largely segregated, and whites tend to move out of neighborhoods that become more than 20 percent black, said Michael D. Rogers, a business professor at Albany State University who leads the city's Coalition for Diversity. And blacks in the Second District, the poorest district in the state, are nearly twice as likely as whites to have dropped out of school, more than three times as likely to live in poverty and more than 10 times as likely to live in homes without adequate plumbing, census figures show.
 
A Firm Foundation In Civil Rights
 On paper, Mr. Bishop might not seem a natural fit with the farmers of southwest Georgia. He was reared in Mobile, Ala., the son of a black college president who demanded that his students register to vote. At age 10, he defied a Mobile bus driver by sitting in the whites-only section of an otherwise empty bus.
At Morehouse College in Atlanta, Mr. Bishop became an admirer of Dr. King, the college's most famous graduate. He marched in a downtown civil rights demonstration, served as student-body president in 1968, the year that Dr. King was assassinated, and sang with the Morehouse glee club at his funeral. After graduating from Emory Law School, he joined the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund in New York City, and later accepted N.A.A.C.P. help in establishing a civil rights law firm in Columbus, Ga.
Mr. Bishop served in Georgia's General Assembly from 1977 to 1992, the year he first ran for Congress. The state Legislature, encouraged by the Bush Administration to create majority black districts, had designed a Second District where the voting-age population was 52 percent black. Mr. Bishop defeated a vulnerable white incumbent in the Democratic primary, and then cruised to victory in the general election. He won re-election easily in 1994.
But by 1996 new lines had been drawn by Federal judges after the Supreme Court ruled it was unconstitutional to use race as a dominant factor in redistricting. By redrawing the lines to eliminate concentrations of blacks in Macon and Columbus, where Mr. Bishop lived, the judges reduced the district's black voting-age population to 35 percent.
 
Redistricting: A Test Both For and Against
Mr. Bishop moved to Albany and won anyway, with 54 percent of the vote and an estimated 36 percent of the white vote. This year, against a capable and adequately financed Republican opponent, Joe McCormick, he polled even better, winning 57 percent of the total vote, an estimated 38 percent of the white vote and 98 percent of the black vote, according to an analysis by Charles S. Bullock 3d, a University of Georgia political scientist.
Mr. Bishop did not, however, do as well with white voters as some white Democratic candidates. For example, in the 12 Colquitt County precincts where at least 90 percent of the registered voters were white, Governor-elect Roy E. Barnes won 53 percent of the vote and Mr. Bishop won 41 percent.
Still, A. Lee Parks Jr., the Atlanta lawyer who successfully challenged the racial foundation of Georgia's redistricting plan, said Mr. Bishop proved that blacks could be elected to Congress "without racially biased districts."
"Sanford actually represents people without regard to race, and when he does that people forget his race," Mr. Parks said.
Many black politicians, he said, alienate white voters by "communicating that they prefer their black constituents, that their priority is serving their black constituents. Often that's what polarizes elections on racial lines."
Supporters of race-based redistricting counter that voting remained racially polarized in Mr. Bishop's last two elections. And they emphasize that a crucial advantage for candidates like Mr. Bishop was that he was first elected in a majority black district and then took the benefits of incumbency to his new white district.
"I'm not ready to conclude that we are suddenly a race-blind electorate," said Laughlin McDonald, director of the Southern office of the American Civil Liberties Union. Mr. Adams, the farmer from Moultrie, put it a different way.
"We haven't arrived yet," he said. "I don't know if you ever arrive, if you ever wipe every vestige from your mind. But what's most important sometimes is what direction you're going."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A constituent greeted Representative Sanford D. Bishop Jr. as the Georgia Congressman headed to a Christmas parade in Cairo, Ga., early this month. In November, Mr. Bishop was elected to his fourth term. (Reggie Grant for The New York Times)(pg. A12)
 
Graph: "AT A GLANCE: Georgia's Second Congressional District"
 
ECONOMICS (1990)
 
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME -- $20,938
 
PER CAPITA INCOME
WHITE -- $12,602
BLACK -- 5,529
 
PEOPLE IN POVERTY -- 24%
WHITE -- 12%
BLACK -- 43%
 
EDUCATION (1990)
 
ADULTS 25 AND OVER WITH HIGH SCHOOL DEGREE -- 62%
WHITE -- 71%
BLACK -- 44%
 
1996 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
CLINTON -- 49%
DOLE -- 44%
PEROT -- 7%
 
1998 CONGRESSIONAL ELECTION
BISHOP (D) -- 57%
McCORMICK (R) -- 43%
 
DEMOGRAPHICS (1990)
 
POPULATION -- 591,681
 
RACE
WHITE -- 60%
BLACK -- 39%
OTHER -- 1%
 
REGISTERED VOTERS -- 306,812
WHITE -- 64%
BLACK -- 36%
 
(Sources: Census Bureau; The Almanac of American Politics 1998)(pg. A12)
 
Map showing the location of Georgia's Second Congressional District. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; SOUTHERN STATES (US); GEORGIA; UNITED STATES (95%); GEORGIA, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BLACKS ELECTIONS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); REDISTRICTING (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); PEANUT FARMING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); MAYORS (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (70%); CENSUS (64%); EVIDENCE (60%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; BISHOP, SANFORD (REPR) SANFORD D BISHOP JR (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



640 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1987 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW EUROPE: Money That Binds;
Primer on Euro: From Birth To Growth as Unifying Force

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: STRASBOURG, France, Dec. 29

 BODY:
This border city in Alsace-Lorraine has been French and then German and now French again, depending on who won the last war. But today it is a placid outpost in a more unified Europe: a home for the European Parliament, and a mecca for cross-border shoppers.
So it is not surprising that the European single currency, the euro, arrived here well before its official introduction this Friday. At the Cora supermarket, everything from bananas to televisions have been priced in euros (as well as in French francs) for months. At upscale restaurants like Roma, euro-pricing on menus is a fashion must. 
 And residents like Michel Raymond, who shops for Grand Marnier in France but for port wine in Germany, are opening euro checking accounts right after the New Year. "It will make things simpler for everybody," said Mr. Raymond, a retired French businessman. "Some things are cheaper here and others are cheaper on the German side. This will make the payments easier."
After decades of dreams, diplomacy and delays, the euro is suddenly real. On Thursday 11 European countries are to lock their exchange rates to the euro, now worth about $1.17, and cede to the new European Central Bank the power to set interest rates and monetary policy.
On the street it may look as if little has happened. But currency conversion represents the most important step in Europe's long quest for political unity. In getting to this point, the 11 euro nations for the first time have adopted a common economic policy that has reined in public spending, reduced debt and tamed inflation.
This achievement has seriously altered the political debate; indeed, governments in Germany, France and Italy have fallen in large part because of the spending cutbacks required to create the euro. Business strategy has been transformed, and more residents and visitors are thinking of Europe as a single place instead of a jigsaw of nationalities and a hodge-podge of currencies and laws.
Today's German marks, French francs, Italian lire and eight other currencies may be used for three and a half years more. (Euro notes and coins arrive on Jan. 1, 2002.) Local currencies are to be removed from circulation by July 1, 2002.
European stock and bond trades will be denominated entirely in euros, starting on Monday. All transactions between banks, which is frequently how Europeans pay their bills, will be in euros, even within the same country. Bank customers can write checks in euros, and many credit-card purchases will be calculated in euros. Euro travelers checks are coming.
Though Americans are largely bystanders, the euro will affect them, too. Travelers will be spared the necessity of changing dollars into different currencies, and currency risks will be reduced for money managers. That alone is expected to yield substantial savings.
While the euro was once viewed as a weakling because of doubts that Spain and Italy would have the discipline to get into fiscal trim, all signs now suggest that the euro will start off strong and may come to rival the dollar as a reserve currency held by central banks around the world. If that happens, economists say, it could push up American interest rates slightly. It could also make European goods more expensive for Americans.
The new currency may also be a means for Europe to compete more strongly with the United States: The move to a unified market and a single currency has forced the transformation of Europe's biggest industries. Many are merging with rivals to cut costs; others are selling businesses to refocus on their strengths. And quite a few, like DaimlerChrysler A.G., have been doing both.
One major country that is not party to the euro is Britain, which has always viewed itself as separate from Europe. It is taking a wait-and-see attitude because of public fears that using the euro would erode Britain's independence.
British businesses definitely favor the currency, however, and worry that they will suffer a disadvantage by holding on to the pound.
But Prime Minister Tony Blair insists that Britain will consider using the euro after the next round of national elections, which are likely by 2002, and only after a national referendum.
 
The Origins
Postwar Dreams, Post-Cold-War Fact
Why did the 11 other nations go to all the trouble?
The idea of a single currency dates back to the 1950's, when postwar diplomats like Jean Monnet, president of a precursor to the European Union, sketched out sweeping visions for economic and political unification. The idea was that the more each nation relied on the others for economic and political security, the more reluctant they would be to send their armies into battle.
But the real impetus came with the fall of the Berlin wall in 1989. The prospect of a reunited German powerhouse alarmed many Western European governments, and Francois Mitterrand, then the President of France, pressed his German counterpart, Helmut Kohl: France would support the reunification if Mr. Kohl would commit his Government to replacing the mark with a single currency administered by an independent central bank.
"After reunification, a lot of the neighbors around Germany were afraid that it might become politically and economically too strong," said Peter Wolf-Koppen, who oversees euro projects at Commerzbank in Frankfurt. "They first tried to make a political union, but they failed. A monetary union was the best they could do."
Mr. Kohl quickly became the euro's strongest champion, driven in part by memories of World War II.
"I have often been told that the euro was a technocratic idea, invented by finance ministers," remarked Christian Noyer, vice president of the European Central Bank. "That is clearly not the case. They had the simple idea that the money, the currency that people use every day, was a way to foster integration."
Two years after the fall of the wall, in the Dutch city of Maastricht, European leaders reached a basic accord, with a strongly German imprint. Countries would have to meet strict limits on deficits and would have to bring inflation down to Germany's level, about 3 percent.
But the Bundesbank, the influential German central bank, would take a back seat to an independent European Central Bank, which would focus on fighting inflation.
The euro's proponents argue that it will make Europe more efficient and competitive because pricing differences will stand out. Trade will be enhanced because foreign-exchange risks will be minimal. (Europe abolished most tariffs and other trade restrictions six years ago.)
But more important, supporters predict that the greater attention to prices will force cost-cutting by manufacturers. And while that may contribute to Europe's high unemployment, it may also initiate much-needed changes in costly regulations that hinder competitiveness today.
"This can work like a reform program for Europe, and be very good for the competitiveness of Europe," said Jurgen Stark, vice president of the Bundesbank. "On the one hand it is a great political challenge. But on the other it is a great opportunity for Europe to combine sound monetary and fiscal policy with more flexibility."
 
The Change-Over
Banks and Stores Do the Arithmetic
In many respects, the euro will seem at first like a phantom currency because notes and coins will not circulate until Jan. 1, 2002, to give buyers and merchants time to adjust. And while euros will be usable beginning Monday in the ether of electronic payments, nobody can be forced to accept them before 2002.
Many bankers argue that the long transition period makes the process needlessly costly and complicated. Instead of just converting to a new currency, banks have to change first to a system of dual currencies that will become obsolete in 2002.
Deutsche Bank, Germany's biggest bank, says it will spend more than $200 million on the conversion during the next four years. "The dual currency makes it much more expensive," said Peter Wolf-Koppen, at Commerzbank in Frankfurt.
But merchants are reaching very different conclusions about how soon to price goods in euros.
In France, supermarkets like Le Clerc and Caro are already posting all prices in euros. In Germany, where many are still hostile to trading in their solid marks for untested euros, big retailers are moving more slowly; most plan to post dual prices on some items right away, but they are reluctant to make a full conversion in 1999.
For the moment, managers at the Cora hypermarket simply steer attention away from the euro price. A big sign promoting a widescreen television announces a price in French francs: FF 7,990.00. The euro price -- e 1,206.97 -- is printed in only small letters on the price tag.
In part because of marketing uncertainties, some consumer-product companies are delaying the switch.
"We're going to let someone else find out the answers on how to teach consumers about the euro," said Peter Csandi, a spokesman for Adidas, the sportswear company. "We don't intend to be pioneers."
But a growing number of Europe's biggest industrial companies are converting rapidly, convinced they can quickly recoup the cost by saving money on foreign-exchange dealings. DaimlerChrysler and Siemens plan to convert all their business systems early next year. They are also pressing suppliers to bill in euros, which is likely to speed up acceptance.
 
The Future
Not by Euros Alone Do Economies Live
The euro has confounded naysayers ever since European leaders laid down the timetable in the early 1990's. As recently as four years ago, many were convinced that few countries would overcome national pride to abandon their currencies.
When it became increasingly clear that monetary union would occur, most assumed that it would be limited to about eight "core" countries, led by Germany and France. But Europe's poorer and shakier countries -- Italy, Spain and Portugal -- started clamoring to join the club. And to the amazement of many, they brought their budget deficits and inflation rates down enough.
But there could be some nasty surprises. Economic growth is uneven. There are inflation risks in fast-growing countries like Spain and Ireland; at the same time, growth is slowing in countries like Germany and France, where unemployment rates remain above 10 percent.
The challenge for the new central bank is to set uniform interest rates that will foster growth everywhere.
The political landscape has also changed profoundly. Some leading politicians who pushed for the euro are out of power now, casualties of voters' objections to relentless budget cutting, especially on social programs. New governments in Germany, Italy and France are not so beholden to the rules set out to create the euro.
After Mr. Kohl and his center-right coalition were defeated last September by Gerhard Schroder and the left-of-center Social Democratic Party, the new Finance Minister, Oskar Lafontaine, quickly became a vocal critic of both the Bundesbank and the European Central Bank. He argued that tight-money policies brought about by the euro were the real reason that European unemployment mostly remains high.
Under the Maastricht Treaty, political leaders have no authority over the European Central Bank, which is led by a former Dutch central banker, Wim Duisenberg. And a separate treaty calls for huge fines on governments whose spending generates deficits of more than 3 percent of gross domestic product. The rules also say that once a nation enters the euro union, it cannot withdraw.
In practice, many experts are skeptical that European leaders would impose such punishments.
"Countries have to realize that the misbehaviors of one country can damage all the others," said Mr. Stark, the Bundesbank official. "If a big country runs a high deficit, it is pretty clear the European Central Bank will have to react with a rate increase."

GRAPHIC: Photo: New currencies confuse people, too. CCF bank in Paris asks: "The euro is here -- what should you do after today? Come talk to your adviser." (Jean-Erik Pasquier/Rapho, for The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 
Chart: "A Euro Guide"
With the euro, 11 countries in Europe will have essentially the same inflation targets, interest rates and economic policy goals. Most likely, trade will increase within Europe as the costs and headaches of foreign-exchange risks are eliminated.
 
What happens January 1999 . . .
-- The euro is officially introduced and the conversion rates of participating countries will be fixed.
-- Banks and stock exchanges will carry out transactions in euros and banks will offer customers euro-denominated accounts.
-- A single monetary policy will be decided by the new European Central Bank, whose board includes the president of every central bank participating in the euro.
 
 . . . and beyond
BY JAN. 1, 2002
Euro bills and coins go into circulation.
 
BY JULY 1, 2002
National bills and coins will no longer be legal tender.
 
When you're traveling
-- Price comparisons should be easier from one country to another. n Travel agents suggest using euro-denominated traveler's checks to lock in the euro-dollar exchange rate. While acceptance may vary, major hotels and stores are prepared to accept such checks and they can be exchanged for local currency.
-- Many hotels, restaurants and airlines have begun pricing in both euros and local currency. Credit cards used for euro purchases will be translated into dollars on monthly statements in the U.S.
-- For Americans with businesses or property in Europe, banks are offering euro checking accounts. Electronic transfers between banks, a common form of bill-paying in Europe, will be in euros.
 
Which countries are participating . . .
To use the euro, member states must meet criteria established by the European Union. Britain, Denmark and Sweden have opted out of the plan. Greece wants to participate but does not yet meet the criteria. Norway and Switzerland are not in the Union and not using the euro.
 
Map of Europe highlights European Union countries adopting the euro and European Union countries not adopting the euro
 
. . . and what it takes
DEFICIT
Budget deficit should be no more than three percent of gross domestic product.
 
INFLATION
Should be close to the level in three best performing countries, about three percent.
 
DEBT
Overall government debt less than 60 percent of gross domestic product.
 
(Source: European Commission)(pg. A8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); GERMANY (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); GREECE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); NORWAY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (78%); 

STATE: ALSACE, FRANCE (93%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (58%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (58%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; ITALY; GERMANY; FRANCE; EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); GERMANY (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); GREECE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); NORWAY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (78%); ALSACE, FRANCE (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES EURO (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); COINS & COINAGE (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); BONDS (71%); RISK MANAGEMENT (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (66%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (65%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (64%); COMPANY STRATEGY (62%); TRENDS (60%); BOND MARKETS (60%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



641 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
BRITAIN: CHILD PROSTITUTE AS VICTIM -- The Government issued guidelines aimed at treating child prostitutes as victims of abuse rather than as criminals and at marking their employers and clients for prosecution. The latest annual figures, for 1995-1996, show that 177 youths under 17 were convicted of prostitution and another 207 were formally cautioned. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
BRITAIN: BATONS VS. TRUNCHEONS -- The British police are being warned that the growing substitution of longer and heavier American-style batons for the 11-inch wooden truncheons traditionally carried by officers has resulted in an increased number of brutality complaints. The report from the independent Police Complaints Authority says British police forces should instruct their members in restrained use of the new weapons to reduce the possibility of serious injury. Warren Hoge (NYT) 

RUSSIA: CENTRAL BANK INVESTIGATED -- Interior Minister Sergei Stepashin said security forces were investigating the alleged loss of billions of dollars by Russia's central bank. The investigation started shortly after the Government effectively devalued the currency and defaulted on some foreign debt on Aug. 17, prompting suspicions that some bank officials might have used the crisis to fill their pockets. (Reuters)
 
RUSSIA: BODIES OF HOSTAGES RETURNED -- After a long search and difficult negotiations, the bodies of four Western hostages kidnapped and murdered in Russia's breakaway republic of Chechnya arrived in Britain. Relatives went to Gatwick Airport to collect the remains, which were flown in from Azerbaijan's capital, Baku. (Reuters)
 
SPAIN: FORMER OFFICIALS RELEASED -- Spain's highest tribunal, the Constitutional Court, authorized the release from jail of the former Interior Minister, Jose Barrionuevo, and his deputy, Rafael Vera, while it considers their appeals. The men were convicted in July for their roles in a kidnapping in 1983 during a campaign against Basque separatist terrorists. The Government last week reduced their 10-year sentences by two-thirds. (NYT)
 
TURKEY: A RELUCTANT CONSERVATIVE -- A former Prime Minister, Tansu Ciller, head of the conservative True Path Party, has refused to join a new government, the Prime Minister-designate, Yalim Erez, said. Mrs. Ciller, who controls 99 seats in the 550-seat parliament, has been hostile to the idea of having Mr. Erez as Prime Minister. (Agence France-Presse)
 
ASIA
 
JAPAN: DIFFERENCES OVER DEFENSE -- Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi and a key opponent, Ichiro Ozawa, agreed to keep working toward a coalition government, despite their differences over Japan's defense policy. Mr. Ozawa, who defected from Mr. Obuchi's Liberal Democratic Party in 1993 to form the Liberal Party, has pushed for a new interpretation of the Constitution that would expand the participation of Japanese troops in United Nations missions. (AP)
 
INDIA: PREPARING FOR THE WORST -- Gen. R. Jayaswal, the director general of medical services for India's armed forces, told reporters that doctors and paramedics are being trained to deal with injuries sustained in a nuclear blast as well as the effects of chemical weapons. India exploded its own nuclear device in May, followed by its rival, Pakistan. Barry Bearak (NYT)
 
PAKISTAN: POST OFFICE HEROIN RING -- Pakistani authorities said they have smashed a smuggling ring in the post office that had mailed up to $1.5 billion worth of heroin out of the country over the last 13 years. Mukhtar Ahmed, regional director of Pakistan's Anti-Narcotics Force, said the ring had shipped a total of two to three tons of heroin through Pakistan's mail system. (Reuters)
 
NEW ZEALAND: GUARDING THE ROSS SEA -- New Zealand will become the first nation to mount comprehensive military surveillance of Antarctica's international waters in a bid to halt illegal fishing. Antarctic Minister Simon Upton said the Government ordered the air force to fly anti-submarine aircraft and may send a frigate to prevent ships entering the Ross Sea to fish for lucrative toothfish. The Ross Sea is claimed as a New Zealand dependency but officials said Mr. Upton's statement was not an assertion of territorial claims. (Agence France-Presse)
 
AFRICA
 
NIGERIA: FALLING OIL PRICES HURT WAGES -- Because of falling revenue from oil exports, wages in Nigeria's public service have been slashed by more than 50 percent, and the lowest paid worker now earns $35 a month, down from $61. The Government budget was based on a price of $17 dollars a barrel for crude oil, but now prices have fallen to around $9. (Agence France-Presse)
 
ZIMBABWE: A RAISE FOR GOVERNMENT WORKERS -- The cash-strapped Government has given its 162,000 workers a 25 percent pay rise beginning next month. Ignatius Chigwendere, who heads a joint negotiating forum, described the raise as a cost-of-living adjustment in light of the deteriorating economic situation in Zimbabwe.
 (Agence France-Presse)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
JORDAN: KING LEAVES HOSPITAL -- Crown Prince Hassan announced that his brother King Hussein has been cured of cancer and has left the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota. The Jordanian monarch, 63, has been treated since July 14 for cancer of the lymph glands. After undergoing six sessions of chemotherapy, the King was given a transplant from his own bone marrow. (Agence France-Presse)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
COLOMBIA: KILLER REPORTED SLAIN -- Colombia's top death squad leader, Carlos Castano, left, is believed to have died when Marxist rebels overran his mountain stronghold in the north of the country. Guerrillas of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia told journalists they had killed Mr. Castano, head of a paramilitary alliance known as the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia, in fighting that began Sunday in northern Cordoba province. (Reuters)
 
ARGENTINA: EX-OFFICER TURNS HIMSELF IN -- A fugitive former navy captain accused of kidnapping and baby-stealing during Argentina's military dictatorship has surrendered to authorities. Jorge Acosta turned himself in after an arrest warrant was issued by a judge investigating the theft of babies born to political prisoners. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SPAIN (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SPAIN (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PROSTITUTION (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (88%); SENTENCING (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); TERRORISM (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (60%); MURDER (58%); DEVALUATION (52%); 

PERSON: ICHIRO OZAWA (56%); YALIM EREZ (56%); TANSU CILLER (56%); SIMON UPTON (55%); WARREN HOGE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



642 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Catskills Casino Plan Wins Initial Approval

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Dec. 29

 BODY:

Buoying the hope that the Catskills may someday be transformed from their Borscht Belt past into a gambling destination of the future, a key Federal agency has endorsed an Indian tribe's plan to operate a $500 million casino at the Monticello Raceway.
In a memo dated Dec. 9, Brenda L. Bennett, acting director of the United States Bureau of Indian Affairs' eastern office wrote that the proposal tendered by the St. Regis Mohawks of northern New York State "satisfies all requirements" and "will positively impact the tribe and the surrounding community" by creating 3,000 new jobs. 
 The memo estimated that the casino would result in "4.4 million day trips to the area, inducing spending outside the proposed casino of $337 million." In so doing, the memo concludes, the casino "will revitalize the area's tourism industry and provide the impetus for additional tourist-related developments."
The plan still must be approved by the Bureau's headquarters in Washington. Then it must be approved by Gov. George E. Pataki, who to this point has not disclosed his leanings. "The Governor recognizes that gambling might be a valuable option for resort areas like the Catskills," said Charles H. Deister, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki. "But we're going to have to wait and see what the Federal decision is."
Even so, people who have followed the proposal closely over the last few years interpret the memo as an important, if not ultimate, hurdle to pass.
"I think it's a crucial step because the central office very seldom overrules the area office," said Philip H. Tarbell, former legislative chairman of the Mohawk Nation, who helped to draft the original casino plan. "The region will benefit, the economy will benefit and the tribe will benefit."
Neither the Washington office nor the eastern office, in Arlington, Va., returned several calls seeking comment on the agency's endorsement, which was reported yesterday in The Daily News.
As it stands, the plan calls for the construction of a 700,000-square-foot casino and convention center at Monticello Raceway, under a partnership between the Mohawks and three New York developers -- Watermark Investments, America Towers Partners and Alpha Hospitality.
Unlike many other tribes that offer gambling, the Mohawks are planning to operate a casino far from their home territory, several hundred miles to the north. The Monticello casino would be built on land placed in a trust, and not subject to taxes. The tribe would share its revenues with various local governments.
Supporters say the proposal would provide a boost to the Mohawks, who have an unemployment rate of 30 percent with a fifth of households earning less than $10,000 a year.
In Sullivan County, the casino figures to rejuvenate a region that once drew capacity crowds for its nightly feasts of live entertainment and food, but now evokes mostly memories.

GRAPHIC: Map of New York State: A casino at Monticello Raceway could create 3,000 jobs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS CATSKILLS CASINO (80%); MONTICELLO RACEWAY (76%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (83%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (83%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTICELLO (NY); CATSKILLS (NYS AREA); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; MOHAWK INDIANS; CASINOS; MONTICELLO RACEWAY; LABOR CASINOS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NATIVE AMERICANS (91%); APPROVALS (90%); GAMING (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (89%); LODGING (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); TOURISM (74%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); JOB CREATION (70%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W; BENNETT, BRENDA L; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



643 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Cut in Pension Plan

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Southern New England Telecommunications Company is cutting the interest rate the company pays into the pension plans of salaried employees. The cut, which will mean a loss of up to $10,000 a year for some employees, had been planned for years and is not the result of the company's recent takeover by SBC Corporation, company officials said Monday.
The reduction, to 3 percent from 7 percent, will go into effect after the first of the year. However, S.N.E.T. will continue to make annual contributions of as much as 10 percent of employees' salaries to the pension plan, and contributes separately to 401(k) plans. 
 The cut reportedly angered salaried employees, who worked to keep the company running during its recent strike. S.N.E.T. is Connecticut's primary telephone provider.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (89%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (89%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN NEW ENGLAND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORP; SBC CORP AT&T INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN NEW ENGLAND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORP; SBC CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (89%); NORTHEAST USA (89%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US 401K PLANS (88%); TAKEOVERS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998



644 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 8; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: GARDEN NOTEBOOK;
A Lost Canyon Beckons, And Pasadena Responds

BYLINE: By Joseph Giovannini 

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif.

 BODY:
THOUSANDS of visitors jet here to see the Rose Parade and the Rose Bowl, and tens of thousands ply Southern California's freeways to get to New Year's Day events. But then there are the happy few who simply step out of their Craftsman bungalows to head down the hiking trails of Arroyo Seco and walk to the game via the city's majestic river canyon. The ritual trip down boulder-lined stairways set among the oaks and sycamores and into the fabled wash is not a short cut but a pleasure, known primarily to residents of Pasadena.
This New Year's Day, however, Pasadena's best kept secret is different. Though the picturesque wash that Teddy Roosevelt once said should be a national park is one of the great natural features of this city, it was neglected for decades. Where the wide canyon wasn't actually barren or covered in weeds, it was invaded by flora foreign to the arroyo -- exotics like eucalyptus, acacia, castor bean and flowering plants that drove out native fauna. 
 But since the early 1990's, the arroyo -- one of the largest open natural areas in an urban setting in Los Angeles County -- has been undergoing an extensive restoration. For the first New Year's Day in memory, Pasadenans will encounter a landscape of willows, toyon, coffeeberry, elderberry, and laurel and lemonade sumac, all California natives, in a lush riparian habitat. The habitat restoration, among the most ambitious in Southern California, extends 1.8 miles from the old Colorado Street Bridge, just south of the Rose Bowl, toward the border Pasadena shares with South Pasadena -- an area of 52 acres.
Pasadena was founded in the late 19th century as a winter resort for those seeking the good life in a warm, dry climate and a healthy environment. Houses were designed with sleeping porches and terraces open to the San Gabriel Mountains and arroyo views that gave Pasadena its character. House and extended garden were at one with each other. Many of California's plain-air painters lived in homes and studios along the arroyo, which was one of their favorite subjects.
"Historically, the arroyo has been of great importance to Pasadena -- it's one of the reasons the city is where it is," said Adam Schiff, a California State Senator, on a recent tour of the arroyo. "Philosophically, the restoration of its natural beauty speaks volumes about where Pasadena is, and was."
The degradation of the natural environment was gradual. The Army Corps of Engineers rushed in after the devastating flood of 1938 and built concrete water channels down the arroyo, which controlled floods but denied water to the rest of the riverbed, drying out the vegetation that sustained native animals. In the 1950's, Pasadena went through an economic downturn and smog invaded greater Los Angeles. The city lapsed into shabby gentility.
Rumors of Pasadena's demise were exaggerated, however, and residents rallied around its historic architecture. Restoring the city's turn-of-the-century houses preserved entire neighborhoods. (Despite its humble bungalows, Pasadena was once one of the wealthiest cities, per capita, in the United States.)
Meanwhile, with better emissions controls, the smog lifted and the regal San Gabriel Mountains came out of the haze. The step from architectural restoration to the restoration of the arroyo was logical: one implied the other. "They are separate but intertwined strands of the same rope," Mr. Schiff said.
The restoration of what was in effect Pasadena's Central Park began with an environmental trade-off. In the early 1990's, Browning-Ferris Industries, the waste-disposal company, began filling a canyon about 20 miles away in the San Fernando Valley. Browning-Ferris was required by state and Federal regulations to create a comparable riparian habitat elsewhere. The company spent $5.5 million to recreate the Lower Arroyo between the Colorado Street Bridge and La Loma Bridge (two of seven magnificent concrete viaducts that span the canyon). The Arroyo Seco Foundation restored habitat south of La Loma.
"Before the concrete channel there was a whole meandering stream system working through the arroyo," said Michael Zander, head of Zander Associates, a Marin County environmental consulting concern that designed the new habitat. "What we didn't have was water." Just under the Colorado Street Bridge was a small dam. Mr. Zander designed culverts to channel the water above the dam into streams that irrigated about eight acres of the arroyo, turning arid expanses into marshland.
"We took out all the exotic grasses, flowering plants and the weeds and trees that were in the way," said City Manager Cynthia Kurtz, who oversaw the project as Pasadena's director of public works and transportation. "After a lot of research, we came up with a mix of seeds for reseeding." Willows and cattails dominate the center of the stream, and toward banks and edges, there are alder, California black walnut, sycamore, poplar, cottonwood and elderberry. Beyond the edges are native centenarian live oaks. (The designers also left full-grown exotic trees, especially the stands of eucalyptus.)
"Within a month of opening the floodgates, the birds came as if attracted by a magnet," said Rosa Laveaga, supervisor of Arroyo Seco Park. "They're drawn to the water, and to the willows and alders, which provide great nesting areas. We had an overpopulation of gophers and squirrels, which made it difficult for plants to survive, but the increase in the number of birds helps keep the rodent population down. The hawks help police the area."
From her wisteria-draped Craftsman porch overlooking the arroyo, Dianne Philibosian, president of the Arroyo Seco Foundation, witnessed the transformation. "Whole families of mallards come to the streams, and the killdeer birds have returned to nest," she said. "We've had great blue heron and egrets, and one day my niece saw a kingfisher."
With the success of their new wetlands, Pasadenans are now hoping that the remaining concrete channels can be either removed or redesigned, so that the deep, wide gash through the wash can be transformed. "We've looked at leaving the channel in place, planting the channel beds, removing and grading one of the walls, or blending the channel with the new habitats," said Tim Brick, emeritus director of the Arroyo Seco Foundation.
" 'Arroyo seco' means dry river in Spanish," Mr. Schiff said. "But the Gabrielino Indians called it Hahamongna, which means 'flowing waters, fruitful valley.' What we do now will determine whether the Indian or Spanish term is more accurate. I'd like nothing more than to see the arroyo completely returned to the Hahamongna."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A CHANNEL RUNS THROUGH IT -- And that was the problem for Pasa-dena's Arroyo Seco. (Joseph Giovannini); Now, culverts divert water from the concrete channel to a new marshland in the restored habitat. (Dennis Keeley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ACACIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ACACIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PASADENA (CALIF); ARROYO SECO (PASADENA); UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION RIVERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); HIKING (77%); RESORTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); LAND RECLAMATION (70%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (70%); ANIMALS (67%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (64%); SMOG (62%); NATURAL DISASTERS (60%); ENGINEERING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ARMIES (50%); 

PERSON: GIOVANNINI, JOSEPH ADAM B SCHIFF (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



645 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: China Reports 7.8% Growth, Close to Goal It Set for '98

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: BEIJING, Dec. 30

 BODY:
China said today that it achieved economic growth of 7.8 percent for 1998, essentially meeting the 8 percent goal set by political leaders at the beginning of the year.
In the face of "an extremely complicated international economic situation," the growth in gross domestic product this year was only 1 percent lower than the 1997 figure of 8.8 percent, a spokesman for the National Bureau of Statistics said at a news conference today. Some other Asian countries, including Japan, Indonesia and Malaysia, experienced negative growth over the year, cutting into China's trade and foreign investment. 
 With unemployment already rising as it prunes inefficient state industries, China was determined to prop up faltering economic growth, and in the second half of the year it started a major stimulus program of extra government spending and bank lending.
Many economists have been skeptical of the growth target, arguing that once top leaders set the 8 percent goal, local officials around the country would make sure it was met on paper. A Western diplomat said recently that, based on other indicators such as the slow growth in electricity use and declining retail prices, growth for the year was more likely to have been about 4 percent to 5 percent -- still an achievement compared with neighboring countries.
But the statistical bureau spokesman, Ye Zhen, insisted that the figures were credible.
"We do not rule out that in compiling data in certain regions, some figures were padded," Mr. Ye said. "But I can responsibly tell everyone that the national figures were compiled after serious checks."
Hit by the economic woes of Asian trading partners, China's formerly zooming exports leveled out this year, at about $182 billion, Mr. Ye said. But imports declined by 3.8 percent, to $137 billion, so the country had a larger trade surplus than ever of $45 billion.
China's large and growing trade surplus with the United States has become a major point of contention between the two countries.
In a worrisome indicator of low consumer spending power, the retail price index for 1998 fell by 2.6 percent.
Throughout the year, China's leaders pledged that they would not devalue of their currency to stimulate exports and growth. China has been praised by the United States and Asian countries for maintaining the value of the yuan, preventing a competitive devaluing among ailing neighbors, although some economists said that China would have gained little from devaluation in any case.
Mr. Ye repeated the pledge today, saying, "China has no need to devalue the yuan next year."
If the preliminary estimated growth rate for 1998 is valid, it means that the economy climbed steeply during the final three months of the year, probably reflecting the stimulus program.
"Accelerated investment has been a major factor spurring economic expansion," Mr. Ye said today.
Critics say that the induced spending will exact a future toll because much of it was probably wasteful -- including the buildup of inventories that will never be sold, and investments in doomed, money-losing state enterprises.
Because banks were pressured to lend huge sums quickly, in most cases to state-owned enterprises, the stimulus program also undercut the goals of revamping and cutting back state industries and improving the solvency of national banks. These banks already had to cope with large nonpaying loans to failing state companies.
But Government officials argue that they had to act on an emergency basis to prevent growth from collapsing. Without strong growth to create new jobs, they say, the restructuring of state enterprises -- which remains a prime goal -- could never proceed.
Many economists expect China's growth next year may be slightly below this year's.
Mao Yushi, an economist with the Unirule Institute of Economics, a private research group in Beijing, said he estimated 1999 growth at about 7 percent. But he warned against setting another national target.
"If the central Government sets a target," he said, "then local governments try their best to fulfill it, sometimes using false figures, or spending that brings no real improvement in the economy."
At today's news conference, Mr. Ye acknowledged the serious problems facing state-owned industries, calling their finances "not encouraging."
"We must make efforts next year to further economic reform, expand domestic demand, and stabilize and strengthen agriculture," he said, as well as to "expand exports and guard against financial risk."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT PRICES (87%); DEVALUATION (84%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%); 

PERSON: YE ZHEN (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



646 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Retreats for First Time in Nine Trading Days

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The stock market ended lower yesterday for the first time in nine trading days, weakened by investors who sold to secure some profits from a 1998 rally that accelerated at year-end.
Merck & Company, up 40 percent for the year; Lucent Technologies Inc., up 172 percent, and the Microsoft Corporation, up 115 percent, led the decline. 
 "Stocks have moved up so dramatically that money's being taken off the table," said James Margard, chief equity strategist at Rainier Investment Management in Seattle, which manages $5 billion. "Investors have recognized that some large stocks may be overvalued."
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 46.34 points, to 9,274.64, after having gained 530 points since Dec. 16. The Standard & Poor's 500 index declined 9.88 points, to 1,231.93. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 14.82 points, to 2,166.95. Advancing issues slightly outpaced those declining on the New York Stock Exchange.
With one day left in 1998, the S.& P. 500 index has soared 27 percent for the year, on track for an record fourth consecutive year of gains exceeding 20 percent. The Nasdaq composite index is up about 38 percent, and the Nasdaq 100, an index of the market's largest shares, is up 83 percent, the best year in its 14-year history.
"The market's had a tremendous run," said Peter Coolidge, senior equity trader at Brean Murray & Company, a New York brokerage firm. "There's no catalyst pushing us higher."
With many investors and traders on vacation for the year-end holidays, trading has been light this week. Monday and Tuesday's levels were about 20 percent below last week's, and 604.92 million shares changed hands yesterday, compared with a three-month average of 726 million shares.
Merck fell 2 1/4, to 148 13/16 ; Lucent dropped 3 7/16 m to 108 5/8m and Microsoft fell 1 1/2m to 139.
Internet shares fell after posting spectacular gains in recent days on optimism that commerce conducted on the World Wide Web will boom.
Charles Schwab, the No. 1 on-line broker, fell 3 1/16 to 56 3/8. Earlier this week, Schwab's stock market value surpassed that of Merrill Lynch & Company, the largest brokerage firm. Now, Schwab's market capitalization is down to $22 billion, below Merrill's market capitalization of $24 billion.
Ubid Inc., an on-line auctioneer, fell 24 1/2, to 119; Skymall Inc. fell 13, to 27 3/4, and America Online Inc. dropped 7 1/16 , to 147 9/16 . The Internet directory company Yahoo fell 25 3/8, to 244 5/8.
Genesis Direct Inc. soared 2 13/16 , to 9 7/8, after the mail-order catalogue company said it would sell some merchandise through Excite Inc., the second-biggest Internet directory. Genesis was the second-most active stock.
Amoco fell 3 1/4, to 54 3/4, and British Petroleum's American depository receipts fell 6 3/4 , to 83 3/16 , as B.P. received United States approval to acquire Amoco. Amoco ceased to be a member of the S.& P, 500 index as of today so money managers who mimic the index must sell the stock.
Most strategists are still confident about the outlook for stock markets. Laszlo Birinyi, president of Birinyi Associates Inc., said he expects the Dow average to reach 12,000 by the end of 1999. Mr. Birinyi studies "money flow," which examines the number of shares traded every time a stock goes up or down, and is considered a gauge of the conviction behind the price move.
Mr. Birinyi said in an interview that money flow analysis indicates that International Business Machines, Ford Motor and America Online are likely to rally in 1999.
Investors reduced the amount of money they added to equity mutual funds by 28 percent this year, and almost tripled their purchases of bond funds. Still, in the week ended Monday they added $3.16 billion more to stock funds than they redeemed, according to Trimtabs.com, a research firm.
By any measure, the bull market in stocks is still under way. The Wilshire 5000 index, the broadest indicator, is up 22 percent for the year. Still, small and mid-capitalization shares continue to lag. The benchmark Russell 2000 index is off 6 percent this year, after being down as much as 31 percent.
In the bond market yesterday, Treasuries rose for the third consecutive day, reflecting investor expectations that inflation will remain low next year.
The 30-year bond rose 6/32 , to 102 18/32 . Its yield, which falls when the price rises, declined to 5.08 percent from 5.09.
Two-year notes rallied amid optimism generated by stronger-than-expected demand at the Tuesday auction. The yield on the new note fell to 4.53 percent, down 16 basis points from the auction rate.
With one day left in 1998, 30-year Treasury bonds have handed investors returns of 18.7 percent, when price gains and reinvested dividends are taken into account. That is the best result since 1995, when long-term Treasuries returned 34.7 percent.
Volume yesterday was 25 percent below the average for a Wednesday in the last month, according to Govpx Inc., a bond pricing service. About $37 billion of Treasury bills, notes and bonds traded through most of the major brokers by 3 P.M. New York time.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Dec. 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 
"Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since September. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (92%); MRK (NYSE) (92%); ALU (PAR) (84%); ALU (NYSE) (84%); ALU (BIT) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (84%); AOL (NYSE) (60%); SCHW (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (84%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (66%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (61%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (61%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (60%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (92%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); BREAN MURRAY CARRET & CO LLC (66%); ENABLE HOLDINGS INC (61%); GENESIS DIRECT INC (60%); SKYMALL INC (60%); AOL INC (60%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); ONLINE TRADING (73%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (61%); 

PERSON: LASZLO BIRINYI (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



647 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Los Angeles Times To Cut More Jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 30

 BODY:
The Los Angeles Times announced a fresh round of job cuts on Tuesday, bringing the reduction in its staff size since November to 14 percent.
The paper, which has about 6,150 employees, said it would cut 100 more jobs, mostly in its single-copy and home-delivery distribution operations, in the third phase of a three-part reorganization. The newspaper, the flagship of the Times Mirror Company, has a circulation of more than one million copies a day. It previously announced cuts of 750 jobs. 
 As a result of the latest round of cuts, The Times will contract out the delivery of the newspaper to stores and racks in several areas around California, including Palmdale, Lancaster, Santa Barbara, Palm Desert, Temecula and Lake Elsinore.
The Times also said it would consolidate its home-delivery operation, reducing by one-third the number of independent agencies that deliver the paper to subscribers in the five-county area of Los Angeles, Orange, Ventura, San Bernardino and Riverside.
The paper previously said it would create four decentralized regions with power over advertising and circulation. In addition, The Times has reorganized its electronic media and classified divisions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (58%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (73%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (58%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (96%); TIMES MIRROR CO (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (58%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (73%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (58%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAYOFFS (92%); OUTSOURCING (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



648 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns;
For $1 Million, Don't Expect A Mansion

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

DATELINE: POUND RIDGE, N.Y.

 BODY:
THE end of the year brings one item of local news that is sure to gladden the hearts of all true blue believers in the American dream.
In 1998, 301 families bought houses in Westchester that cost $1 million or more. That's a 50 percent jump from 1997 and testimony to the American economy's capacity to churn out affluent people like so many assembly-line Cadillacs. 
 But the news comes with one sour note: a million dollars doesn't get you much house these days. In Scarsdale, a million dollars buys you a five-bedroom, three-bathroom Tudor or split-level with a one-car garage on just a quarter of an acre. In Bronxville, take away a bedroom and constrict the acreage even more.
Forget Tara (before Sherman marched through) or Xanadu (before the deathbed whisper of "Rosebud!"). The new million-dollar house has no swimming pool, no tennis court, no ballroom to hold Gatsbyesque parties, and you might be squeezed so close to your neighbors that they can peer right into your bedroom without binoculars.
"No, it's not a mansion," admitted Bobby Ben-Simon, a broker at Julia B. Fee Real Estate as he showed off a $1.3 million stucco colonial in Scarsdale. "If you want a mansion you're looking $2.5 million."
In the age of overnight fortunes made on the surging stock market or on the lucrative Internet, men and women barely out of school are skipping the starter homes on Baltic and Mediterranean and advancing right to Boardwalk. The only problem is that Boardwalk isn't as lavish as it once was, and in places like Scarsdale it's starting to look a lot like Illinois Avenue.
The houses the new rich pine for are taken by the older rich. When one does becomes available, there are plenty of unabashedly young tycoons to put in bids, ratcheting up prices.
"You're talking nice size; you're not talking something dramatic," is the way Mr. Ben-Simon put it about the rooms in one Scarsdale house.
Those who persevere in landing a house that begins to look like a million dollars have to come all the way up to this rural corner of the country tucked between horsy Bedford and leafy New Canaan, Conn. Don't let the meandering stone walls and barns fool you. There is plenty of wealth here and it's drawing more wealth.
Developers are clearing overgrown farms and gone-to-seed estates and building clusters of "country manor homes," as the brochures call them. In the Rock Rim Pond development, 37 houses on lots of roughly three acres have each sold for over $1 million. At the Stone Ridge development, the financier Carl C. Icahn's Bayswater Realty has built 34 custom houses at roughly $1 million apiece.
"People have in some ways gone back to the Gilded Age, to an age of elegance," said Ebie Wood of the Houlihan-Lawrence agency as she showed off $1 million houses in Rock Rim Pond.
These developments for the rich can sometimes seem like monuments to instant gratification. Buyers want traditional colonials and Newport cottages with such touches as wainscoting, crown molding, and cherry-paneled libraries. But they also want features that traditional builders never anticipated: automatic lawn sprinklers, centralized vacuum cleaners, Jacuzzi bathtubs and granite counter tops.
"People buying a more luxurious house are not going to put a Formica counter top in their kitchen," Mrs. Wood said. "They're going to put in granite."
BUYERS get their dream houses without the discomfort of breathing plaster dust for six months. After all, with all that money, why should they breathe plaster dust? Still, they are in a subdivision, they do not buy total seclusion, the neighbors are quite visible, and the homes do not quite rise to the grandeur of classic mansions.
"It's not Valentino's Hollywood estate," Mrs. Wood acknowledged.
And life up here may not turn out to be that gracious either. Many owners will endure hour-and-a-half commutes to Wall Street so they can keep up with mortgages of $4,500 a month and higher, not to mention hefty property taxes.
Agents consider this a great time to buy. With interest rates at 7 percent, someone can put 25 percent down and get a $1 million house for a monthly mortgage payment that a few years ago would have paid off a $700,000 house. Someone should point out, however, that the house that now costs $1 million may not be much grander than the house that $700,000 bought back then.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); TENNIS (67%); SPORTS (67%); 

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



649 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Russian Financial Woes Take a Toll in Cigarettes

BYLINE: By JOHN VAROLI

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Russia, Dec. 27

 BODY:
After committing nearly $1 billion to build new factories in Russia, most Western tobacco companies have been hit with heavy losses since financial turmoil took hold this summer, but they say they will remain in the market until the economy picks up again.
Russia's debt default and devaluation of the ruble in mid-August devastated consumer purchasing power, and since then foreign tobacco companies have seen a drastic decline in sales, losing ground to cheaper cigarettes made by Russian producers. 
 The drop in sales comes at a time Russia was gaining importance as a market for Western tobacco companies. The cigarette makers, facing multibillion-dollar lawsuit settlements and aggressive anti-smoking campaigns in the United States, saw Russia as a lucrative new territory. Indeed, Russians smoke 250 billion cigarettes a year and there are few restrictions on smoking,
While Russian companies sell their cigarettes for two to three rubles a pack -- 10 to 13 cents -- the cheapest local brands made by Western manufacturers sell for six to seven rubles, while these companies' import brands sell for 20 to 30 rubles.
The average Russian earns about 1,000 rubles, or $50, a month, and a quarter of the population does not receive its pay on time.
Declining sales forced Rothman's International to close its $88 million plant in St. Petersburg in September. It is tentatively planned to reopen early next year.
A $150 million new R. J. Reynolds factory in St. Petersburg, which opened in July, shut down in September for two weeks. And early this month, Reynolds' parent company, RJR Nabisco Holdings, announced that it would eliminate about 2,900 jobs in the old Soviet republics, most of them in manufacturing, and take a $55 million pretax charge.
"There's no denying we're suffering like other companies," said Axel Gietz, media relations chief at R. J. Reynolds International. He asserted that "while Russians now have less purchasing power, they are smoking just as much as before but downgrading to cheaper cigarettes."
The Philip Morris Companies continues to build a $330 million factory outside St. Petersburg. While the company acknowledged that it had been affected by the nation's financial turmoil, it refused to provide details or make any other comment about its operations in Russia.
But British American Tobacco P.L.C., which has invested $170 million in Russia and acquired a venerable Russian brand in 1994, stands out as the exception among international tobacco companies. It says it is increasing production and gaining in its share of the market.
"There is opportunity in every crisis," said Sergei Krasnov, managing director of British American's unit in Moscow. "While production and sales slumped in August and September, since October production is back to pre-crisis levels.'
British American, which produced 25 billion cigarettes in Russia in 1997, has two factories, one in Moscow and one in Saratov, south of Moscow on the Volga River.
Mr. Krasnov attributes his company's gain to aggressive distribution and marketing strategies and to a popular product. Its Yava brand name, which it bought in 1994 from the Russian company Yava Tabak, enjoys a 100-year-old reputation in Russia for quality.
Selling for six rubles a pack -- two to three times the cheapest Russians brands -- Yava can still sell well because its home cities, Moscow and Saratov, are among the best-off economically in Russia.
United States tobacco manufacturers increasingly viewed Russia, with its chain-smoking population, as a key market. Russian cigarette sales totaled $6 billion a year before the financial crisis, and Western companies had 40 to 50 percent of the market.
The size of the Russian market has not been the only attraction for the tobacco sellers. In contrast to the United States and Canada, there are few restrictions on smoking in Russia, and health consciousness is among the lowest in Europe.
Heavy smoking is one reason the life expectancy of Russian men is only 59.
Western cigarettes, though more expensive, have long been popular with Russian smokers. Before the collapse of Communism, few items were as coveted as Western cigarettes, which were often used as hard-currency equivalents to pay taxi drivers or make bribes.
Aware of the demand for high-quality cigarettes, Western tobacco manufacturers moved in force into Russia in the early 1990's. The first cigarettes were imported, but many companies quickly began making them locally. Today, Western tobacco companies are among the leading foreign investors in Russia, with almost $1 billion committed.
Since 1992, R. J. Reynolds International has sunk the most of any Western company into manufacturing in Russia -- at least $400 million, with two major plants in St. Petersburg. The one opened in July has a capacity of 50 billion cigarettes a year, and it is R. J. Reynolds International's largest. Over all, the factory ranks as RJR Nabisco's second largest after the one in Winston-Salem, N.C.
Despite the recent problems, all foreign tobacco companies say the market's potential is too lucrative just to walk away. "While it will take about two or three years to return to pre-crisis levels, I think basically it is still a hugely important market for all manufacturers and they will remain here and continue to fight for market share," said John Dowd, head of Rothman's International in St. Petersburg. "They've already invested too much, and it is too big a market to give up."
"Russia is very important for our global strategy," Mr. Gietz, the R. J. Reynolds publicist, said. "Since Russia opened up to the West, this large country with a tradition of smoking has meant great business opportunities for us and other tobacco companies. We expect things to pick up in the second half of 1999, but we are braced for however long it will take."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The notion that commerce is international has few stronger cases in point than cigarette making and distribution. Outside St. Petersburg, Russia, an R. J. Reynolds worker packages North Star cigarettes. (Paul Miller for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (84%); BTI (NYSE MKT) (84%); BTI (JSE) (84%); BATS (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (84%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (54%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (84%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (84%); KRAFT NABISCO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TOBACCO INDUSTRY (92%); TOBACCO MFG (91%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); SMOKING (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); MARKET SHARE (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); CLOSINGS (70%); LITIGATION (55%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (55%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



650 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: F-16's Attack Iraqis After Missiles Are Fired at Allied Jets

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30

 BODY:
For the second time this week, American fighter jets today attacked an Iraqi air-defense battery as Iraq carried out its threat to fire on American and British aircraft patrolling "no flight" zones.
Four F-16's struck three parts of a surface-to-air-missile site outside the southern city of Tallil after a squadron of American and British warplanes detected the launching of six to eight surface-to-air missiles, American military officials said. 
 The fighters attacked with radar-seeking missiles and laser-guided 500-pound bombs, and the Pentagon said initial assessments suggested that a missile launcher and two vehicles had been damaged. On Monday, American jets destroyed a surface-to-air missile site in northern Iraq after being attacked, the Pentagon said.
Intelligence reports have shown that Iraq has backed up its threat to challenge the "no flight" zones by moving fighter jets and helicopters into the restricted areas. The United States and its allies created the zones in northern and southern Iraq after the Persian Gulf war to protect Iraqi ethnic groups facing repression from President Saddam Hussein.
Although the Clinton Administration has tried to play down the skirmishes as ineffectual efforts by Mr. Hussein to test American resolve, a senior military official said today that Iraq had moved eight new surface-to-air missile batteries into the southern zone and six into the northern zone.
After today's exchanges, the Government-controlled Iraq News Agency said Iraqi forces had repulsed an American-led attack that left a farmer dead and two other civilians wounded. The agency again claimed, as it did on Monday, that it was "virtually certain" that Iraqi forces had shot down one of the attacking aircraft.
"The criminals have once again violated our airspace," an Iraqi military spokesman said, Reuters reported from Baghdad.
The Clinton Administration dismissed Iraq's claims, saying all 24 American and British jets flying over southern Iraq today had returned safely to their bases. And while pilots take any surface-to-air missiles seriously, the missiles fired today never seriously threatened the warplanes, the officials said.
Administration and Pentagon officials said they believed that Mr. Hussein was hoping to weaken international support for the "no flight" zones and, perhaps, to increase morale in Iraq after four nights of American and British air and missile strikes earlier this month.
One official said Iraq had made similar provocations in the wake of American strikes in 1993 and 1996 and speculated that the skirmishes would not continue much longer. "They're for internal consumption," the official said.
Britain's Defense Secretary, George Robertson, said today that British and American pilots would continue to enforce the zones and retaliate if challenged.
"Saddam's war machine was badly damaged by the recent campaign of military action against his regime, and this latest gesture of arrogance and defiance is a sign of his weakness," he said in a statement.
Still, the Iraqi challenges have focused attention on the American and British patrols, which are conducted from bases in Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait and from aircraft carriers in the Persian Gulf. France, which joined in the creation of the zones, stopped flying its Mirage jets based in Saudi Arabia after the American and British strikes began on Dec. 16.
Also today, in a 40-minute telephone conversation with President Clinton, President Boris N. Yeltsin reiterated Russia's strong opposition to the raids and the continued clashes. It was the first time the two Presidents had spoken since the strikes began. In the aftermath of those strikes, Mr. Clinton had tried to get Mr. Yeltsin on the phone, but failed.
The National Security Council's spokesman, David C. Leavy, said Mr. Clinton explained to Mr. Yeltsin why the United States believed force was necessary. Mr. Leavy said the two also discussed Russia's economic crisis and its Parliament's new delays in ratifying the second strategic arms reduction treaty, or Start 2.
"They agreed, despite the differences over Iraq, that it is essential to continue to strengthen the relationship," Mr. Leavy said.
Today's skirmish began at about 9:30 A.M. local time when four British Tornado jets saw the first of several surface-to-air missiles being launched, officials said. The F-16's, which were nearby, also detected the missiles. It was not clear at which aircraft they were aimed. Pilots reported that they did not detect radar, which would normally guide the missiles toward their targets.
During the four nights of raids, American and British pilots repeatedly tried to hit surface-to-air missile batteries. But they destroyed only half of the 16 sites they attacked. In the two clashes since then, pilots have hit both batteries that fired missiles.
Iraq may be relying on a lucky shot to bring down an American jet and its pilot.
Several times in the last few days, Iraqi MIG fighter jets and helicopters have flown into the zones, apparently trying to lure American fighters toward surface-to-air missile sites, Pentagon officials said.

GRAPHIC: Map showing the location of the no-flight zones in Iraq: American F-16's struck an Iraqi air-defense battery outside Tallil.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAY (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GULF STATES (58%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); LASERS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (73%); HELICOPTERS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); ETHNICITY (52%); ETHNIC GROUPS (52%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



651 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Leading Indicators Point to Continuing Growth

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Index of Leading Economic Indicators jumped six-tenths of 1 percent in November, a sign that the economy's expansion is on a firm footing to continue well into next year.
The index, which was released by the Conference Board yesterday, is meant to predict the economy's direction over the coming six months. The current expansion already is the second-longest ever and, if it continues, will begin its ninth year in April. 
November's increase, which followed a gain of one-tenth of 1 percent in October, showed the economy has "bright prospects" in 1999, with little risk of recession, the New York-based research group said.
John Williams, chief economist at the Bankers Trust Company in New York, said: "Economic activity in the U.S. remains robust and shows little sign of letting up. Robust consumer spending is driving growth in the American economy, and households probably will keep up the spending next year."
Gains in stocks have contributed to recent strength in consumer confidence, and that is expected to continue. "There doesn't seem to be anything out there that's going to scare the consumer in 1999," said Daniel Laufenberg, the chief United States economist at American Express Financial Advisers in Minneapolis.
November's rise in the leading indicators index was the largest since an increase of eight-tenths of 1 percent in February 1996. Of the 10 components that make up the index, 7 made positive contributions in November and 3 made negative contributions.
Among the components that lifted the leading index in November were an increase in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which has risen about 28 percent this year, and faster growth in the nation's money supply. In addition, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose above that of the Federal funds rate, suggesting investors expected faster economic growth.
Those are "financial froth indicators," said Tim McGee, chief economist at Tokai Bank Ltd. in New York, and "are directly related to the Fed's restoring confidence in the financial system." The Federal Reserve has reduced interest rates three times in the last three months.
"So far, so good," Mr. McGee said. "But it's going to be a tricky year because of the economic problems around the world."
Other indicators that pushed November's leading index higher were a gain in orders for consumer goods; slower vendor deliveries, which were a reflection of stronger demand; higher orders for nonmilitary capital goods, and a gain in the University of Michigan's consumer expectations index.
The pieces of the index that suggested weaker growth in the months to come were a decrease in the average number of weekly manufacturing hours, to 41.6 in November from 41.7 in October; higher weekly jobless claims, and slower growth in building permits.
The Conference Board also reported that its index of coincident indicators, a gauge of current economic activity that includes industrial production, rose two-tenths of 1 percent in November. The index of lagging indicators, which incorporates the unemployment rate, fell one-tenth of 1 percent.
Even with the rosy economic outlook, the prospects for corporate profits are clouded, company executives say. Competition is keeping companies from raising prices to offset higher labor costs, according to a survey released today by the American Business Conference.
Only 3 percent of the chief executives responding to the group's survey said they expected profit margins in the first quarter of 1999 to exceed the levels of the 1998 fourth quarter. That was down from the prior survey, which showed 14 percent expected margins in the fourth quarter to exceed those of the third quarter.
The group surveys mid-size companies.
"The squeeze is on," said Barry Rogstad, president of the group. "We're in a low-growth, low-inflation period with softening product prices and rising payroll costs." He said he expected more companies to restructure their businesses next year, leading to additional layoffs.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Leading Indicators" shows an index of 11 indicators designed to predict overall economic activity from June 1997 through Nov. 1998. (Source: Commerce Departent)
 
Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis" lists components of the index of leading economic indicators and the index's change from October to November. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (63%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (56%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (55%); NEW YORK (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); BOND MARKETS (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); INTEREST RATES (62%); 

PERSON: TIM MCGEE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



652 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Barry Offers Parting Words As Mayor With 'No Regrets'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30

 BODY:
The stain on his record will endure, reflecting a six-month prison term for drug use that disrupted a long and colorful career of public service.
But therein lies the paradox of Marion S. Barry Jr. as he leaves office on Saturday, ending 16 years as Mayor of the District of Columbia and its most electrifying political personality for nearly three decades. 
 At noon that day, Anthony A. Williams, the city's former chief financial officer and a relative newcomer to local politics, is scheduled to be sworn in as Mayor. Mr. Williams, 47, a Democrat from California who moved to Washington five years ago, easily won election in November.
Yet Mr. Williams's triumph was achieved only after Mr. Barry, 62, chose not to run for a fifth term, an apparent acknowledgment that he knew it was time to move on.
"I'm proud of all we accomplished," Mr. Barry said today at his final weekly news conference, striking his familiar immodest pose. "I have no regrets. I'm not sad. I'm not anxious. I'm not down. In fact, I'm up. I feel good physically, mentally, spiritually, and some say I look pretty good, too."
Mr. Barry's personality and politics shaped much of the District through its economic rise and fall over his first three terms, 1978 to 1990. But after emerging from prison to make a remarkable return to office in 1994, it soon became apparent his mighty touch was gone.
He could not escape the financial havoc that evolved during his third term and the next four years under his successor, Sharon Pratt Kelly. Huge deficits and dysfunctional agencies led the new Republican-controlled Congress in 1995 to create a control board, which snatched all meaningful authority over the city and left Mr. Barry as little more than a bit player.
Only this year has the city's economy shown improvement, prompting the control board to announce that the powers of running the city would be restored to the new Mayor.
But Mr. Barry leaves a legacy more complex than that of a political leader who rose, fell and rose again after expunging the personal demons of drugs, alcohol and adultery.
"How he will be judged depends upon who is judging," said Ron Walters, a professor of political science at the University of Maryland.
To many, especially black residents, he is still a hero. Mark Plotkin, a commentator on WAMU, a local public radio station, said, "To some people in the city, he had achieved almost mythical proportions."
As a campaigner in the civil rights movement and one of the first black mayors to lead a large majority-black city, Mr. Barry made it a priority to hire as many blacks onto the city payroll as possible. He also encouraged the creation of minority-owned business, worked for downtown redevelopment and made sure his budget always had money for a summer jobs program for teenagers.
The combination enabled thousands of once-poor District residents to achieve dignity and middle-class status and helped build a solid black middle class.
Mr. Barry has also won respect from blacks as well as many whites for what he described as his spiritual and emotional recovery following his prison sentence.
Many District residents insisted that they would have voted for him had he sought re-election this year.
"I think history will be kind to him for what he did for the little man and for children," said Sam Jordan, a longtime friend and political ally who heads the city's Office of Emergency Preparedness. "He made some mistakes, but he went back to his church and his Lord, asking for forgiveness."
But Mr. Barry remains intensely disliked by other residents, who viewed his substance abuse and adultery as symbols of arrogance, betrayal and malfeasance that left the city in perilous financial condition.
"I think he was a disaster," said Marie Drissel, a community activist who helped recruit Mr. Williams to run this year. "The idea that our Mayor could be caught smoking crack cocaine is something a lot of other people aren't going to get over."
Much of that sentiment was shared by Republican members of Congress.
Mr. Barry always recognized the animus of his Republican opponents, and said today, "When the Republicans took over, I knew they were philosophically opposed to returning power back to the people of Washington."
But he pressed on, poking at Congress and offering his own life as an example of how to endure tough times and triumph.
"If I had to summarize all of what I've done, and I've done a tremendous amount," he said today, when asked how he would like to be remembered, "I have given help and hope to a lot of people who didn't have any help and very little hope. I care deeply about the city. I do."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marion S. Barry Jr. gave his last news conference today as Mayor of the District of Columbia. "I'm proud of all we accomplished," he said. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: WMI HOLDINGS CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); PUBLIC RADIO (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: MARION S BARRY JR (97%); ANTHONY A WILLIAMS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



653 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Government in the Netherlands Thwarts Modern Pilgrim's Progress

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD

DATELINE: BOSTON, Dec. 30

 BODY:
Almost four centuries after the Netherlands gave the Pilgrims refuge from persecution in England, a leading American scholar on the Pilgrims seems to have been caught in the Dutch Government's crackdown on immigrants and has been ordered to leave the Netherlands by Jan. 15.
The scholar, Dr. Jeremy Bangs, who founded a Pilgrim museum last year in Leiden, said the Dutch Ministry of Justice had rejected his application for permanent residency because, it said, he did not qualify for a work permit and it did not believe he could support himself. 
 "It is hard to get more ironic than to expel someone who is working on the Pilgrims, who were the most famous example of Dutch welcome and protection," Dr. Bangs said.
At the time the Pilgrims fled to the Netherlands in 1608, he said, the government boasted that it "refuses no honest people free entry."
Dr. Bangs, 52, receives financial support from the New England Historic Genealogical Society in Boston to conduct research on the history of the Pilgrims while they were in the Netherlands before leaving for America in 1620 and founding Plymouth.
He recently discovered the first contemporary painting showing the Pilgrims embarking at Delftshaven on their way to America.
Jane Fiske, the editor of the Register of the Historic Genealogical Society, which will publish an article about Dr. Bangs's discovery in January, said of the deportation, "He has done so well in his research and opening the museum that this whole thing seems ludicrous."
The Ministry of Justice has been trying to deal with a record 50,000 illegal immigrants to the Netherlands, already one of the most densely populated countries, from Afghanistan, Iraq, Somalia and the former Yugoslavia this year. The immigrants contend that they are escaping political persecution, but the Dutch Government has been under pressure to treat them as economic refugees and expel them.
A spokesman for the ministry, Wijnand Stevens, said Dr. Bangs could appeal the expulsion.
Mr. Stevens also said the Government's crackdown and Dr. Bangs's case were not related.
But the leading Dutch newspaper, NRC Handelsblad, poked fun at the ministry on Tuesday, suggesting that Dr. Bangs was a victim of bureaucratic stupidity.
The problem for Dr. Bangs is that he may not apply for a work permit because he is both an employee of the Leiden American Pilgrim Museum and the director of it, the paper said. Under Dutch law, only an employer may apply for a permit for an employee, so, the paper said, Dr. Bangs "falls outside bureaucratic definition."
"Bangs does not cost the Dutch state a single penny," the paper said. "And his museum tells of a meaningful part of our history. Hillary Rodham Clinton who will visit the Netherlands in February has put the museum on her agenda. Perhaps she will arrive at a closed door because Bangs had to leave the Netherlands on Jan. 15. Can someone explain this to Hillary?"
At least one member of the Dutch Parliament, J. Th. Hoekema, has officially questioned the ministry's decision.
Friends and acquaintances of Dr. Bangs say another part of his difficulty may be that he lives simply, on the small income from the Historic Genealogical Society and that the ministry may not believe he has enough means of support.
Neither Dr. Bangs nor the society would say what he is paid, but Ms. Fiske said: "He lives very frugally, in a small apartment in an old building, and it is hard to see how he gets by. I think he is putting much of the money we give him into the museum."
Before moving to Leiden two years ago, Dr. Bangs lived in Scituate, Mass., and was curator of Plimouth Plantation. He holds a doctorate in history from the University of Leiden and has written 12 books and more than 40 scholarly articles.
In his research, he has demonstrated that some of the people Americans today celebrate as the Pilgrims were not English. Several were French-speaking Walloons, or Protestants, and one even came from Danzig, in Poland. They had all come to Leiden because it was a center of religious tolerance at a time of warfare between Catholics and Protestants.
Dr. Bangs said that if he was required to leave, the museum would probably close. If he does have to abandon Leiden, he may recall a passage written about the Pilgrims' departure in 1620 by William Bradford, later Governor of Plymouth:
"So they left that goodly and pleasant city which had been their resting place near twelve years; but they knew they were pilgrims, and looked not much on those things, but lift up their eyes to the heavens, their dearest country, and quieted their spirits."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (91%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND HISTORIC GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND HISTORIC GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NETHERLANDS (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (91%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); REFUGEES (78%); HISTORY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEPORTATION (77%); CITIZENSHIP (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); GENEALOGY (72%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



654 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 
Iraq Takes Another Shot At a 'No Flight' Patrol
American fighter jets attacked Iraqi air-defense batteries for a second time this week as Iraq carried out its threats to fire on American and British aircraft patrolling "no flight" zones over northern and southern Iraq. Four F-16's struck three Iraqi anti-aircraft sites near the southern city of Tallil after a squadron of American and British warplanes detected the launching of several surface-to-air missiles. A3
 
China Meets Economic Goal
China announced that it had achieved economic growth of 7.8 percent for 1998, essentially meeting the 8 percent goal set by political leaders at the beginning of the year. But many economists were skeptical, asserting that once top leaders set a goal, local officials around the country make sure it is met on paper. A7 

Conversion Dispute Reignites
A district judge in Jerusalem reawakened the divisive issue of who is a Jew by ordering the Israeli Government to recognize conversions performed by non-Orthodox rabbis. Orthodox Jewish politicians immediately denounced the ruling and promised to circumvent it by bringing a bill to Parliament next week that confers the sole right to perform conversions on the Orthodox rabbinate. A6
 
Mexican Budget Agreement
Mexican lawmakers, after weeks of impasse, reached a compromise on their country's most austere budget in modern times. The full Congress was expected to adopt the package, which includes deep spending cuts and increases in tariffs and fuel prices. Debate on the estimated $103 billion budget for 1999 revolved around a new telephone tax proposed last month by President Ernesto Zedillo. A9
 
Argentina Arrests Ex-Officers
Jorge Eduardo Acosta, left, and Ruben Franco, two former Argentinian naval officers, were arrested this week and accused of systematically kidnapping children of dissidents in the "dirty war" against leftists in the 1970's and 80's. A total of nine officers have been arrested, detained or summoned to court this year in connection with the baby-snatching scheme. A5
 
Yemen Criticized Over Rescue
All 16 of the Westerners kidnapped by Islamic extremists in Yemen on Monday were alive when security forces mounted an attack to free them, survivors said, contradicting accounts given by Yemeni officials. The rescue effort, which left three Britons and an Australian dead, was described by a Western diplomat as "a total shambles." A6
 
Guatemalans Asked to Forgive
President Alvaro Arzu has appealed for national reconciliation and asked Guatemalans to forgive the state for its role in the deaths and deprivation that they suffered during 36 years of civil war. A4
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A10-14
 
China Stole Technology, A United House Panel Says
A select House committee, in a classified report unusual for its bipartisanship, has found that during the last 20 years China obtained, sometimes through theft, some of the most sensitive of American military technology, including nuclear weapons design, Government officials and witnesses before the panel said. A1
 
Plan for Impeachment Trial
Top Senate Republican and Democratic leaders weighing President Clinton's impeachment are considering a plan to let senators hear evidence from both sides and then cast a preliminary vote on whether to move forward with a full trial, a Democrat close to the negotiations said. A1
 
No Wider Conspiracy Found
A grand jury investigating what prosecutors had dismissed as crackpot theories about the bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City returned a sealed indictment, but said it had found no evidence of additional conspirators or a Government cover-up. A10
 
States Are Healthy, for Now
Cautious spending and a robust national economy have left virtually all the states in solid financial condition for the fifth year in a row, a fiscal survey found. But the authors warned that states face the loss of billions of dollars in tax revenue to the sale of goods through mail-order purchases and the Internet. A12
 
An Era Winds Down
Marion S. Barry Jr., holding his last weekly news conference as Mayor of the District of Columbia, said he had no regrets despite the personal and political turmoil that accompanied his 16 years in office. A13
 
Inquiry Into Sweepstakes
Two Senators said they would investigate the marketing practices of the largest sweepstakes companies and other mass mailers. A13
 
Some Deportations Suspended
Illegal immigrants who come from the nations hardest hit by Hurricane Mitch will not be deported for at least 18 months, United States officials said. A12
 
Bridging a Generation Gap
Nintendo has hired 150 technology-savvy high-school students on holiday break in the Seattle area to help soothe and counsel parents unable to get new video games to work. A1
 
Pilgrim Scholar Told to Go
A leading American scholar on the Pilgrims, who lived in the Dutch town of Leiden before setting out for America in 1620, has been caught in the Dutch Government's crackdown on immigrants and has been ordered to leave the Netherlands. A10
 
Octuplets' Mother Heads Home
The 27-year-old woman who gave birth to octuplets in Houston was released from the hospital. Her seven surviving babies remained in critical but stable condition. A10
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
City Holds Dress Rehearsal For the Millennium Party
A half-million revelers are expected in Times Square tonight, despite temperatures forecast to be in the 20's. The brand-new music and sound effects, the 16-foot-tall puppet of Father Time, the three video screens, the 27 extra spotlights and the extra half ton of confetti are all part of a dry run in preparation for the New Year's Eve 1999 extravaganza. A1
 
Times Square will be patrolled by 5,000 officers tonight, and much of midtown Manhattan will be closed to traffic beginning at 6 P.M. B4
 
Sloan-Kettering Chief Leaving
Dr. Paul A. Marks, 72, the president and chief executive of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and one the city's most important medical figures, said he would retire soon after the start of the new year. B1
 
Questions Sour Giuliani
Mayor Giuliani sparred with reporters over his leadership style during a year-end interview that began with his ticking off a list of accomplishment over cookies and snacks. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B5
 
CIRCUITS G1-10
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Players' Union Responds
The executive director of the N.B.A. players' union said the players would soon make a last offer, despite a league ultimatum that the players either accept the owners' last offer or see the season canceled. D1
 
OBITUARIES A15
 
ARTS E1-18
 
Cacophony Disrupts Symphony
Kurt Masur, conducting the New York Philharmonic at Avery Fisher Hall on Tuesday, did what many a conductor has wished to do: he stopped a performance and briefly left the stage because of audience coughing. He was applauded. E3
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-18
 
AT&T Cable Deal Proceeds
The Justice Department approved the proposed $31.8 billion acquisition of the cable giant Tele-Communications by AT&T. But the deal cannot be closed without the consent of the F.C.C., whose staff is said to be more than a month away from finishing its review. C1
 
Oil Merger Approved
The F.T.C. approved the proposed purchase of Amoco by British Petroleum after extracting a handful of minor antitrust concessions from the new company, which will become the world's third-largest petroleum company. The deal is expected to be closed today. C2
 
New Claims of Medical Fraud
The Justice Department has joined a lawsuit filed by a whistle-blower against Columbia/HCA Healthcare, bringing new allegations that the company defrauded Federal health programs through a scheme involving bogus expense claims. C1
 
Stocks Take a Step Back
The stock market ended lower for the first time in nine trading days, weakened by investors who sold to secure some profits from a 1998 rally that accelerated at year's end. The Dow fell 46.34 points, to 9,274.64; the S.& P. 500 slipped 9.88 points, to 1,231.93, and the Nasdaq dropped 14.82 points, to 2,166.95. C6
 
Business Digest C1
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-10
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: A steady hand, so far; calling a truce on divorce warfare; the immigrant lockup.
Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E12
 
Public Lives B2
 
Crossword E14
 
Weather B7

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (53%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); YEMEN (93%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); YEMEN (93%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (88%); ARRESTS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (75%); POLITICS (74%); NAVIES (73%); RELIGION (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); JUDGES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); CIVIL WAR (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



655 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: The LeFrak Legacy;
In New Complex, a Builder Seeks Status as a Visionary

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY

 BODY:
Sam LeFrak was pounding his palms on a conference table so hard the telephone was bouncing. He was yelling. He was cursing. Someone tried to get a word in, but it was no use.
Mr. LeFrak was happy. And he was on a roll. 
 "This," he said, with a bang on the table, "will be one of the stops on the Gray Line bus tour." (Bang.) "This will be shown by every boat." (Bang.) "There's Newport! There's Newport!" (Bang.) "And when you see what we started with, you'll know why it will be the proudest moment of my life."
He brought his ruddy face up close to a visitor's: "Now, I'm not trying to influence you."
Newport is the $10 billion apartment and office complex that Mr. LeFrak, the billionaire developer, and his son, Richard, are building on what not long ago was a rotting stretch of Jersey City waterfront. Never mind that boat captains will probably miss it while pointing out Manhattan across the way or the big green statue nearby.
It is what Mr. LeFrak, who has built more apartments in the New York area than any other private developer, calls his "baby," his "Mona Lisa" and, more tellingly in his 80th year, his "swan song."
And when the giant gated city is finished sometime in the early part of the next millennium, it promises to be perhaps the only one of Mr. LeFrak's vast creations that will measure up to his gargantuan ego.
With 12,000 apartments, it will dwarf Lefrak City, the largest apartment complex in Queens and once the largest privately developed complex in the country, which Mr. LeFrak built in the 1960's. (He only later capitalized the F in his family's name, saying he wanted to stress a French heritage.)
Newport will have about two Empire State Buildings' worth of office space. The property, all of which the LeFraks own, is about the size of Rikers Island, and includes the land above and below the New Jersey end of the Holland Tunnel.
Mr. LeFrak said recently, and it was hard to tell if he was joking, "We are going to let them keep the tunnel there."
For a generation raised on the flashy self-aggrandizement of Donald J. Trump, it may be hard to imagine that he had a kind of spiritual forefather in Samuel J. LeFrak. In the late 1950's, when Mr. LeFrak took over the successful construction company that his father, Harry, founded, he set out to tranform the name itself into a synonym for middle-class urbanity outside Manhattan.
He emblazoned his name in huge orange letters on Lefrak City, alongside the Horace Harding Expressway, next to signs that needled weary drivers: "If We Lived Here Daddy, You'd Be Home By Now." He courted governors and mayors, but most of all reporters, for whom he played a role unlike any real estate developer before him: outrageous, always available, willing to make almost any claim and answer any question, if not always accurately.
He frequently claimed that one out of every 16 New Yorkers lived in a Lefrak apartment (a plausible calculation, though he never explained his math). When articles about his finances upset him, he called up reporters offering to open up his books. When he was singled out by the Federal Government in the early 1970's in a housing discrimination case, he angrily pronounced it the worst disaster since Pearl Harbor, and, after a dispute with the city over Federal housing funds, he briefly but loudly threatened to stop building in New York and move his headquarters to Los Angeles.
During the last two decades, his prominence has dimmed because he eventually did all but stop building in New York City. This was largely because of disagreements over Battery Park City -- he wanted it to be more middle-class than luxury -- that led him to walk away as a primary developer of that complex in the early 1980's.
He constantly complains that city officials have long made it too difficult and expensive to build in New York City. But while other real estate families have stumbled in economic downturns, Mr. LeFrak and his son have continued, slowly, methodically, and largely with their own money, to build and fill more apartments and offices.
"Inflation, deflation, stagflation, even rent control," Mr. LeFrak likes to say, his voice jumping an octave, "this family has survived it."
If anything, his hyperbole has grown with age. He has called Newport "probably the largest job that has ever been built since the Pyramids." He also increasingly seeks the kind of recognition -- as a statesman, an educator, a patron and an architectural visionary -- that has eluded him as a creator of mostly plain-vanilla complexes.
But it remains to be seen whether history will judge him as more than an extraordinarily resourceful, prolific builder. "I really don't think he has influenced the course of architecture any more than he has influenced foreign policy or education or art or any of the other issues to which he would like to have you believe he has made a major contribution," said Paul Goldberger, the architecture critic for The New Yorker.
"He produced a lot of housing economically, which is an admirable accomplishment," he added. "I like to think that one could have done it better than he did, but the city did need a lot of housing and he filled that need."
It is an assessment that at one time Mr. LeFrak proudly made himself. "They were basic," he wrote in a 1974 article that appeared in The New York Times about the standard six-story Lefrak apartment buildings that dot nearly every Brooklyn and Queens neighborhood. "The windows opened and closed. You opened them in the summer and closed them in the winter. Middle-class New Yorkers could afford to live in them and raise families."
But now Mr. LeFrak would like to be remembered for more than concrete and profit figures. He sometimes compares Newport to Frank Gehry's Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain. At a lavish birthday party at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in Manhattan in November, he draped himself with a red sash and Finnish knighthood medal, one of several he has sought and received over the last two decades.
"Look at this guy -- he's got his fruit salad on," said the actor Eli Wallach, a longtime friend and the narrator of a documentary that the Lefrak Organization commissioned for the birthday celebration. "There's just no one like Sam." His oversized business cards say Sir Samuel J. LeFrak and copies of his speeches that his company distributes announce him as Dr. LeFrak. (He has received several honorary doctorates.)
At 80, with a fortune estimated at more than $1.5 billion and an estimated 90,000 apartments in the city (the LeFraks will not disclose their exact holdings), Mr. LeFrak remains an almost unbelievable mix of sophistication and street grit. He is a major benefactor and trustee of the Guggenheim Museum in Manhattan and his vast art collection ranges from Van Goghs to Warhols. Yet walking through the polished marble lobby of a Newport apartment tower recently, he asked a reporter if it wasn't "beauty-full."
"This is what we give the people," he said. "I get all the X Generation coming out here now."
But many real estate experts say his business instincts remain as sharp as ever. "Newport is not going to be a creative masterpiece," Mr. Goldberger said. "But the real creative thinking was just in going over there."
Mr. LeFrak, who had looked longingly on the crumbling railheads and warehouses along the Jersey waterfront for years from the deck of his 94-foot yacht, told his son in the early 1980's that building there would fulfill a dream of his, to create a kind of rival skyline across from lower Manhattan.
"It would have been most people's nightmare," his son, Richard LeFrak, said. "The spot where all this is now was the worst kind of urban decay you could possibly look at." But the land sat atop a PATH train line, was surrounded by highways, had sweeping views of lower Manhattan and stretched along more than a mile of the Hudson.
Twelve years after construction began -- with $1 billion invested, including their own money to install sewers and roads -- Newport is now more than a quarter completed, with 11 million square feet of offices and apartments. A Tokyo computer services company has taken nearly half a million square feet of office space, which the LeFraks say is the largest lease ever undertaken in the United States by a Japanese corporation. The first six high-rise rental buildings, with 2,300 apartments and rents ranging from $750 for a studio to $2,800 for a large two-bedroom, have been completely rented.
Mr. LeFrak, wearing his trademark Panama hat and bright red tie, can be seen most days cruising around the complex in his Mercedes, like a brand-new potentate.
One day recently, he led a reporter out to a grassy spit of land that seemed within touching distance of lower Manhattan. He turned and surveyed the mini-city rising behind him. Was it a fitting retort, he was asked, to those who he says pushed him away from New York City to New Jersey?
He smiled wickedly. "You know what this is an international symbol for?" he said, making an impolite gesture with a gloved finger.
"Well, that's what Newport is going to be for those guys when they look across the river."

GRAPHIC: Photos: NEWPORT -- Mr. LeFrak calls the $10 billion apartment and office complex on the Hudson River his "baby," his "Mona Lisa" and, tellingly in his 80th year, his "swan song." Sam LeFrak, the developer of Lefrak City in Queens, says his latest project, in New Jersey, will rival Manhattan's skyline. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B1);
Twelve years after construction began, the $10 billion Newport project is now more than a quarter completed, with 11 million square feet of offices and apartments. The property is about the size of Rikers Island. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GRAY LINE TOURS (57%); GRAY LINE HAWAII (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. OFFICE PROPERTY (88%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



656 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stock Market Declines After 8 Days of Gains
The stock market ended lower for the first time in nine sessions, weakened by investors who sold to secure some profits from a 1998 rally that accelerated at the end of the year. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 46.34 points, to 9,274.64, after having gained 530 points since Dec. 16. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 9.88 points, to 1,231.93, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 14.82 points, to 2,166.95. In the bond market, Treasuries rose for the third consecutive day as the yield on the benchmark 30-year bond fell to 5.08 percent. Page C6.

B. P. Deal for Amoco Approved
The Federal Trade Commission approved the proposed purchase of Amoco by British Petroleum after extracting a handful of minor antitrust concessions from the new company, which will become the world's third-largest petroleum company. The companies will have to sell 134 gas stations and 9 petroleum terminals. Shares of Amoco plunged $3.25, to $54.75, as managers of index funds sold shares of the company, which will be replaced in the S.& P. 500. The American depository receipts of British Petroleum fell $6.75, to $83.1875. C2.
 
Intuit Chief Sees Microsoft Threat
In written testimony in Microsoft's antitrust trial, William Harris, the president of Intuit, which makes Quicken personal finance software, said Microsoft could use its market power to gain control over "major areas" of Internet commerce and asked the courts to give Microsoft's rivals equal access to its Windows operating system and desktop screen. C2.
 
Cigarette Makers Stick With Russia
After committing nearly $1 billion to build new factories in Russia, most Western tobacco companies have suffered heavy losses since financial turmoil took hold this summer, but they say they will remain in the market until the economy picks up again. C3.
 
China Says Growth Target Is Met
Despite the severity of Asia's economic problems, China said it achieved growth of 7.8 percent for 1998, essentially meeting the 8 percent goal set by political leaders at the beginning of the year. The growth rate was only 1 percentage point below the 1997 figure of 8.8 percent and contrasted sharply with the recessionary data reported by neighbors like Japan, Malaysia and Indonesia. A5.
 
Review of Options Exchange Deals
The Justice Department has requested information from the nation's four major options exchanges about how proposed mergers between them will affect options trading. Officials from the Chicago Board Options Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, the Pacific Exchange and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange said they had received requests for information in recent days. C6.
 
Brazil Takes Steps to Cut Deficit
Brazil announced a series of special measures to raise 6.7 billion reais, or $5.6 billion, to help cut a budget deficit and make up for shortages expected in tax revenue next year. The measures come in response to lawmakers' delays in passing proposals aimed at cutting the $64 billion budget deficit almost in half next year. "We must show, and Brazilian society must show, our ability to do what needs to be done," said the Finance Minister, Pedro Malan. C3.
 
Key Measure of Economy Up 0.6%
The Index of Leading Economic Indicators jumped six-tenths of 1 percent in November, a sign that the economy's expansion is on a firm footing to continue into next year. The current expansion already is the second longest ever and would begin its ninth year in April. C2.
 
Export Rules Relaxed on Encryption
The Commerce Department said it had issued rules relaxing export limits on data-scrambling technologies, considered vital for secure electronic commerce and Internet communications. The rules end the need for licenses to sell encryption products to companies in several key sectors and eliminate restrictions on selling data-scrambling products to subsidiaries of United States corporations. C3.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,274.64 down 46.34
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.08% down 0.01
The Dollar -- 114.85 yen down 0.68

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); CBOE (NASDAQ) (61%); BP (NYSE) (56%); BP (LSE) (56%); INTU (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (61%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (61%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); CBOE HOLDINGS INC (61%); BP PLC (56%); INTUIT INC (55%); NYSE MKT LLC (50%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (50%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (95%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE SOFTWARE (90%); BONDS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (79%); RECESSION (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); APPROVALS (74%); MERGERS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); INDEX FUNDS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (68%); GAS STATIONS (68%); TOBACCO MFG (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



657 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: States in Fine Fiscal Health, But a Revenue Threat Looms

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30

 BODY:
Cautious spending and a robust national economy have left virtually all the states in solid financial condition for the fifth year in a row, according to a fiscal survey released today.
The healthy economy has allowed the states to give taxpayers the largest projected aggregate tax cuts in five years, $7 billion for the 1999 fiscal year. Twenty-nine states have reduced one tax or another. 
 But the authors of the report, the National Governors' Association and the National Association of State Budget Officers, warned that important challenges loom. In addition to citing an uncertain national economy, they amplified the warning of many state officials, saying that states are confronting the projected loss of billions of dollars in tax revenues to the sale of goods via the mail and the Internet.
"The revenue loss is not huge now," Raymond C. Scheppach, executive director of the governors' group, said today at a news conference where he discussed the latest Fiscal Survey of the States, a report that is published twice a year. "But it is growing very, very rapidly. If we don't correct the problem, it will virtually lead to the collapse of state sales taxes."
Sales taxes account for as much as 40 percent of all state revenues, with the rest coming largely from personal income and corporate taxes. Stymied by courts and Congress in their effort to collect taxes from Internet sales, states have been pushing back, saying that their revenue base is threatened. In comments today, the officials who produced the budget report tried to project how significant that threat might be.
Tax revenues from consumer goods and services are eroding as the convenience of shopping by catalogue and, more than ever, computer gains in popularity, Mr. Scheppach said.
Measuring how popular is difficult. A recent survey of consumers by a subsidiary of the Interpublic Group of Companies, an advertising group, estimated that on-line sales this year could reach $5 billion, more than twice merchants' expectations, although still well under 1 percent of total American retail sales.
But Bob Chatham, an electronic commerce analyst with Forester Research in Boston, said Internet sales projections for 2000 could exceed four times the amount of 1998 Internet sales.
But going far beyond estimates by anyone else in business or government, Mr. Scheppach predicted that by 2002, sales over the Internet could reach $300 billion. If that proves true, it could translate into $20 billion in lost revenues for the states and local governments.
But with Internet sales a relatively new phenomenon, no one really knows how high sales might reach or how deeply they could affect states as they try balancing their budgets.
"Is this a huge problem in 1998? I don't think so," said William F. Fox, a professor of economics at the University of Tennessee and past president of the National Tax Association, a nonpartisan policy group. "But if the future estimates I've heard are anywhere in the ball park, then yes, there could be a significant and growing problem that states need to worry about."
The states, of course, are eager to recoup the losses, but their aspirations have been stymied in some instances by Congress and the Supreme Court as well as the difficulties states have in collecting taxes they would otherwise be entitled to.
In October, Congress passed the Internet Tax Freedom Act, which in an effort to nurture fledgling Internet-related businesses declared a three-year moratorium on taxes from on-line sales. The legislation provided for the creation of a 19-member commission to study electronic commerce and recommend solutions to any tax inequities. But squabbles over the makeup of the commission have delayed the start of its work, discouraging Government and business officials who were hoping for answers sooner rather than later.
"You always have hope," said Walter Hellerstein, a law professor at the University of Georgia who specializes in state tax laws. "Realistic expectations are much different."
The Supreme Court has visited only the issue of catalogue sales, ruling in 1967 and 1991 cases that sellers are not required to collect a tax on goods unless the company has a physical presence in the state of the purchaser.
In theory, much of the revenues are there, just waiting for the states to collect them. In the 45 states that have sales taxes -- the exceptions are Alaska, Delaware, Montana, New Hampshire and Oregon -- purchasers are supposed to be liable for the taxes, no matter how merchandise is bought. But few citizens voluntarily provide information that would increase their tax liability, and states cannot require sellers to collect taxes on catalogue sales because the Constitution bars states from interfering with interstate commerce.
The overall health of the states, as reflected by the survey report, derives in part by a conclusion that governors are making prudent economic and political decisions, by holding down the increase in spending and cutting taxes.
The report estimates that states increased spending by 5.7 percent for fiscal 1998 and 6.3 percent for fiscal 1999, a rate that is slightly below the 6.5 percent national average of the last two decades. That combines the overall tax cut of $7.02 billion, much of it in personal income tax. Overall, it represents about 1.6 percent of the states' revenues.
Over the last five years, states have cut taxes by $22 billion.
The states that enacted the largest cuts were California ($1.38 billion), New York ($1.10 billion), Massachusetts ($789 million) and Ohio ($780 million). All had Republican governors at the time, but Mr. Scheppach said that the economic health was evident in states with Democratic governors, as well.
Six states raised taxes for 1999, led by New Jersey, which budgeted for $200 million in revenues from new cigarette taxes. The others with increases are Florida, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana and South Carolina.
The report said that almost all the states reported a surplus for the 1998 fiscal year, but in addition to tax cuts, they used the extra money for investment projects, like schools and roads. Almost half the states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, used some of the surplus to bolster the state rainy day account.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "DOLLARS AND CENTS: Cash on Hand"
Preliminary state balances for fiscal 1998, including year-end balances and "rainy day" funds, and the total balance as a percentage of each state's 1998 spending.
 
Alabama -- 1%
Alaska -- 142
Arizona -- 16
Arkansas -- 2
California -- 4
Colorado -- 17
Connecticut -- 7
Delaware -- 28
Florida -- 9
Georgia -- 9
Hawaii -- 5
Idaho -- 5
Illinois -- 6
Indiana -- 23
Iowa -- 20
Kansas -- 20
Kentucky -- 6
Louisiana -- 0
Maine -- 10
Maryland -- 13
Massachusetts -- 7
Michigan -- 13
Minnesota -- 22
Mississippi -- 13
Missouri -- 6
Montana -- 8
Nebraska -- 29
Nevada -- 16
New Hampshire -- 7
New Jersey -- 7
New Mexico -- 8
New York -- 2
North Carolina -- 6
North Dakota -- 13
Ohio -- 6
Oklahoma -- 11
Oregon -- 15
Pennsylvania -- 5
Rhode Island -- 10
South Carolina -- 11
South Dakota -- 4
Tennessee -- 7
Texas -- 12
Utah -- 4
Vermont -- 4
Virginia -- 7
Washington -- 9
West Virginia -- 8
Wisconsin -- 6
Wyoming -- 13
 
The graph also shows the total balance in billions of dollars.
 
(Source: National Governors' Association; National Association of State Budget Officers)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (81%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (83%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (83%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAXES & TAXATION (93%); SALES TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); INTERNET SALES TAX (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); MARKETING SURVEYS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); RETAILERS (74%); WRITERS (71%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



658 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE PANEL SAYS CHINESE OBTAINED U.S. ARMS SECRETS

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH and ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30

 BODY:
A select House committee, in a classified report unusual for its bipartisanship, has found that over the last 20 years China obtained, sometimes through theft, some of the most sensitive of American military technology, including nuclear weapons design, Government officials and witnesses before the panel say.
The committee's final report, unanimously approved by its five Republican and four Democratic members today, found that during Republican and Democratic Administrations alike, China acquired a range of technical secrets far beyond the satellite- and missile-related technology whose transfer by American satellite companies during the Clinton Administration prompted the start of the panel's inquiry in May. 
 In a carefully worded statement after the report had been approved, the committee's chairman, Representative Christopher Cox, Republican of California, said that China's acquisition of American technology had harmed national security and that its "acquisition efforts over the past two decades" had been a "serious, sustained" activity.
The panel's 700-page report is secret because so much of its six-month inquiry dealt with classified information, and it released no details from that report today. It promised to begin a process, in consultation with the Administration, to declassify as many of the findings as possible.
But witnesses and intelligence officials who worked with the committee said it agreed with assessments by the Pentagon and the State Department that information shared with Chinese scientists by two American companies, the Hughes Electronics Corporation and Loral Space and Communications, had improved Beijing's ability to launch satellites and ballistic missiles.
In addition, witnesses said, the panel's conclusion that China had stolen military-related American technology may prove to be the most explosive part of the report. The panel uncovered, for example, a pattern by the Chinese of stealing nuclear-weapons design technology from American nuclear laboratories, said one person who has read part of the report. It was unclear when or over what period of time any of these nuclear-related thefts might have occurred.
The committee, officials said, faulted policies of the Reagan, Bush and Clinton Administrations but did not say whether the problems were worse in one Administration than in another. It made 38 recommendations for legislation or executive orders to address those policy failures. The recommendations covered policy categories like security at weapons laboratories, the handling of sensitive intelligence data and export controls.
While the committee did not directly examine covert Chinese contributions to the 1996 American election campaigns, officials said, it did investigate the activities of a Chinese aerospace executive, Liu Chao-ying. Ms. Liu was a conduit for Chinese Government payments to Democratic fund-raisers and, with her father, Liu Huaqing, formerly the senior general in the Chinese military, has been involved in Beijing's effort to acquire military-related technology.
The House committee began its inquiry in the spring after The New York Times had disclosed that American satellite makers had helped Chinese scientists rectify failures in their rocket programs, conveying information applicable to long-range ballistic missiles. Over the last six months, the panel held 33 hearings, all closed, taking testimony from intelligence officials, industry executives and nuclear-weapons experts.
The committee's inquiry initially focused on the interaction between China and the American manufacturers whose satellites were carried into orbit on Chinese rockets. It soon branched out to examine the export of other American technology to China, including advanced computers and machining equipment.
The panel hired outside experts to examine whether scientists from Hughes Electronics, a subsidiary of the General Motors Corporation, and Loral Space and Communications had harmed national security by giving the Chinese lessons in rocket technology after the failure of two Chinese rockets in the mid-1990's.
Both companies deny any wrongdoing, but earlier this month the Administration completed reports of its own that raised national security concerns about the assistance, especially help that Hughes provided the Chinese in 1995.
The intelligence arm of the State Department found that the 1995 "tutorial" by Hughes "resulted in significant improvement" to China's rocket program and that the lessons were "inherently applicable to their missile programs as well."
In a news conference at the Capitol today, members of the committee said their analysis had gone far beyond the reviews of the failed Chinese rocket launchings involving Hughes and Loral.
"There was harm in some of the transfers of technology that occurred," said the committee's ranking Democrat, Representative Norm Dicks of Washington, "but it's also fair to say this is not the only problem we uncovered. These are serious problems that must be addressed by the Administration and by the Congress."
It is public knowledge that the Chinese have an aggressive military and economic espionage program and that they have long sought to acquire American technology, legally and illegally.
But the House panel, formally the Select Committee on U.S. National Security and Military/Commercial Concerns With the People's Republic of China, learned new details about the depth and scope of these activities as it completed the most comprehensive examination of the issue ever conducted by any part of the American Government.
The witnesses before the panel included officials from American nuclear weapons laboratories, one witness said. Last year the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, issued a report that questioned the adequacy of security at the weapons labs, and touched on a decision during President Clinton's first term to reduce background checks of various foreign visitors there. (The visitors, most of whom are Russian and Chinese, are not allowed access to classified areas.)
It is unclear exactly how much the American public will ever learn about the committee's findings. The issue of what to disclose from a classified report is usually resolved by the release of general conclusions and the withholding of details that might reveal how the sensitive information was acquired.
Any process in which the report is ultimately declassified would involve the Clinton Administration, officials at various intelligence agencies like the C.I.A. and the House of Representatives.
"Certainly we look forward to reading the report and studying its recommendations," said David C. Leavy, a White House spokesman. "In terms of declassification, we need to work with the committee and relevant agencies in an appropriate way to move forward."
That the committee could find political unity in a year of divisive discourse was probably due to the serious national security concerns that were the panel's work.
Other than Mr. Cox and Mr. Dicks, the members of the committee were Representatives Curt Weldon of Pennsylvania, Porter J. Goss of Florida, James V. Hansen of Utah and Doug Bereuter of Nebraska, all Republicans, and John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, Robert C. Scott of Virginia and Lucille Roybal-Allard of California, Democrats.
Most of the members have been active in national security issues.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (83%); LORL (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: HUGHES ELECTRONICS CORP; LORAL SPACE AND COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTV (83%); LORAL CORP (57%); LORAL SPACE & COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (80%); REPUBLICAN OF CALIFORNIA (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUGHES ELECTRONICS CORP; LORAL SPACE AND COMMUNICATIONS CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (80%); REPUBLICAN OF CALIFORNIA (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MISSILES; SATELLITES; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); ROBBERY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); FUNDRAISING (60%); EXPORT CONTROLS (50%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF; SCHMITT, ERIC; COX, CHRISTOPHER (REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (77%); CHRISTOPHER COX (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



659 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 122 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
REPUBLIC BANCSHARES CUTS 340 JOBS

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Republic Bancshares Inc. said yesterday that it had dismissed 340 employees in its mortgage banking units, or 54 percent of its loan production staff, as part of a reorganization of the money-losing units. Republic, based in St. Petersburg, Fla., one of the largest Florida-based banks, said it would probably report an operating loss of $20 million in the fourth quarter, or $1.99 a basic share, about twice the size of the loss the company warned it would have a month ago. Republic also said it would take a $7.5 million pretax charge in the fourth quarter from the layoffs and associated costs. Prices for mortgage- and other asset-backed securities have fallen in recent months, which has led to losses for some lenders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: REPB (NASDAQ) (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC BANCSHARES INC (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); COMPANY LOSSES (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



660 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Keep Your Superstores

 BODY:

To the Editor:
A Dec. 26 news article about superstores in Yonkers paints a grim picture of anticipated traffic disruptions in Westchester, yet doesn't mention that Manhattan residents of Chelsea face a similar danger. 
 Costco has purchased a tract on 23d Street between 10th and 11th Avenues for the development of a superstore. There is no way to accommodate the delivery trucks and customers' cars and trucks such a store would attract.
This part of Chelsea is home to low-rise residences and numerous art galleries and is clogged with traffic from the Lincoln Tunnel. The long-awaited Waterside Park, with its associated street closings, will make the traffic situation worse.
If the Costco project is allowed to go forward, other tracts on the same block will also be candidates for superstore development. I hope the Giuliani administration will have the good sense to block the destruction of a neighborhood that has become a cultural and economic asset to the city.
 
CAVIN P. LEEMAN
New York, Dec. 27, 1998
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); 

PERSON: P LEEMAN NEW YORK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998



661 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Is Core Curriculum Outdated?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"Winds of Change Rustle University of Chicago" (front page, Dec. 28) reveals a delicious irony: The "winds of change" to dismantle the university's core curriculum blew out of the University of Chicago itself. 
 Chicago-school economists like Milton Freedman and Gary Becker devoted their careers to spreading the gospel of free markets. Markets, they promised, meant freedom.
Now, everyone is a consumer, and -- surprise -- the old bastions of culture and high standards, like the University of Chicago, flunk the market test. Who would have thought it? The culture of choice championed by Mr. Friedman and Mr. Becker now vexes the university they loved.
 
JAMES A. MORONE
Goshen, N.H., Dec. 28, 1998
 
The writer is a professor of politcal science at Brown University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (51%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (56%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (56%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CURRICULA (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CORE CURRICULUM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); 

PERSON: GARY BECKER (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998

 
